ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17364	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers of the Serbian Government, I believe that the issue of the budget is always one picture of how state affairs are managed, gentlemen. National MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, which we propose to delete, gentlemen, because we believe that reference to the National Assembly of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014 is one picture of poor governance of state affairs. I will try in seven minutes, Mr Becic, to explain to the MPs here, especially why I believe that this amendment should be accepted, and I hope that the MPs, after this argument that I will present, will conclude themselves in the day of voting that it is necessary to delete Article 1 and Article 2 and Article 3 and Article 4 of this Bill, but I am now focusing only on Article 1. Dear gentlemen, our basic question when we were thinking about this bill, when we analyzed its contents, was, and above all, I am focusing on our guests today in the Assembly, Minister Vujovic, when accessing the rebalancing. It is very important for me here to try to get to the point of accessing budget rebalancing on our amendment to Article 1. Two are basic conditions or two are opportunities that can be the basis, I believe, to approach budget rebalancing. One thing, Mr. Vujovicu, is that there is a serious crisis and in the environment, to say that there is an embargo, that there is a crisis like that from 1929 to 1933, so that, as a result of this severe crisis, we have to approach budget rebalancing or, respected gentlemen, we approach rebalancing when there is a manifest failure of budget creators. Since we don't have that kind of crisis around us now, one that would refer to what I mentioned earlier, it remains to be concluded that today, in December of the year, at the end of the year, we are rebalanced for the current year, so for 2014, because someone missed the estimates when he created the budget, gentlemen. If we agree that a terrible mistake was made when the 2014 budget was created, and we, gentlemen, discussed here two months ago, when we warned Mr Vujovic that it was not an appropriate approach even then in our debate, then the MPs, the respected colleagues, remain to conclude that this Serbian government, whose President, Mr Vučić, has wrongly created and assessed what is going to happen and has misprepared the budget. If that is the case, gentlemen, then the Serbian government should respond to such a kind of failure and that is one thing. The second thing, Mr Vujovicu, when we last talked here two months ago about the first rebalancing, because this is the second in this year, we then told you, dear Mr Vujovic, that the budget should not be made for the morning to noon. Budget isn't any kind of law, gentlemen. He's got to be valid for a whole year. We can't change him when we want to, when there's someone else's whim, so he can say, "Let's change the Budget Law." I repeat, if we do this, it's a picture of a poor management of state affairs. Look, not only that, but when we talked about this as one argument in principle for two days, why can't we talk about another rebalancing in this way, we got an answer from the Prime Minister, gentlemen, that if necessary, if that's the case, next year we'll have four, five rebalances. Dear gentlemen, this is an incredibly unserious approach. Here, respected Mr Vujovic, it was called for the praise of certain ambassadors, certain international organisations, to be mentioned that the German ambassador, for example. There are only words of praise, but Mr. Vujovic, so I believe that you know when and how many times in the last 20 years, for example. a budget rebalance took place in Germany. I'd like to hear the answer to that question, so let's see if it's possible for the only one to change the budget over one year, not three, four, five times or this year, as we can see, twice. The third argument, gentlemen, and it is very important for me to agree with the MPs on this matter, regarding the importance and meaning of the Budget Law, gentlemen. I also mentioned it here in the principle debate, which is important to us, Article 99. The Serbian Constitution speaks of how important the Budget Law is for our country. Here we have one approach to the executive authority, which completely ignores that kind of importance of this bill. If it changes at any moment, every two months or as it announces itself for the next year, four or five times the Budget Act, it is for me, gentlemen, a sign of one incompetence of the people involved in managing the state affairs and this for us, and this debate today and two days ago, it should be one alarm to wake up here, to see who we are dealing with here, and not to allow, above all, us MPs, to violate the principle of rule of law, without which there is no reform in our country, to harm the Constitution, and above all, honored gentlemen, the dignity of the National Assembly, I repeat once again, as the central political institutions in our political system, and call on MPs to vote for the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17365	Time. Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17366	There's only one thing I can agree with, only one sentence I can agree with, and that's to see, ladies and gentlemen, who we're dealing with here. With whom we are dealing here, we saw a few days ago when a colleague of Zivkovic, one of the proposings of this amendment, primarily, Mr. Chairman, and in this way all the MPs, and in this way all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, called you "stom". Then we saw, then all the people in Serbia saw who they were dealing with and what was the responsibility of the DS that brought such people into the National Assembly and gave them the right and opportunity to insult the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to insult the dignity of the National Assembly, calling the National Assembly, the citizens of Serbia, all of us MPs, Mr. Chairman of you "stom". That's something I'm going to agree with Mr. Amendment Proposer that we've seen who we're dealing with. On the other hand, the deficit of the budget is the pain many states are struggling with. The goal is to reduce budget deficits, the goal is to think about years in the future, the surplus, the better economy, the higher inflows, the lower costs, and now we are exposed here to criticism by both Mr Vujovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has reduced the budget deficit by about 1%, Mr Vujovic, I don't think I'm wrong. Now, for the measures that would have given recognition in all regulated countries, said - bravo people, reduced expenditures, increased revenues, increased taxes on fuel, on cut tobacco, a fiscal policy that is stricter, better control, the fight against the gray economy, higher revenues, higher revenues, reduced costs, you have achieved savings. With that savings, I'll remind the amendment's proposings, remind all of you, they've been paid back, they've been deposited subsidies to agricultural producers. In this way and not in a small amount, 4,033,000,000 dinars, in this way, with this discussion, such amendments, the same ones who call us "stock" were against those hardworking people, who still today have no time to look at us, are now in the field and in the barn, to get that money. With these amendments, you have against these people, against the agricultural producers, because against the government that had higher incomes, less expenditure, which has achieved these funds and given it to those to whom it owed, but not by its own free will, you have owed because of those who have put you on the list, who have brought you into parliament, who have allowed you to give MPs, to call the National Assembly, to the citizens of Serbia "stom". And not only for agricultural producers, these funds, that 1% of the deficit, which is due to which this Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr Vujovic, as finance minister, receive recognition from international institutions, and I can see that now those international institutions are not only good because they praise and only because they recognise positive measures and everything that makes you the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Suddenly, the IMF is not good, because it's not ugly, it's not critical, it's commendable. Neither the Fiscal Council is good nor the Embassy of Germany is good nor Germany is no good, no one is good who recognizes quality and who recognizes energy and who recognizes the courage in this Government of the Republic of Serbia to implement and do what is necessary and what you screw up. Now, I am asking you and this could enter the textbooks of parliamentaryism, but even more in the textbooks of some economic policy, to criticise the government that has reduced the deficit, to criticise the government that has made savings, to criticise the government that has increased revenues, but not by increasing taxes, but by increasing fiscal policy, by collecting excises, by fighting the gray economy, to criticise the government for doing its job and criticising the state for showing the strength and order of the state, to criticise the government that pays back the debts you left, and now to make debts, and then say – why do you pay them, why did you reduce the deficit? Of course, next year, we'll have at least one monthly budget rebalance, but for this reason. It didn't bother you in 2010 when the rebalancing was made on December 29th, it didn't bother you, but not because the deficit was reduced, but because the expenditures were increased, and the reduced revenues went totally the other way. You didn't mind at the time. That was a good thing back then, and now you're bothered by the deficit reduction. It doesn't exist in logic, except in the political hatred that leads you now and that led you the other night when you called us "stom". You are against agricultural producers whose four billion this government of the Republic of Serbia has paid what you have remained in their debt. You are opposed to the reconciliation of the accumulated obligations of senior courts, of basic courts, of art, of lawyers under official duty. Two billion and 756 million dinars of your commitments have been paid, your debts for which you criticise this Serbian government for paying off your obligations. The reconciliation of the obligations of the MUP to its unpaid employees, lagging jubilee awards. And that's what bothers you, 1,688,000,000 million dinars, more revenue than taxes on fuel and tobacco, higher income and VAT collection, fiscal discipline, all that the state is. You are opposed to paying additional funds to the Ministry of Labour for Social Programmes, additional funds to the Ministry of Finance for 50 million dinars for other expenses and debts. Can someone who has sworn here on Serbia's constitution to protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and so much for political hatred being against the citizens of Serbia, say so much because of political hatred, that this government is insecure because it reduces the deficit, and that government you supported and helped enter parliament has increased the deficit instead of reducing it? You supported the government since 2008, and in 2008 it has been in the 2008 budget for 200m euros for interest. Keep your head down, but the numbers are immeasurable. Two hundred million euros in 2008 and in 2015 1,200,000 euros for interest only. You're worried about the fate of the educators. It's not an address for the Educational Workers of the Germans, nor the Government of the RS. The address for protesting educational workers, which I understand deeply, is Banovina in Novi Sad, Krunska Street, DS headquarters. What we have to pay off next year alone on interest is 3.5% of GDP. More than single-outs for both primary and secondary and higher education. There you go, gentlemen, educational workers, who ate your future, who ate your wages. What's done? Debts, yes. Where are the new values? What have you done with all this? Which roads, which infrastructure, what jobs, what was made? You're also counting on investment, taking over a private company from a private company. Direct investment - sales of Miskovic's assets. How is it possible that so many foreign investments from 2008 to 2012, instead of... Foreign investment is directly proportional to the number of jobs, and we have reportedly already had investments, and 400,000 people are out of work. I can't understand that. No sane man can understand that. Therefore, the RS government has all the support of both parliament and SNS. Continue to reduce the deficit, continue to implement the difficult measures that have been imposed on us, and this sort of thing I think will enter the textbooks of poor parliamentary practice, that it will enter the textbooks, I don't know what to call them, from the economy to criticise the government that has reduced the deficit instead of getting the applause and reward it deserves.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17367	Thank you, Mr. Granny. You'll get a replica, Mr. Pavicevic, although I could say that he was addressing the amendment's promoters, and there are more promoters, you're not the only one. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers of the Serbian Government and the Honorable Guests of various Serbian Government ministries, it is necessary, I think, to respond to, in my court now, an inappropriate performance by Mr. Babic, Mr. Becic, a respected Mr. Becic. In his speech, Mr. Babic, about a dozen minutes here, mentioned hate, various terms that could be associations of hatred. He mentioned that I used to be in power. He spoke to me as a proponent of this amendment. He mentioned that I was responsible for some of the previous governments' budgets here, gentlemen. He mentioned the situation in Banovina and tied it to me, gentlemen, and I have to say here now. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I believe that there are no citizens in our country who do not know that I have never been in any government, in any government, and for the first time when I have the opportunity to represent the interests of citizens, and I do, I think, with a single focus on the common good, is now participation as a MP in this assembly of the National Assembly. This means, gentlemen, that Mr. Babic is not about the objections or arguments we offer for the adoption of amendments to Article 1 of this proposal of the law, but Mr. Babic is concerned with all other matters. What's important to us here, gentlemen, about this amendment of ours? It is important for us to say that it is heard by the MPs, heard by Minister Vujovic and other ministers, that all Serbian citizens know that the picture of the adoption of amendments to the law in the budget is a picture of a government that does not know what it wants, respected Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17369	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. If you would listen more carefully, you would hear that I had previously said that the promoters of the same amendments were members of 1,30 MPs, so that Mr Babic spoke to the amendment promoters, although you recognize yourself in every sentence by Mr Babic, I think you are wrong. Here you go, Mr. Babic's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17370	Mr. Pavicevic, you have not been chosen by name and last name anywhere, but you have been selected by list and on the DS list. You have been elected on a list whose leader today, raping democracy, retains power in the same Banovina, is sitting in Banovina, retaining power in Vojvodina with 6% support. You were on a list in which the former party president left the debt and left the deficit of the Belgrade City budget at 20.5%. History does not remember such an economic gromada and such a policy where you leave the City of Belgrade worse than Detroit, 20.5% of the deficit, and then it did not bother you, but it also bothers you to come to parliament and to the chairman, to call the National Assembly, to call all citizens of RS "stom". You didn't mind Belgrade's 20.5% deficit. You don't mind raping democracy of 6% support in Vojvodina and holding on to full power. It doesn't bother you, it's okay, it's democratic, it's right, and when the government reduces the deficit, when the government does its job, when the government gets support from both the IMF and the embassy and from all the states, that's what bothers you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17371	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, as an amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17372	Thank you, honourable chairman, gentlemen ministers, we have submitted this amendment in order to save this government from ourselves, but as Minister Vujovic said, the rebalancing process is being carried out in order to bring expenditures into line with those elements of achievements that could not be predicted. I don't know what could not have been predicted in October, and now you can see, but we heard some of it in the debate. And what doesn't stand anywhere, not in the rebalancing, nor in the reasons for refusing this amendment, is what we're talking about here, which is that some of the savings were made in the budget. There's no savings in the budget. In an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, you wrote – measures implemented on the dispensary side – related to the reduction of expenditure and expenditure estimated not to be implemented in the planned amount by the end of the year. There's no increase in rebalancing income. There's no saving. There's only one thing you haven't been able to spend. What you didn't get to spend, because you couldn't plan well, because you have a bad law on public procurement, so you can't buy a gamma knife for a year and then say we didn't spend a billion dinars. You didn't save anything. Does that mean that the gamma knife won't be bought next year? Does it mean you take a billion off the expropriation, and next year you won't pay for that expropriation, or you couldn't make it because of the slow administration and spend that money this year? The Minister said, 300 million for agriculture, we're not here. We didn't have time to spend, there were floods, there were public procurements. You haven't had time to spend. Look what the Minister said two days ago. You didn't save any of this. You didn't spend the money. You didn't plan your budget well, and there's no savings. No revenue increases, and don't tell that story. It's not in this paper. Nowhere. Does the rebalancing revenue side increase? No, I don't. Where is this increase in excise and tax charges in this rebalancing? Nowhere. Where's the deficit reduction? Nowhere. There are 225 billion deficits left for 2014. You didn't reduce that with this rebalancing. You didn't touch that. You said it yourself. Money that hasn't been spent, it says here, in the planned amount, is being transferred for some other purpose. There's no planned deficit reduction anywhere. Finally, there's no 225 billion there. Show me that member who's changing it and who's regulating it, so we'll give up our amendments, and don't say what doesn't stand here in the papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17373	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not all the way that the proposers of this amendment say it, because to review the 2014 Budget Law would know that in one part of the law it writes – if more revenue is made in the tax and excise budget, the deficit will be reduced and it does not need to stand in this rebalancing. That's what the 2015 Budget Act also says. It's in all budget laws. If they had read them, they would have known, and not only had they written the amendments, they were deleted. The second thing, the Public Procurement Act, which is also mentioned and which is well implemented in the Budget, Amendments and Supplements of the 2014 Budget Law. As this was before the entry into force of this law on public procurement proposed by the SNS parliamentary group, this Assembly adopted. Before the law was passed, 45% of public procurement was carried out in a negotiating process, and the negotiation process was to sit down and agree on how much public works would cost and defend the applicants of this amendment. They say -- that's great, because we had such a law on public procurement brought by applicants of these amendments. We had a budget rebalance which increased public debt and which they proposed. That's when it could have been, that was normal. I cannot understand that someone for what is good for the citizens of Serbia, which is good for the state of Serbia criticises. I can't understand fellow MPs like that. I could understand that they expected the results to be better, that they expected more from this government, but that whatever this government does, and it's good for the citizens and the state, comes across a knife of criticism. I can't figure that out. The same is the second part of the amendment that says it has never participated in the government of the Republic of Serbia. We don't choose parents, we don't choose relatives, but we choose society. He was on the list of those who brought Serbia into such a situation that in 2014 we are now paying subsidies in agriculture generated in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, because my God, it had to be stolen at that time on public procurement, not to pay off agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17375	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17376	Thank you, Chairman. You know, a journal today wrote that the Assembly is a cattle market. A daily paper published today, of course, I'll link it to the amendment, don't worry, the statement by whoever here gave that cattle one a treasure. I ask the citizens of Serbia to check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17377	Ambassador, please let us go back to the amendment, precisely because of this situation that is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17378	That's exactly why I'm talking. These financial geniuses, which are our public enterprises that had a monopoly character, led to a minus. I'd like some financial genius to explain to me how the EPS could be down, and it was under their control. Those who have pumped 50 and some billion euros for 10 years from Serbia to the "of short" company and who knows where, they are today complaining to this government with a budget like this showing that the state has saved some money and is paying back their debts. We have to listen to that. Otherwise, it is not done by chance by the respected chairman, they are not interested in the answer. There's no such thing as good news here. No one will say that this government has opened 9,000 new jobs, through various companies that have come here to invest. Mr. Stefanovic listed them here. No one will say that reduced employment was compared to the period when they were in power. No one's going to say that our tax returns are never better, and their financial geniuses in the IRS have committed such a crime that we've had a scandal from the gray economy. They left us a state without any resources, but they're not interested in the answer. They're just interested in hitting on topics and not getting any answers, to create an anarchical state in society, that nothing is right. That's the whole point of this story. You can give them a hundred arguments and say, wait for the people of this "Er Serbia" to make a profit today, it's a JAT debt that we pay here. This Iron, well, you left it in our debt, you boasted that for one dollar you took over Gilesara, but with all those debts left by that American company. But that's not worth it, that's what nobody's gonna hear, it's important to throw and throw topics and create constant chaos. I love educators the most in the world, those are the people who teach our children. I believe that a huge number of them realizes that dry drenina can't drain anything, but someone here deliberately makes these strikes in a situation where students' grades are to be concluded, in order to trigger both their parents and their students. On this strike, education workers are not wearing some pay parol, but – revolution is the only solution. So what do you want to do, make us revolutions if you tell us that—the cattle, the treasure, are you willing to set fire to the congregation again, you want to beat us? Of course, all the texts relativize it, and we're all pretty much guilty of being told that we're cattle. It's not everyone's fault, it's the cattle that said the one across the street. He's still telling us it was a treasure. I'm sorry, I'm not going to agree to this, this government, this country has done something. If someone wants to cause chaos, permanent and to tell us that absolutely nothing is right, and all economic indicators show something quite different, and all international institutions say that it is growing, excuse me, it would be a turn for them to have to answer and to be told that what they are doing is wrong. I hope that the citizens of Serbia will absolutely recognise it on Sundays both in Mionica and in Luciani. I think that result will really be such that some of them will really hurt their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17379	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17380	Here, I'll try to say basic thoughts in two minutes. With today based on revenue and budget expenditure, the deficit is 161 billion dinars. By the end of the year, there was, as you know, seven, eight... With today's day, sir, I'm showing you the numbers from the vault, the achievement of the budget is 161 billion. Now I'm going to tell you the number, which is behind it. Don't take my time with your gestures, please. I never do that to you. So VAT 10 billion more, 408, or 398 planned, excises 10 billion less without a last payment, which we expect will be greater than 10 billion since it is usually overpayments in December, due to the translation of excise duties from the warehouse, due to the expected increase in excise rates according to the laws previously passed. Customs -- one billion more, citizen income tax -- one billion more, other taxes -- 0.3 more. We target 100% of the expected revenues despite the low dynamics and the nominal and real growth of the social product that we have planned in the rebalancing process, which you have not failed to emphasize in every discussion in everything else. Therefore, although we have a problem with economic growth, even though we have a problem with the growth of the tax base, we have achieved a better tax charge equal to the result, which in every economic analysis is a real increase, when it is controlled for elements that we do not control, or for elements that are not influenced by government, we have achieved greater income. On the side of expenditure – we have less expenditure on salaries 7 billion, on goods and services 9 billion, which was the goal. What we've accomplished more, it's a confirmation of that goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17381	Time, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17382	At the interest of three billion, I have to read the numbers to the end, subsidies three billion, transfers to local authorities five billion, social 16, all together 48, plus 15 billion out of 48...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17383	Time, for the duration of the session to be planned, we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, all of us today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17384	... 63 billion with savings...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17385	Thank you, Minister, really, please don't let us get into a situation...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17386	... So, we're planning to transfer out of 10 billion from savings to paying off old liabilities, like I said...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17387	Minister, thank you. I have to tell you, the rules of the Rules of Procedure two minutes per amendment, just once, you have three hours in total. The MPs are also limited. I really need to take care of the weather, to do a big agenda like this. I'm sorry, it's not an evil intention, but it has to be. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17388	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a great untruth has been expressed here by the proponents, the esteemed proponents, which reads roughly – that this budget rebalancing has damaged the dignity of the citizens. Now aside from the fact that one of the amendment's proposings was the former prime minister, what the like amendment had given, i.e. in the same text, some others, who ruled the country and charged so much that we had in three years to pay 401 billion just interest, on debts left by the former government. So, they keep saying that debt, if we return it nominally, should be reduced, but they forget the price of capital -- interest that in the last three, four years since 2012, since the change of government, was 401 billion 263 million and 065 000. So, so much new power had to set aside to repay the interest on the debts that remained for the former regime. So debt is one thing, you borrow 100 euros and you pay back 100 euros, so they represent it to the public. If you're in charge of paying back our debt, if you're in debt 100 euros, then you should have paid back 100 euros of our debt, for so much debt to be reduced. In doing so, you forgot the price of capital, given that they do not know how money is made, but only as it is spent, they forgot the price of capital called interest and for which it was to be allocated in the previous three years since 2012, in the middle, together with this projection of the 2015 budget, it took 401 billion dinars. It is 3.5 billion euros and of course there are some other items called debts. These debts, say JAT's debts due for payment, debts to farmers who were not paid for 2011 at the time of 2012 at 8 billion. They forgot all this and now the Assembly and the Government, which repay the debts and interest they have made to pay even during the former regime, those who pay back JAT's debts, those who repay their debts to farmers are not worthy. I think that the amendment promoter should think about its amendments, given that if we were adopted in the budget rebalancing of farmers, or all the other debts that are due to be paid to a member, it would be roughly like this – if, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, if we adopt this change from the savings to be paid, of course, from the budget to the citizens, again towards consumption, that they would buy something again and re-charging the budget... Therefore, respected citizens from this savings that the Government has achieved, which it has purposed to pay their debts to its citizens, would have saved from this saving by adopting an amendment of respected fellow Members, would have given citizens this, and all those trusts to which the state owes would have received nothing. So, that's a proposal of distinguished promoters, and I think the qualifications that Mr. Babic and Mr. Arsic have said are very mild, and I totally agree with them, and I think what the parents said earlier -- choose society, don't let society choose you. This applies to one of these two recognised promoters of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17389	The word is Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment is a mistake and that is why it should not be accepted. I think the colleague who explained the amendment was wrong. It was seen in the Minister's presentation, but, you know, making a mistake in politics isn't the same as being a cook, so you make a mistake and put sugar in the soup instead of salt, so it spills and let's do it again. You know, when a politician makes mistakes, wars and people die. When a politician is wrong, there is a wrong economy in the country, so we have recessions, so we have a bad economic situation, so we have borrowings, and then someone else has to adopt a budget in which he has to predict a billion and 100m euros just to pay back interest on the loans raised by a politician who has sinned. A prominent fellow who is proposing this amendment is a member of the party whose president has recently been elected president of the party for the second time, let's say Tadic's party, has one name and another name, etc. Even at the Assembly, Mr Tadic said he was wrong. A few days ago, I was watching him on TV and he said he was wrong. You know, it's one thing for you, I repeat, to make mistakes and to bear the consequences of your mistake your family or yourself, but when someone who runs the state is wrong, then we have the consequences that we have a greater number of unemployment, so in four years, 400,000 people lose their jobs, so today we have to have measures because someone didn't want to react while he was in power, so he didn't want to react or know in 2008, so today the salaries and pensions of the public sector employees in Serbia by 10% are shrinking. So Serbia no longer has time or luxury to suffer someone's mistakes. Thank God, we now have a government that corrects those mistakes, but it also works to make it better in the next period. So this amendment, which is a mistake, of course, that we must refuse and we should not accept it and it will not be accepted by MPs who are members of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17391	The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17392	Replica, direct reference to the name of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17393	Ambassador, just a minute. You've raised the Rules of Procedure and you've been looking for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17394	Let me draw attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17395	Don't distract me, I'm very careful. So, by cheating you came up with a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17396	Don't do that. I would never do that, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17397	That's right. You have raised the Rules of Procedure and deceived the chairman to give you the advantage of the Rules of Procedure. Replica, if you're looking for a replica, means the chairman is assessing whether he'll give you his word. Have a seat and report for the replica. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. ( ) On what basis, since the MP delivered his opinion and also mentioned the name of your president and nothing more? (Marko Djurisic, from this point on: It was offensively expressed. ) He has not spoken offensively about you or your party or the President. He stated the facts as well as your opinions on other parties. Is that right? You can't get a replica. [[(Marco Djurisic, from the place: I don't know, don't give me the replica.) Can't I get a replica?)]] You called to discuss the amendment. You will be waiting for Gordana Komic, so you will get your word when the second round where the same MPs who already spoke about the amendment came forward. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17398	Thank you. I'd like to use two minutes for being an amendment bearer, if that's okay? Yes, thank you. The amendment that I propose that the Assembly remove all members of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014 has the same reasons for which we find the confirmation in what the minister was talking about, with a small digression, as the minister claimed to be not a politician. You know, if you get a job because of politics, if you do a job by making political decisions, if you have to agree to a basic strategy and a policy plan and if it's all like a politician, then you're a politician. That would be good if we all understood as soon as possible, because it's good for everyone. In a rebalancing which is called technical, I do not know why and how, but well, which, in essence, according to the minister, will be valid for seven days because it applies the Budget Act for 2014 and, seeing the revenues from VAT and excise, you do not need a rebalancing. You have a member in the budget, which I want to delete, and in the 2015 budget, which I wanted to delete in every previous budget because I find it completely inappropriate to put a member in the Budget Law – if something happens then it will be arranged anyway. This is a serious blow to the authority of the National Assembly, since the allocation of funds must be decided exclusively by the National Assembly. So, superficiality and indifference, common and completely understandable. That's not what I'm saying as a criticism, that's a description of the situation. The budget cycle, the fiscal cycle in Serbia, has been going on for about 90 to 105 days for 15 years, and you as a politician are hardly going to make any serious changes, but that is no reason not to hear what can be done to reduce this indifference and superficiality of the budget promoter, whoever you are, and that is why you are a politician. It intends that, apart from the existing Budget Act for 2014, the surplus of VAT and excise duties is allocated to reduce deficits, it is your intention to change positions. It's rebalancing, but it's rebalancing. It does not look like what changes and additions to the Budget Law normally look like, and in a few it differs from the proposal that you published on the Ministry of Finance's website, but well. It is your absolute will that the positions within the budget are not well planned either by the Budget Law or by the Rebalance of the Budget Law and that you endure another rebalance, but it is your obligation because you are a politician to instead join as a minister the general position that it is good to defend the successes of this Government by saying "in opposition", to discuss the way the rebalancing was made, the reasons why the rebalancing was made and your right to propose it as such. And in the Budget Law, I reiterated what I gave as an explanation for eradicating the provisions on rebalancing, and that is why I call on you to talk seriously about it, because yelling "in the opposition" will not benefit either for your successes as a politician or for understanding of all those who are looking at what we are really about when the amending and supplementing the 2014 Budget Act is at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17399	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17400	Thank you, Madam President. There were some things out here that weren't really based on reality, they were cheerleaders, they were such that they had nothing to do with the truth. I would very much like to share this with my colleagues, and these are charts that Mr. Vukic showed a few days ago and instead of all as a country that we are looking forward to, that during the January-November period, the excise income for oil derivatives was 8% higher than in the same period in 2013, although there is no significant increase in consumption, that the excise duty on tobacco processing in continuity was higher than the performance of the same period in 2013, that is the next graph, and by over three billion dinars, that total VAT collection in October and November recorded record results in 2014, and at the level of the year, are higher and better VAT collection results, on the one hand. I do not see any reasonable explanation that the state doing its job, which conducts a strict fiscal policy, which fights the gray economy, which does the things that are necessary to do, whose results show up on these charts that Mr. Vukic also showed two days ago, which I have, which are also available to the public. I don't know why it irritates someone in this room and who's lurking in front of that data, who's turning his head, who's sticking his head in the sand in front of that data. True, on the other hand, that's where Mr. Vujovic managed to show where the state was saving, but I'll show you how someone can not save. In economic classification 422, the 2015 Budget Law for Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic envisions two million and 700 dinars for the whole year, two million and 700 thousand dinars. However, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, according to the AP Vojvodina budget, which was adopted yesterday in that same bank, where educational workers should seek their salary and where the citizens of Vojvodina should seek all those lost places and lost perspectives, the budget was adopted, so we have the same economic classification 422 and that for the president of the AP Vojvodina with 6% support for Mr Pajtic. For Mr Pajtic, the DS president and the party that left Belgrade with a 20.5% deficit, scheduled for 15 million and 200,000 dinar trips, six times the budget for 2015 for Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic's travels, six times the cost. I ask – what kind of ticks will it go to, and we have seen Mr. Pajkic visit such pigs? Where will it go for 15 million and 200,000 dinars? What's he gonna do about it? Six times more, not by 6%, not by 60%, six times more than you predicted in Mr Vujovic's budget, which I am sure will be adopted today in the National Assembly of Serbia. These are savings that DS never could predict or implement.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17401	The word is from the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17402	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens, we have been considering the first amendment on budget rebalancing for an hour now. Two days ago, in a 16-hour general debate, I was present almost 100% and I can say that the opposition, or members of the former regime, did not make any real argument that would challenge both this rebalancing and the budget, which will be discussed a little later. The budget rebalancing is simply a correction of the budget and, simply, by law and Constitution and economic theories is envisaged and I do not know why someone is challenging the budget rebalancing which, in this case, is a necessary measure for every praise, both the Ministry and the Government. Whatever someone's talking about, this budget rebalance wants to pay back the debts that have accumulated for many years and that no one has ever taken care of, or taken care of, the government in the previous period. It returns to positions of two billion and 76 million only in debt to courts, where, among other things, the repayment of obligations accumulated for court-laws, for all those costs incurred by courts and which have been simply put aside for a number of years, as if no one would ever pay for it, the task of Serbia's MUP to Telecom, according to the EPS, which amounts to 700 million dinars and other costs. It was just like there was no payment obligation, and someone had to pay for it. Here, in the end, pays this government and through this government they pay the citizens. Whatever you're talking about, this rebalancing is due to the increased revenue side. The future side only in the VAT area has been increased by 10 billion and these are figures that no one can dispute and I don't know why they're trying to challenge something that's obvious and can be found on all the sites of the Ministry of Economy? What is most important, this is certainly not a political decision, and I agree with my colleague, Komic, only in part that the budget, the direction of funds, should be decided by the National Assembly and this particular budget rebalance and is here, so that the right of the National Assembly is applied in practice. The amendment, which states to delete this kind of budget rebalancing, is so unserious that it speaks for itself and the proposings enough, as well as the challenge of this member and this kind of budget rebalance. Of course this amendment must be rejected and it will refuse, that's for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17403	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17404	I ask you to count this time as the time of the president of the parliamentary group and that time more, when I first called, to count from that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17405	I didn't understand you?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17406	As president of the parliamentary group, and for the first time I spoke for three and a half minutes, then those minutes and a half more. Thank you. I have not heard from anyone, nor from the Minister, where in this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the 2014 Budget Law, the revenue side is changed? There's no such thing in the law. That's why I've been showing you ministers. You've been telling us some numbers. I can trust you now, or I don't trust you, and that's the only way I can treat them, because it's nowhere on paper. I can't see those reports from the vault anywhere. There are only you and the MPs of the ruling parties. You didn't give us that. I'll trust you this time. But I'm talking about the law we need to adopt today. You can't see that difference on the receiving side. You can't see the savings. You wrote – spending is reduced which has been estimated not to be executed in the planned amount by the end of the year. You didn't say – we saved up somewhere or increased our incomes, so now we'll plan our expenses differently. You didn't say that. That's not what I'm talking about here. You have now said – VAT 10 billion dinars will be charged more than planned for the 2014 budget. Already charged. That's good. I'm glad to hear that. But then I ask you a question: given that VAT is practically only one billion more in the 2015 budget compared to 2014, it means that you had a bad plan again. You know that well. A good budget is the one that's real and well-planned. And you just said it yourself, obviously you weren't planning it well. Because if about 410 billion of VAT was charged this year, you planned 399 billion with the 2015 budget. It means it'll be less charged in 2015. I doubt there will be less, only because of inflation there will be more VAT than it was in 2014, or otherwise we will have a dramatic decline in consumption, and that is likely to happen because of the measures that cut wages and pensions. But I'm telling you what we're discussing today, and what it says in these papers. It doesn't say anything about an increase in VAT collection, nothing about an increase in excise charges. All it says is that the money that's been misplanned and not spent this year is now going to be spent on something else. And that's the only truth. If you want, change this bill, put it there that you have charged more and that you will spend different funds in the 2014 budget. That's all I want from you -- let's hear here that it wasn't well planned, to hear from you whether a gamma knife will be bought next year for that billion dinars, as much as it wasn't spent this year, is the expropriation going to be paid in the amount of a billion dinars that haven't been paid this year? I want to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17407	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17408	Thank you, Madam President. So, I would like to invite all together, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, as well as all such amendments, and those which have been handed down specifically by this member in the same form by several groups of distinguished colleagues, but also those relating to other members of this law, and yet in the same form, not only to each other, but also to this one, we certainly reject. For what reason? First of all, the reasons for eradicating a member or any other member, as we were able to hear today in particular, are very general, very principled and come down to everything we've already had the opportunity to listen to at a session that lasted 16 hours here. Thus, it comes down to what is likely to be shown in some of the written arguments, to the proposal that the law be rejected as a whole. Thus, the answer must be of the same nature. Therefore, the answer must be based on the motivation to accept the law fully and thus to preserve each member. I would point out that, with everything we've been able to hear today, we haven't heard any fundamental reason why we should reject the law in general, why we should delete this or any of its members. We have heard that there are objections to the procedure, we have heard that there are objections to the arguments given orally, which by the respected ministers, which by other fellow Members of the People's Parliament, but have we heard one single reason why we shouldn't do the rebalancing in the proposed way? We're not either. Did we hear one reason why we shouldn't do a recalculation in the sense that funds for expenditures and expenditures should be released that won't be realised? We didn't. We heard an objection to whether such a thing could or could not have been foreseen in October of the month. Here, I have to say it again, of course it couldn't. No one could have predicted that, and what proof is that? So the fact that the colleagues themselves on the opposite side of the hall, the amendments themselves, in October of the month, did not in any way intervene in terms of a grudge – expenditures and expenditures will not be like that, and we were all able to hear together, to testify that they had their own ideas that certain things should be organized through the rebalancing process, so that some resources should be defined for new, other things. They were thinking that way. Then we didn't hear a single comment. No, guys, that's possible. How is that possible? So that your expenses and expenses will not be as planned. Is that proof that no one in the O.R. predicted things? Yeah, I've got enough evidence on my own. We haven't heard a single argument as to why funds, funds and expenditures should thus be released, should not be used for things that are undeniably good. For example, to resuscitate court duties, e.g. for agricultural subsidies, e.g. for further resolving the status of workers in restructure enterprises, etc. We talked about it a lot today. Not a single argument why we shouldn't do that. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not surprised we didn't hear him. We haven't heard from him for the simple reason that there is no such argument. If this is all the same and if the full story needs to be aware of the general political story and we have no reason not to act in the new structure of the budget in the way it is proposed, I will be free to suggest that we forget what we have as an argument to reject the law and today hear, to think again, to draw the line and honestly say that this deserves to be done the way it is proposed. That's why this amendment, once again, and like this today, we certainly refuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17409	Thank you. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Živković and Vladimir Pavićevic, joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Ivan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Šutanovac, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović and Aida Ćorović and joint MPs Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snežana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word wants Dr Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17410	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable ministers of other ministries, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, as a member of the party Together for Serbia and a member of our SDS parliamentary group – Green Serbia, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I insist and appeal to the MPs to accept this amendment, and I will briefly explain to the citizens of Serbia why I disagree with the proposed law that goes to rebalancing two months ago in 2014. In fact, here we have heard from the motionors in the principle debate, and in today's debate that there has been a huge budget savings report, that this money should be activated before the end of the year, and it is normal that they will activate where they can only activate, and that is to pay the debts. So any investment, any more serious interventions in the placement of that money, is impossible to do ten days before the end of the financial year. It's only possible to pay old debts. Whose debts I don't know, but I know that this government, this congregation majority has had six budgets so far, which budgets, which rebalance, if that's four years ago, I accept, but I don't know why you haven't solved it yet, but you're solving it now. But that's not the point. The theme is this rebalancing. Mr. Minister said a huge budget savings was made, which is absolutely not true. That's not true. We have a budget failure here. Excess money in the appraisals that were defined at the end of 2013 when the budget was adopted, it failed to be realised, which is the inability of the administration and that money should now be placed in order not to fail. It won't fail, but it will activate differently, which now I don't have enough time to explain. What's interesting is that everything that could have been done with the rebalancing of two months ago was then said to be realized and that it was something that was a great and developmental component. I don't see a developmental component in this rebalancing. You're downgraded here where there's supposed to be a realisation of that development, that's, say, agriculture. You didn't activate 300 million dinars. What's developmental? There's no development here. You failed to make public procurement at the Ministry of Health. Is that a development? It's not a development, dear friends. What is the problem, it is the inability to create new jobs for this assembly majority and government and not to strengthen the income side of the budget. It's not a problem at the expense. They need to be rationalized, but they need to be reduced to a minimum, but below a certain quota, below a certain level, you can no longer reduce expenditure. The problem is, you need to deal with incomes. These expenditures would not be a problem in the Republic of Serbia if the income side were the right one, and we are talking about saving where we have imbalances, where we have a lack of money of two billion euros. What kind of black savings? Saving is when you have enough income, you realize all budget positions and skip the money. If you did that, and we'll see it through the final bill, then I'll say, well done, Minister, well done, Vlado, you've managed to save. This is a budget unrealization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17411	The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Guests, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have tabled an amendment proposing to Members of the People to delete Article 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014. We have, in reason, offered one position, here in one sentence to say, and two additional arguments. We wrote that we believe that it is not appropriate to discuss the draft amending and supplementing the 2014 Budget Law, including amendments provided for in Article 2 of this Bill, at this session of the National Assembly. We, gentlemen, have offered two additional arguments to accept our amendment. In the first argument, we say, Mr Vujovicu, the second rebalancing in less than two months is a signal that there are systemic shortcomings in the planning and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget. No rebalance, no rebalance, no rebalance, no rebalancing, no rebalancing will solve the issue of these systemic shortcomings in budget planning and realisation. The second thing, we considered the following – when at the end of the year we proposed this rebalancing that we had two months ago, it was then for us, gentlemen, one sign that we are dealing in an amateur way with the most important issues in our country, and the Budget Law is, respected to Mr Vujovic, as in the Constitution in Article 99 says, one of the most important of our laws. We believe that behind this approach, there is one authority behind this way, Mr. Vujovic, and you are part of that authority, which does not know what it wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17413	You've wasted your time. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17414	Thank you. The amendment proposes, of course, to remove Article 2 from the text of the law by deleting it with the same explanation. So, when the minister explains why the amending and supplementing the 2014 Budget Act is good, the minister says – it's great that we have more income that, under the Budget Law, if they're from excises, we have to put in a deficit, and now it's even better to see that we haven't made a good decision on what we're going to spend on budget rebalance for 2014 and the 2014 budget. That's the essence of the rebalancing. Wait, we didn't make a good decision about this position for this purpose how much we're going to spend, so we're going to look for it because we've remembered it better now. That's why I'm putting up with these amendments because I think it's a traditional surface and indifference for many different reasons, for which responsibility is not borne by this government. I can read very well and see what this government possibly does well, as well as very well and carefully hear all attempts to bring joy to all that the Government does well, that is what you are devoting me. What the government is doing well, we will say, are European integrations, a Brussels agreement and an attempt to produce a result, but this is not the way to conduct a debate from which the minister, as a politician, will benefit from the budget rebalancing, I estimate, but in March of the month. All intent to hide or hide it, color any other story is legitimate to each of us, but the bottom line is that the Government and the Minister for the 2014 budget and the budget rebalance have been resolved – we will spend here. Two months later, they solved it -- we're not going to spend it here, we're going to spend it somewhere else. This is all legitimate, but my amendments are aimed at opening a dialogue in the Assembly on how we survive fiscal cycles during the year. Of which, the minister can only benefit and indeed make use of the government, and this institution should be respected and do the job for which it was formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17415	The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17416	Dear Presidents, honourable gentlemen of the government of the Republic of Serbia ministers, I propose that the amendment be rejected, especially those who have written "expunge". Not to say that I'm a little shocked by the reasoning and the first, and the second amendment, because they're spoken by some representatives of the same word, especially when it comes to budget rebalancing. Well, it is stated when the country is mismanaged and there is a major economic crisis as it was in 1933. I would suggest that this be presented at his university, his students and published in his university magazine. He also forgot the proposer, or the promoters, or did not know that the rebalancing is being made, and when budget revenues are being made greater than planned, as in this case, which is for every commendation, because the government has contributed to the achievement of the surplus income in relation to the plan and the laws on which we, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, voted here, etc. So that's why it's not relevant, and I think it's even irresponsible to invoke the government for that, but to give her praise. It is not correct to call the government without reason and it is not ethically responsible and it is not academically fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17417	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17418	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've heard a lot of things, here, in a little over an hour we've been discussing here details, changes and additions to the 2014 Budget Act. I once said that only ignorants can call some rebalancing rebalancing because it's changes and additions to the law, but here, I forgive them. Every law has its objectives, and so does the Budget Law. Now someone wants to criticise the government of the Republic of Serbia for achieving better results than it has set its goals. I ask a question, and what happened when the same time of year was rebalancing during the former regime and MPs, who are criticising from the former regime this rebalancing, when the public debt increased? This is twice as good a success as that government's failure. The stories of nothing being noticed on the income and distribution side, and I think we've already explained that. The 2014 Budget Law says – if budget revenues and other revenues are higher than planned, the deficit will be reduced. It doesn't need to be written twice. Since the big stories here were that we don't know we're planning the revenue side of the budget, I'm very prepared, I'm going to invite all the MPs of the former regime to organise a public debate, a public hearing with the director of the tax administration, to present to the MPs what kind of tax administration we found? How many cases were there where inspection controls were carried out but were never brought to an end? How it will turn out that these people are very close authorities and that the tax administration during the former regime was nothing more than a generator of the gray economy. Now, we knew that we had found the state in a broken state but we had no idea in our worst, darkest thoughts, it wasn't realistic how much the government of the state and, in particular, the tax administration, how destroyed they were so that the tycoons, which were financed by the MPs of the former regime, could be in the gray zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17419	Anybody else answer for a word? (Yes) Dr Dusan Vujovic tells them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17420	Thank you. I have very limited time, so I'll try to be very quick and focused in my comments. First, I need to tell you one thing. We're doing this because we're respecting your right, Mrs. Comic, she's not here, I answer directly to her. So Parliament is asking us to agree on every change, every appraisal, which is why we are submitting this proposal to amend and supplement the 2014 Budget Law to get your approval. So you can't criticize what we're looking for right now, it's really not consistent. We ask that old debts be paid, 2.7 billion which are related to the judiciary sector, the wider sector, not to detail, you know the details in the proposal. Four billion old debts in agriculture, which for years, three, four years and more, are unpaid compensations to farmers most often in the lowest income groups. Thirdly, we give 1.3 billion to the MUP to pay its backlogs, mostly backlog debt to Telecom. They use Telecom services extensively, as you know and can assume and pay their debts to EPS. We cannot expect to settle the situation in Telecom, EPS, and that they have endless debts from public enterprises and the state. Lastly, the only supplemental category in all of this is 500 million in severances, Mr. Vulin's ministry, for severances we couldn't plan, because no one can know how many people will apply. So, we had the funds planned. We're adding 500 million based on the estimates that were made last week. So that's the latest data. That's the first thing we've come up with. The effect of this on the deficit is zero, because it's being redistributed from categories that we wrote in the explanation we won't be able to take advantage of by the end of the year given the legal frameworks and obligations. These categories are very detailed in the document that preceded this. Time is really not enough, but I just have to add one more sentence. Let me just say, I repeat, the execution situation is 167 billion with today's deficit day, 225 were planned, that's 64 billion less. I just said the elements on which those savings were made, I can't repeat. Just so you know, on salaries seven billion, goods and services nine billion, interest three billion, subsidies three billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17421	Thank you, Minister. Time. I must take it from you from the next amendment, the MPs are rebelling. So the rules are rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17422	There are too many questions. I apologize again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17423	I totally believe it, but MPs would love to talk longer, too, but I can't. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17424	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have no doubt of the good intentions of my opposition colleagues when they propose these amendments, but their argument does not convince me that these amendments should be accepted. I would like everyone to be brief, clear and mildly polite to express themselves, as counterpart Arsic explained in his performance. So we, too, who are not experts in finance and the budget, make that clear. I welcome every savings, and I hope that these money will be used in the best way for the purposes that are necessary. I was walking through the Birchanin Street today when I was coming here to the Assembly and I was startled by something. The Institute of Urology is an esteemed institution, has a facade that can at least be tragic, that is, affecting those who walk that street. The savings we make can also be used to bring the building into order, because it is also in the city centre, and this is also the building where world's most famous urologists such as Professor Dr. Sava Petkovic, Professor Vlad Petronic, and today a colleague, Jamic, with his team, worked. I hope we will succeed in bringing this debate into one normal procedure and doing what is best for the citizens of Serbia, and we have committed ourselves to our oath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17425	The word is Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17426	Dear President, Mrs Gojkovic, Mr Vujovicu, ministers in the government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, several things in this rebalancing, several facts are not disputed. It is commendable that the last few months have made it more effective to collect taxes, excise taxes, and of course we expect it to be in the following year. But unfortunately, that's also the day below the projected harvesting we discussed last December, meaning this year's budget. Secondly, it is not disputed that the extra funds that appear cannot be enlightened or someone else, because now the situation is critical, we are in a teat, only it can be directed at eliminating certain claims etc. However, claims by some colleagues that we are more dramaticly successful, that the government is dramatically more successful than what is planned by the rebalancing, past, and budget, absolutely does not stand. If we go by their logic, the government would have been the most successful if none of the projects had been implemented. If something didn't work out in the farm, the rest of the funds were left, we'll point where he can. But is that a success? If projects have not been realised in other areas, they are not savings, they are unrealised funds that we target to reduce some claims. So I appeal to fellow MPs, we'll respect some things, we support something, we praise better tax collection and excise and VAT, but let's not brag about unrealised projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17427	Thank you. On the 3rd amendment in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićevic, joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Ivan Jovanovic, Goran Šutanovic, Dragan Šutanovic, Jovan Marković, Jovan Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and joint MPs Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Sneza Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17428	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to say a few things about this amendment. First, I said two days ago, this bill was not prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That you respected Article 153. Rules of Procedure, we couldn't even discuss this today, but you would have made it nice for the government to prepare the bill the way the Rules of Procedure requires, and that's all we can talk about. I would ask Mr Vujovic to explain to his colleagues Babiæ and Arsic, a sentence he said, and I wrote it down -- the effect of this on the deficit is zero. So when Mr. Babic says that we here have to celebrate that the deficit is shrinking, he either doesn't speak the truth, or he doesn't understand, or please explain to him that we're not actually reducing any deficits. If we're going to think that success is that the government was planning something, so it didn't work out, then give it up right away and you'll be the most successful government in the world. No revenue increases, no deficit cuts. The fact that Mr Babic believes that success will be if, every month that he hopes for next year, we bring me a budget rebalance, it actually shows his deep misunderstanding of what the budget is. Every law that comes every month to change and supplement, any law, and in particular the Budget Law, gives us reason to seriously consider the expertise of those who made it. So, you've been planning something, you haven't been able to realize it. You will probably realize next year, and now we need to celebrate that you failed to realize something and be happy about it, and that Mr Babic further explains that we are reducing the deficit, and you just said, I will repeat the sentence – the effect of this on the deficit is zero. I also ask my colleague Babiæ and Arsic to look at the notes as soon as they are finished or let them explain where the deficit is reduced and where income increases and what success it is when you plan to do something without doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17429	The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17430	Because of you and the viewers, let's explain one thing. I am talking about the draft amending and supplementing the 2014 budget law. I said a very explicit sentence that you repeated. This has no effect on the deficit, these are categories, and the deficit reduction is about the estimates that will be seen in the execution, so these are two claims that apply to two things. So, these nine billion that are in the amendments and additions to the law have every increase, there's an equivalent to the cost reduction, i.e. The appraisal and effect of this law, amendments and additions to the law, is zero. However, based on data on budget realisation and anti-climate data, we are now at 161 billion, we are left with seven billion by the estimates of the vault by the end of the year, if you approve these nine, we will be at 177 billion. That's 23 plus 25, that's 48 billion less than the deficit that was in the rebalancing, and that's where you'll see this second sentence about reducing the deficit that's not the subject of this law, that's the subject of analysis. We tell you, if we don't adopt these nine billion, then the surplus will be even bigger, 54, not 45. So I think I've explained the point now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17431	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17432	Is it a regular call or a replica because she mentioned me more than once?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17434	Replica. Here, I'll be brief. First, in Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Budget Law, which is required, provides for erasure of the non-payment of lagging subsidies to farmers. Also, the ministry of justice does not pay off the remaining obligations for lawyers under official duty, so that no backlogs and travel expenses and debts of the MUP to Telekom Srbija, which is also a public enterprise, are not paid off. That's what you're talking about in this article. But to return, since this is also a replica to the presentation of one of the applicants, as you heard the prime minister in the debate in principle, the planned budget revenues from excises in December 2014 for the first 15 days were 20 billion dinars. Last year, the VAT, I apologize, last year was 19 billion, and it was reached at 22 billion. That's where we go back to that part of the story that we didn't even know in our blackest, worst guesses of how destroyed our state administration was in 2012. It seems to me that you will never accept it as the truth and as reality. I would very much like to see how much budget achievement is planned and carried out in December 2011. Let's bet that this Budget and Plan Act was actually a colorful lie, something that was supposed to fool citizens about how the state is running and knows what it's doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17435	Thank you. Zoran Babic, replica. There's a letter from Jerkov, so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17436	It's a wonderful parliamentary practice to say something and not hear the answer. I think it's an insult to parliament when, on economic matters, on matters of the budget, we get a promotion from those who have made a 20.5% deficit in the city of Belgrade. It is wonderful when we receive a promotion on finance and on the budget and on the economy from those who adopted the AP Vojvodina budget yesterday, which they provided for only one small item, only for one small economic classification of travel, an economic classification of 422, for Bojan Pajtic, the Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina, with 6% support, one who only moves and travels by Banovina, a bank building, six times more funds than is foreseen by the President of the Republic of Serbia's budget for travels, and you and those who take six times as much for themselves and have predicted for travel, and today we will analyse the item per item, and the contracts of work, and everything not 60%, not 60%, six times more on their own, on their secretaries, on their official cars, on their own diaries. You and those guys came here to tell us right. These, with 20.5% of Belgrade's budget deficit, have destroyed Belgrade worse than Detroit and have now come to talk here whether or not savings should be made and whether they are sufficient. How do you know you're treating your savings, that's how you made 6 times as much travel in Vojvodina yesterday. For whom and what is Bojan Pajtic in Vojvodina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17437	Thank you. The word has an amendment to Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17438	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Gentlemen and Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens of Serbia, it is quite evident that the assembly majority will not accept our amendments. We see it from this discussion. Even moreover, we are also blaming ourselves for reporting on this second budget rebalance for 2014, where Mr. Minister finally said there is no savings here but the redistribution is going, the re-design of the funds planned for 2014, so as not to fail, and for the simple reason, the majority of the assembly, i.e. The government has failed to realise what this Assembly has brought through the 2014 budget. It is a fact, and especially on the items that should have been developed, which should have been the driver and engine of the development of the Republic of Serbia, I mean agriculture, I mean investment. A few colleagues from the profession mentioned a gamma knife at a clinical center. Even a colleague mentioned that he could use that money in another way, i.e. that the buildings in which our fellow citizens are being treated are being treated and that they look better, not like this, are going down like some across Serbia, not just in Belgrade. What is evident is that, according to Mr. Minister, we have an increase in tax collection, which is good, but we lack something. We will never get out of this budget disproportion until we increase the income tax. In every 10,000 jobs, there's about a tax rate somewhere around billions. Mr. Secretary knows a lot better than I do. He can correct me if I'm wrong. Now, you see how many billion of us have deficits, so many jobs are missing, and what we're seeing, and that's what we're going to talk about when we talk about the 2015 budget, in that position we have a reduction in planned revenues, and then we're talking about here, gentlemen, about development, we're talking about something that's engine, we're talking about cities. Here I am to mention the city of Nis, from which I come, and there are also the messengers of the city of Nis. The 2014 budget was 10.5 billion, realisation 6, maximum 6.5. Well, that's 40% of the deficit. In the town of Nis you have planned 58 million from the sale of land. It's for new investments. Do you know what a realization is? Zero. In the town of Nis, you have a 25% realisation of the position for the fee obtained by the building permit, a quarter of the planned revenue. In the town of Nis, you have a tax collection of 50% to a nine-month cut, and the tax is increased from 50% to 500%. This is development, and we are talking here and explaining to the citizens of Serbia, i.e. The assembly majority, that the success of the second budget rebalance from 2014. Well, it's not a success, it's an emergency. You failed to realize what you passed as a budget law. Dot. No talking, that's a fact. It's in the papers. We're asking why you planned so badly. It's your knife and cake. You can cut it any way you want, and then it's our fault you cut it wrong. Well, don't say that. I hope you will finally accept this amendment and reject the Ministry's proposal, because what the Ministry refuses... The amendment doesn't reject the ministry. It gives an opinion. You reject it or accept it. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17439	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not about the Nis budget, but, for the sake of truth, those who are now attacking him, in 2011, they put the city of Nis in charge of 2.5 billion. These are debts that have left some of the other mayors of the city of Nis to pay back. Now there's a criticism, and I'd just like to remind you that this country has been in debt every day, and I haven't seen the results of the borrowing. They owed the state to buy power to buy votes. They were doing public works that weren't planned in the budget. We found debts not only in Nis. We've found debts throughout the Republic of Serbia and I don't see these many roads because of these duties, I don't see these huge railways, I don't see these huge factories that we've been borrowing the state for. And it's not true that on 10,000 employees, there's only one billion revenue for the state. Take the digitron and the pen and calculate the average salary in the Republic of Serbia in the real sector, and you will see that this is significant more. We all forget to say that when in the real manufacturing sector you employ a certain number of workers, the number of workers in other operations is increasing, and by 2012, we have lost 400,000 jobs and now those who have worked to lose 400,000 jobs, who are full of budgets, learn how to plan the budget, those who have made public administration private businesses, from state enterprises private property, such as the azotars from Pancheva, so they pump out their state-owned goods so that their friends pass the law and regulations put the difference of money in their pockets, and now they teach us how the budget needs to be made. Well, from you gentlemen, everyone in the former regime, who knows everything, and we're half-written, is not hard to be better. Believe me, if we don't do anything, we'll be better, because whatever you've done, you've ruined everything, and the Republic of Serbia, and the Autonomous province and every local self-government where you've been in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17441	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Bradic, did your colleague Arsic mention you? (Blagoje Bradić, from the post: A fellow MP spoke to me four times. He didn't mention you in any way. If you only think what Nis was mentioned that gives you the right... (Blagoje Bradic, from the post: He mentioned the former regime and the town of Nis. ) Mr. Bradic, they mentioned many times Vrbas, I had no right to answer the line. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: So why don't you answer? It's not enough, Mr. Braddick. It's no problem, if you want, I'll give the replica, but it's not enough mentioning a city that you would have the right to a replica. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17442	Thank you. So these two and a half billion you're absolutely right, the city administration has raised it in the past eight years and it's gone into investment. Everything you take pictures of in Nis, everything you visit, it's from that time, and what you say about employment, let me tell you, the city administration and the municipality of Nis were at the moment while the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, spoke of not being employed in the public sector, especially in the city administrations, local communities, hired over 400 people. That's the information you have around you, ask. Don't look at me. I'm one here from Nis, actually, two of us are from Nis and a colleague from DS, three of us. There's eight of you from Nis, so your colleagues are going to say how many people have been hired, and you're going to get these records through the RFZO and the PIO Fund, where exactly the day you have who's employed. So that's not what I invented, absolutely. It has nothing to do with the realisation of the budget. I'm talking about realising budgets, expertise, vision and what needs to be better. It's normal for me to want my city, whoever's leading, to move forward, so I live in that town. But the city of Nis has become a sad city. Question who's gonna turn off the light when everyone gets out of town? And I want you to succeed, I want you to succeed because you planned 21 billion projects for the next five years, 150 projects a year. Do you have any idea how many projects you've accomplished in two and a half years? Zero, none. Well, how are you going to make them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17443	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. You yourself have answered the question I asked in your address. So you yourself said there are 11 MPs from Nis and you have no exclusive right to represent Nis. Now I've given you the right to a replica, even though you didn't have one, but next time, please don't look for a replica when you don't have a right. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17444	I've said more than once that with the merits of the former regime, we don't want to get high. When we mention 400 workers that we hired them, it is during our government, but from the directors who were from the former regime in Nis. As the government changed in Nis, two directors in the utility company and employed 200 workers in the thermal sector. Don't blame anyone else for what you did. We don't want your credits. We don't want your results. They're bad. If we ruled like that, we'd be ashamed. There's one more thing. Since it's been so long, these former regimes have been in the city of Nis in power, I'm asking a simple question -- how many people have been employed during their government in the real sector, and how many people have lost their jobs during their government in the real sector? This is measured by tens of thousands, and I wouldn't brag about these things, because the job of local self-government is not only to pave the streets and make infrastructure facilities, but to create conditions for the economy to develop at local level, and there are results at zero, but fat minuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17445	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has the People's MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, as the applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Mr Becic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of Serbia and the Honorable Guests from different ministries in the Serbian Government, I never lose faith in the fact that by the power of argument, MPs in this National Assembly will still decide to vote in favour of the amendment that we have submitted to Article 3 of this bill. If the strength of the argument is not worth Mr. Babic, it may be worth Mr. Orlic or Mr. Mr. Mrdakovic, for example Or if it's not worth it to Mr. Arsic, it might be worth it to Mrs. Obradovic or Mr. Giric. I have two arguments for the adoption of this amendment to Article 3, gentlemen. Here's the first argument. We believe that the draft amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, which was adopted in the National Assembly on 20 December, respected gentlemen, we believe that this is a sign that the plans of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as foreseen by the law adopted on 26 October 2014, were not accurate and complete and instead of now trusting the Government again, which, by itself here, has already been wrong, I believe that the Government should be warned by rejecting the proposal that the Government sent to the National Assembly. Another thing, gentlemen, there is one misunderstanding here, I think, between people who perform on behalf of the executive and representatives of the majority, who support it. Mr. Vujovic says -- the deficit of these changes remains zero, and Mr. Babic says -- the deficit decreases. Well, does it decrease the deficit or does it stay in terms of change to zero? If nothing changes, that means 8%, each percentage point of 300m euros, respected gentlemen, is a deficit with this proposal to amend the Budget Law. Our arguments are strong. I hope the gentlemen accept these arguments and vote to adopt the amendments that Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted to Article 3. It's a bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17447	Time. Thank you. The word has been given by the MP Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17448	The esteemed chairman, Mr Vujovicu, respected co-workers and colleagues, has already discussed the link between the budget at the level of the Republic of Serbia and the realisation of the budget in local self-government. I think that connection wasn't necessary at least and that we kind of got out of the picture. But when it was already launched, I would like to remind myself that yesterday one of the colleagues from the ruling coalition said that Serbia is a large system, and I will quote, of 160 municipalities, although there are a little more municipalities, cities, etc., and these republican governments, so it should all be seen as a whole. When it comes to the city of Nis, where I come from, of course, analogy exists between the Republic and the city, it is known who criticises, who praises the former government, I am free, because I have never been part of any government in the city of Nis, to say that analogy can be established here. Of course, if nothing is done, if there are no projects, by the logic of some colleagues from the ruling majority, the city will be more successful. But that's not true. The city of Nis is a dead city. It is sad to pass through a city where there are no investments, in which there are no companies that work, there is no real sector and there is no point in constantly calling for the former regime, which I criticized when it was in office, because for two and a half years, there is literally no new investment for almost three years. The city's current leadership deals with itself. He's not even able to honor the national holidays, religious holidays. Nis will be a dead city on New Year's Eve. I ask that, when we discuss these topics, I agree and I urge that we do not come out of the main topic, which is the budget rebalance for 2014 and the 2015 budget, but that we still keep in mind when we discuss successes, successes at the level of the locals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17449	Thank you, Professor Stojadinovic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17450	Thank you, Your Honor. We saw what it looked like when the applicant of the amendment, who explained this amendment, made a lot of false, and then came out of the O.R. The answer doesn't even have anyone to hear, but that's proof of how to... I apologize, the lady who has proposed the amendment has returned, but it is a relationship to such an important subject, which is essential to the citizens. We've heard a series of lies, and it's always the opposition's problem to admit the facts and the results that this government has achieved. Just imagine the situation in which someone had to do the following in 2008, which is to ban employment in the public sector, since they announced a major global economic crisis, and they also said it would be a chance for Serbia and that we would make prosperity there and raise citizens' standards. None of that happened. It is true, which opposition representatives do not want to accept and acknowledge, that in 2008, unemployment was 14%, in 2012, 26.7%. Today unemployment in Serbia is 17.7%. If you ask me if it's ideal, it's not ideal, but the government with these austerity measures, fiscal consolidation, household spending, rapid response, wants to establish such a system that will place Serbia in line with developed countries in the region in the coming period, and perhaps even in Europe. Imagine if someone were going to fight the gray economy in Serbia, how much more would we have in the 2010 budget, 2011 and 2012? That someone wished at one point to deal with corruption in our country, not only to encourage it by allowing certain people, we call tycoons, to gain a huge fortune on the basis of all of us citizens of the Republic of Serbia without citizens having absolutely nothing. Savings, so the budget says, and yesterday the AP Vojvodina budget was adopted, that Mr Pajtic spent six times more money on travel than Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic's cabinet. Well, that tells you something, and that shows you how citizens, how the government of the government of the Duke treats citizens, with all the support of 6%, with all that coalition and helping that party, the SRS, who has been accused of returning to the 1990s, and I don't know what. It's a relationship where you want to preserve power at all costs. Mr Vujovicu, I am proud that you are defending and explaining this budget and I am quite sure that all the ministers who participated in this, headed by the Prime Minister, do not think about the current interest of the state or of some individuals, but of the interest of future generations, all those young people who live in this country, who want to work honestly, to earn their money, to base their families, to stay in our country, because this country has educated them and invested them in them. I'm convinced that even though it's hard now, even though we all feel this bitter taste in our mouths because it's not easy to cut pensioners' pensioners or employees' salaries because they're so small, but that's the courage others didn't have. Courage, even if you pay a price, because of those generations that will come and live in this country. Thank you for thinking of them, because if others thought, today we wouldn't even be discussing these topics, we wouldn't be dealing with these problems. When we talk about investments, six times the cost of travel by the Prime Minister of the government of Vojvodina, and what are these investments that have been made in the last year? We haven't seen any. We've only seen statements where everything needs to be demoted that was done in this country, so they say -- you bring budget rebalances to pay back Er Serbia's debts. How can they not be ashamed? These are JAT's debts, JAT's which have led for 12 years, which have made hundreds of millions of euros in losses, and today something that needs to be brought to life in this country, which is something that we should all be proud of when you go to both Munich and Frankfurt and any airport, and you see the order of the Air Serbia plane, and then they're not doing well, and they're criticising it, even though it's a profitable company that primarily repairs the image in the world, and it's also going to bring funds for our budget in 2015. It's a shame. The opposition has one tactics that is perfectly clear, and that's all that's right, everything that goes forward needs to be destroyed as quickly as possible, just to keep 6% of the support and only to keep the chairs in the AP Vojvodina and some other municipality, if possible. Gentlemen, this is not the kind of policy we're not going to run, this is not the kind of policy we're going to run. Thank you again for thinking of future generations and all the young world that lives in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17451	The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17452	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs can be, when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the budgets of local self-government because there are transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget to local self-government. We'll come back to those transfers a little later. It can also be talked about the responsibilities of local self-government, as their duties enter the consolidated deficit of the Republic of Serbia. That's what we're trying to finally introduce into our budget system, to know exactly how many states they owe, how many local self-governments, how many public enterprises. For the sake of truth, from 2003 to 2012, the city of Nis is in debt for 27m euros plus interest. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: When? ) From 2003 to 2012. The former regime's now, whether it's DS or some other kind of party of theirs, which is here in parliament, was not few, but rather transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which were at a monthly level of 120 million, amounted to 55 million. Guess why? Because the falsified data on the state of the city's economy are falsified. Watch out as long as those who call us half-writers, and themselves an elite, those who are intellectuals, and we bastards or cattle, falsify the report on the state of the economy, reduce transfers from the Republic to their local self-government, to show their citizens that they have not lost their jobs, even though they do not receive pay, that they can educate children, not send them abroad, but that they will provide them with a job in their local self-governments, only to rule for another year. When they saw the government losing, because the citizens can no longer cheat, the head of the party's parliamentary group of former regimes hire them in public enterprises, so they hire their close family relatives, wives, children, so it's a little bit, so they hire them still relatives, and then what they do is they do -- it's a new government, so they're surprised that the citizens don't trust them anymore. I'd like you to, as you keep waving those papers, take out the election results this year, so wave me some of those papers, see how many citizens you believe and don't rub our eyes anymore, because we know you so well, much better than the citizens. They suffered more than you, though. We do not accept justification – we have paid the political price. I ask a question to the bad government – what price did Serbian citizens pay? They're paying for it today, paying your authority through less pensions, through less income in the public sector. What other political price of your mistakes should our citizens pay? That's why they're punishing you so much. Keep up the good work. I think the next election will be very difficult in these parliamentary benches to find MPs of the former regime, who call themselves intellectuals and us semi-literate cattle.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17453	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go, Mr. Toskovic. Sign up again, you've turned off the microphone. Take out your card and put it back on. Try it now. I'll delete the list to try again. Try again. You need to move on to another unit. Here you go, Mr. Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17454	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot understand that the former regime cannot understand that they left the garage one in 2012 and that now the current government can hardly raise the house without any problems. If you had planned well, if you'd done well for the last 12 years, you'd probably be back in power, but the people didn't trust you, so these amendments can't be accepted for two, three reasons. The first is the one I said and the second is if between the two amendments, the three amendments, were one and deleted, then it could probably be accepted and that amendment, because it wouldn't spoil the essence of the rebalancing, so maybe you could think about accepting that amendment. But when you all want to withdraw the bill on amendments and additions to the Rebalancing Act, then it can't do that. Once and for all, you realize that not every man can bring a rebalance, not even a budget, without making a slip without someone else making a comment about it. Therefore, this rebalancing is not such that it cannot be criticised, but only constructively, but at this point it is the only possible, therefore, that you are criticising because there are some funds left, so no project has been done and no funds are left or missing, and these funds have to be used. In what way, in the best way he suggested this budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17455	Thank you, Mr. Toskovic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17456	I want to take the opportunity to say the right context, so first and foremost everyone remembers from parliament and I think our citizens remember that the budget rebalance was planned on 225 billion deficits. That deficit was the result of expected income round, I think it's round 900 billion and expenditures a billion and 125, approximately. In realisation, we achieve almost 100% of our income, i.e. slightly less than 100% of our income and significantly less of our expenditure. I'll read to make it clear to everyone -- 63 billion is less expenditure on our estimates, 7 billion for wages, 9 billion for goods and services, 3 billion for interest, 3 billion for subsidies, 5 billion for transfers to local levels of self-government, 16 billion transfers to PIO and RSZ, due to reduced salaries, and exactly 15 billion failures of projects, i.e. capital expenditure, but only 15 out of 63, that's less than one quarter. Therefore, three-quarters of the savings were made due to the austerity measures that we had predicted already in the previous budget, we did not foresee well enough, we did better than we predicted. Also, I admit, we're making the same income, even though the base is reduced. You have a decline in social product, you have prices that are 2.1%, which is 4.5% planned in the budget. Therefore, we realize that if you were to adjust to these amounts, we are making better incomes than we planned. Together, it gives 64 billion savings. These figures that I've read circled 64 billion, we're just so below the deficit. With today's 161 plus 64, it gives 225 to old math. Therefore, we do so and do not include expenditures by the end of the year for these remaining seven days, it does not include expenditure on these offered supplementarys, repayment of debts from the past that we propose to these amendments and additions to the Law. So, we don't change deficits, only within that we want to pay old debts, so that in the following year we can start from zero to agriculture and in the "Telecoma" reform and in the reform of all other public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17457	The word is from the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17458	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens, Article 3 as well as previous members, to announce and future members, will of course be in the amendment "expect" and simple arguments called for by the amendments are simply not arguments, but rather like a political story, and non-stop indicates that it should not be linked to politics and their opposition to believe or not to the minister, we can believe or cannot believe, perhaps in their earlier experience with ministers who did not believe them, who lied to them, and this is the minister who will challenge what the minister said, and even in the 2015 budget, I will repeat, there are 1,787 pages, all clear and transparent, perhaps more than they should, but there are no arguments that will challenge what the minister said, because within seven days, I will repeat it with the former members of the regime. This budget rebalance shall be adopted within seven days of all these measures in Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. The budget rebalancing law for 2014 will be implemented and here is the minister who will say at one of the press conferences that everything we have said about budget rebalancing has been done in such a way, the funds have been transferred and I will repeat it, I said in the previous report, it is amazing that someone is asking for members of the budget rebalances to be paid back to debt accumulated over a number of years and there is no argument that would explain why it is good to delete something, and it is aimed at removing certain funds in a way, any way that it is a matter, these are resources that have been separated and which have arisen and can be used to close debts, which for many years have been burdening the ministries and hindering the work of courts, ministries and indirect public enterprises. Members of the former regime, when we call them that, they ask – and why we are members of the former regime. I will answer them very simply – because the citizens wanted to vote in the elections as well. This government may not have been able to run everything for a short time, but it has run a lot and enough for citizens to understand that they are no longer driven by tycoons and criminals, but by the government of honest and honorable people and that they are simply led by a leader whom they trust, not only the citizens of Serbia, believe and friends and enemies and countries in the environment, countries of all the world's leading states, and it is simply an honor to have such a leader for the Prime Minister at this point. What is important is to say, as the previous government, or former regime, did, that this is not good, that the Democratic Party could not lead its party properly, let alone the state, clearly shows the division that was created and that the Democratic Party no longer has its leaders. They've split into so many parties, and they're not as sure as there are anymore. That's just enough talking about how he worked and who he worked for and how much he needed to believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17459	Thank you, Mr. Birmanchevic. Dear People's MPs, before we continue the work allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Economic and Trade School "Slavka Djurdjevic" from Jagodina who are currently following part of today's session from the gallery of the great hall. Please welcome the guests. We're going back to work. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17460	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, has been injured by a member of 107th and I appeal, Mr. Chairman, to try to keep the MPs on the subject today, above all. The theme is not DS, the theme is not SRS. I've been a Democrats since 1996. You, sir, were a radical. Hard radical and nobody's asking you that here. I ask you, I know you're tired, and I know that this is hard for you, and that some of the capacities you've invested often exceed you, but make an effort not to give today's session an epithet like it was two days ago, because the political cowardice of the authorities is looking at it for not talking about the subject of the agenda, but exactly things that aren't on the agenda -- whether it's DS, whether it's the Vojvodina budget, whether it's Bojan Pajtic, whether they're black, whether they're swimming pools. I say one more time, if you're not able to let someone do it, because we don't want today's session to be like it was two days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17461	I'm pleased to meet you, Mr. Sutanovac, if you've made such a wish. I just want you to contribute to this session being in the spirit of this high house and the direction of the amendment, in fact, debates in particular. Don't worry. I'm very rested and always ready to please you. Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17462	I'm advertising Article 107. Of course, the violation of dignity, the Honorable Chairman, because here to qualify someone for whether or not he loved an option or was in some option really doesn't make any sense. I think we need to discuss here how someone was running or running the state, and I understand the gentleman from across the street, because when it's being discussed, of course they're not comfortable with it, given that this country is devastated by their authority, so I also understand the nervous reactions of a small-time speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17463	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I am advocating Article 107(2), for example - at a session of the National Assembly, it is not allowed directly to address the MP or other MP, to use offensive expressions, or to present facts and assessments relating to private life. The previous speaker, Mr. Sutanovac, I said – Sutanovac, turned to me and showed me that I am a difficult radical. Gentlemen of the SRS here have you, when I was a member of the SRS? Maybe I'm too radical in my speeches and I'm doing too much damage to a DS rating that's still called that. So perhaps for that reason, Mr. Sutanovac also estimated that I was a radical, because in terms of sins and damage that DS has done to this people, I am too radical to talk about facts that have never been denied here. If he thought I was a member of the SRS, I didn't. Although I claim that the damage done to this country by the Democratic Party, the SRS in the 1990s along with the SPS and the JUL and 10% of such damage did not do as much as it did to DS wild predatory privatisation that swallowed living people, jobs, work, bread to families, etc. If it pleases him, I, as founder of the People's Peasants' Party with the sole membership of the People's Peasant Party, will be very happy to go to the Radical Party just to be against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17465	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from place: Replication or breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sutanovac, do you want a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17466	I don't know if I'm entitled to a replica, since I've been mentioned on many occasions as a Shutanian.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17467	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. He can't rephrase the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17468	That's why I'm asking you. So let me ask you. If you don't give the replica, and if I'm mentioned...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17469	I'd love to give it to you, Mr. Sutanovac, but I can't give a replica to the Rules of Procedure's breach.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17470	Article 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman. When I showed it like this in the O.R., I don't know why Mr. Risticevic recognized himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17471	Mr. Sutanovac, please just another member, since you just advertised it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17472	No, no. He has now violated Article 107. So I can't have another member now based on some story from before.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17473	Only the President can break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17474	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17475	Yes, you can, Mr. Sutanovac, but I'm asking you for the Rules of Procedure to just name another member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17476	For what?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17477	Marijan Risticevic cannot break the Rules of Procedure as an MP. I can handle it as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17478	You violated him by...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17479	You've already called on 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17480	Let me tell you. In this Rules of Procedure, any MP can explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure within two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17481	And to indicate a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17482	107. If you let me explain, you might understand in 118 seconds, but let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17483	I only asked you to specify another member of the Rules of Procedure, because according to the Rules of Procedure, I cannot give you the same member, but if you wish, please, Mr Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17484	You can't give me the same member if it's the same person, or MP, so you can't give us to the same member anymore. This is the first time I've ever pointed out a violation of a 107 member you've done during your speech...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17485	Next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17486	... Ambassador Marijan Rističević. If MP Risticevic says someone here swallowed people, you should react. Right? If someone says that the SRS together with the SPS has done less damage than any democratic government, you as a former radical should react, because the damage done to Serbia and today is paid... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17487	Mr. Sutanovac, it's not worth it. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. (Dragan Šutanovac, from the place: I have two minutes in my office. I thank you. Mr. Sutanovac, believe me, I don't want to give you a third warning, nor will that happen. It's not worth insisting on. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Why am I warned? ) The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17488	Dear Chairman, I am advocating Article 103(2). - The MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the President of the National Assembly which has already been indicated. With that in mind, I'm also pointing to Article 109's injury because you were obliged to give him a warning. I would point to 107, but someone has already called because this is the worst violation of Parliament's dignity where we have an MP who has not even qualified to read the Rules of Procedure. That's what's worst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17489	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. I repeat that I don't want to give a third warning. That would be taking words away from parliament, and I don't want to do that to Mr. Sutanovac. Just keep going that way. The word is made by MP Marijan Rističević after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17490	The Honorable Chairman, I've applied for the amendment, so I've been deleted three times. I was justly justified to reboot the system. On Article 3 of the amendment, my esteemed colleagues from the opposition have submitted, and it reads like this – it is deleted. Article 3 after their intervention, if we were to adopt this amendment, it would read like this... So if that member were adopted, no one could read what the article says. This calls for the power of the arguments. I don't understand what the strength of the argument is in a clean sheet of paper? Maybe it's academically fair, maybe contributions to saving paper? This force of arguments, as it is said, as some congratulation, as an ethical responsibility, and what is already listed, is expressed in very loud sentences. Just because someone spoke loudly, that doesn't mean that his argument is strong, but rather, it means a weakness of argument and a weakness of the proposal that reads - is deleted. We've also heard here from esteemed colleagues from Nis, Mr. Bradic, especially, that Nis is a dead city. You, Mr. Bradic, from Nis, should know that in 2012, Nis was discovered as a highly developed and cheerful city where everything works. Everything was working out. The economy was so developed that the citizens of Nis did not know what to do with the money in 2012. Mr. Bradic, if someone's guilty, it's the Nis citizens. I remember a gromada, the city of Nis had a prime minister, few inner cities got a chance to have, say, a federal minister, to have a prime minister afterwards. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: time.) I'm using the MP's time group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17491	Mr. Sutanovac, please ask Mrs. Komic to interpret the Rules of Procedure for you. Mr. Risticevic reported after the amendment, has unlimited time. Mrs. Komic, I didn't mean anything by it, but you know the Rules of Procedure well, so I wanted to ask you to explain to Mr. Sutanovac. Mr. Risticevic reported after the amendment, has unlimited time for the parliamentary group. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: No unlimited time, three hours. Three hours, you have to admit that at this point it's unlimited. I don't expect Mr. Risticevic to speak for three hours. So, Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away and don't interrupt the speaker. Go ahead, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17492	Mr. Chairman, I'm not gonna ask you to give me back this time I've lost. I use the time of the parliamentary group, I'm not an amendment promoter, I comment on amendments with the right to use the time of the parliamentary group. I don't think that's controversial. I said that wild predatory capitalism was created by privatisation, swallowed by living people. I was talking about the system, not about someone swallowing people alive here. People lost jobs, 400,000 jobs went missing, and you, Mr. Nishli, had a prime minister, and maybe you didn't. If the prime minister had raised industry in Nis, if he hadn't built vineyards in Fruszko Gora, but had built the town of Nis, the town of Nis would have been very developed in 2012, with developed industry. Instead, you were developing a wine business in Frusca Gora. Your prime minister was so pleased with the people of Nis that in the end, in the name of that joy, he fled from Nis and settled in Vračar. It is not my fault that your prime ministers from the city of Nis fill their pockets through vineyard subsidies and then head to Vračar, take apartments of 200 square meters and forget the town of Nis. If someone is to blame you, Mr. Bradic, then it's your former prime minister, a fellow citizen from Nis who, instead of raising Nis, raised vineyards in Fruszko Gora, bought an apartment on Vračar, wiped out and now he writes the amendments – wipes out, wipes out, wipes out, wipes out everything until he clears out. Also, I must say, Article 3 is scheduled for farmers to be paid out of four billion debts. By erasing this article, it's like this -- peasants would get this, so an empty sheet of paper. Does this mean that opposition colleagues are opposed to paying off debts from 2011 to the peasants? Do you know what four billion dinars mean to peasants, who need to be rebalanced by the budget? Do you know that these are people who don't know what summering is, wintering, sick leave? Did you know that these are people who are 30-year-old tractors who pour diesel, full budget, who are now on tractors at the age of 70, 80 to plow, to feed this country? Do you know that they, along with the workers of the martyrs, the brothers of the torment, the sweats and the blisters, carry this state? You're against making up for the damages of four billion? It's incomprehensible to me. For me, it is incomprehensible to every kind of destruction and obstruction, but to be against such martyrs, with blistering hands, with peeled skin from their backs a hundred times, that they do not pay for the lagging subsidy from 2010, 2011, it is a little more than destruction and obstruction for me. Someone wants to destroy their own peasants, and here they are called to the people. I don't mind, the auto goal the opposition gave me. In the end, please forgive us for paying you back your debts, for forgiving us all our mistakes, I think we've earned it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17493	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17494	Thank you. You have done a damage to your Rules of Procedure in connection with Articles 106, 107 and 108. Namely, by applying Article 106 in its second and third position, which he says - no one can interrupt the speaker, nor can he warn him, except the President of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure, and during the speech in the 3rd position of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. You have violated, applying those two positions, Article 107's 1st position. - that the speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and Article 108(1). - on the agenda of the National Assembly is taken care of by the President of the National Assembly, because you have allowed yourself to address the People's Parliament, saying my name and saying what I know and what I don't know. Where do you get the right to introduce MPs who violate the Rules of Procedure, both nonchalantly and infringing Article 108, to throw away other MPs, who neither violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, nor in any other way interfere with the order that you are obliged to hold at the meeting of the National Assembly? If it amuses you to call out MPs, I can understand that, but then it is my duty to remind you of the members of the Rules of Procedure that you are obliged to honor. What I know or what I don't know, you can always find out from me by asking for any suggestion, any assessment I have. That you allow yourself to invoke anyone at any time is a threat to the dignity of the National Assembly. I can only ask you not to do so and of course I do not want the Assembly to plead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17495	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I have to explain. Since you all cited what I did, from the Rules of Procedure and quoted, Mr. Sutanovac threw and interrupted the MP in his speech and said that his time had expired, I only said to look at the Rules of Procedure, that Mr. Rističević had reported on the amendment where he had time to speak, not as the applicant of the amendment only two minutes. The only thing I can accept too much is where I asked you as someone who knows the Rules of Procedure well, and apparently Mr. Sutanovac doesn't know him, that you're spreading to Mr. Sutanovac that Mr. Risticevic has the right to speak for more than two minutes. Nothing more, nothing less. It is not a problem, Mrs. Komic, I will no longer ask you, as a well-known member of the Rules of Procedure, to assist someone in interpreting the Rules of Procedure. I thought you could do it within your MP group, but if you don't want to, I will never recommend it to you again or ask someone to inform you about the knowledge of the Rules of Procedure. I thank you, Mrs. Comic. You said the Assembly didn't declare itself. The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17496	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, citizens of Nis, dear Nislija, therefore, here a fellow member of the assembly's majority spoke of the town of Nis as if the city had been maximumly restored between 2001 and 2012 and mentioned some loans, but he probably got bad information from the town of Nis. Here, I'll give you relevant information to be informed of what was done in the town of Nis. So it's not 21 million just credit. From 2001 to 2012, 35m euros entered the town of Nis, through donations, through loans, but loans were not used to cover the budget deficit and to pay salaries, but were used for infrastructure. Well, so you have a KFW loan, a replacement of asbestos pipes in the city of Nis, so the city no longer has asbestos pipes, and that costs 40m euros city budget a year. Also, you have a replacement of the long-term hot water routes of the heating plant, so you've got a conversion of the heat from the magut to the gas. It's all costing and it's all credit. You also have a stadium in the town of Nis for a billion and a hundred. You also have the construction of a 670 million hall, so you have the donation of the Republic, schools in Branko Begovic's village, of 200 million. Something very interesting, and what should be a lesson to you, the Republic helped the city of Nis with a billion at that time. Come on, gentlemen of the ministry, how many of you have given the city of Nis in two and a half years to help my colleague and friend, Mr Perisic, who is the mayor of Nis? How much money did you give him past the mandatory transfer of 650 million a year? How much did you invest in the town of Nis? How much did you help your mayor reduce unemployment? He can't do it himself. The city of Nis has no money without the Republic. Now, that's the real data we need to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17497	I ask all MPs, Mr Bradic and the other MPs, that we do not adopt the Nish City budget here. I understand that it was a replica, but here we are not adopting the Nisa City budget, but rather the Republic of Serbia's budget, and I ask you to discuss it. [[Blagoje Bradic, from the place: This was a replica.]] Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17498	Thank you, Chairman. I'm reporting for the amendment. I think the proposed amendment should be rejected. In fact, the government's intention as a legislator of these laws is to make progress and improve the state and society, which is crystal clear for everyone here. Otherwise, the amendment promoters in the rush of creativity and opposition inspiration are the only ones who know and know how to propose – it is deleted. I wonder if it's zenith in their creativity, is it the maximum they can offer citizens, or does the assembly speaker use for personal affirmation and promotion, since they are aware that the proposed laws will be adopted because they offer better citizens? As for the town of Nis, on domestic business and behaviour, all the citizens of Nis have already assessed it in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17499	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17500	The amendment promoter said this, that they have a strong argument as to why they submit such an amendment – it is deleted. Whoever has a strong argument offers an alternative, and we here haven't heard anything about what else they're offering if this isn't right. That's the key difference between us here and them. When we submit the amendment, we offer an alternative to what it is as a better solution. If you go by principle - it's deleted, anyone can do it, but what do you offer to the citizens, besides doing some kind of self-evidentism because you have free two minutes of television transmission? I used to listen to this about Nis, the renovated stadium, the renovated kindergartens, halls, etc. It's all very nice, though, for that hall were all kinds of malfeasances, so among other things, the handball European championship as it happened, it's a really special story...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17501	Please, Mr. Djukanovic, don't talk about Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17502	I just have to say something. It's all nice to be restored, but tell us what new value you've created, which factory you opened in Nis? After all, we have brought a Johnson Electric there, so 1,000 people have been hired, and something will be produced, which is what Serbia needs and what improves the budget. Administration and services are very nice to develop, but if you don't have production and if you don't have a new value, you're free of all that, and we're just going to go to that principle to try and bring in investors who are going to create something new. That's why we're doing better, and that's why this country is slowly rising, and that's why the strength of our arguments is much stronger than those that only suggest that something be deleted without any argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17503	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17504	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, if I exceed two minutes, take it away from me from the time of the parliamentary group. As for my amendment, I got it from the Compensation Fund. The Compensation Fund takes care of the public storage system and takes care of two laws, one is the Law on Public Storages, and the other is the Law on Pre-financing. So he's very important, and my amendment allows the Compensation Fund to finance the sum for this year of 10 million, and in the next budget of 30 million dinars, which is not some big number given the work they're doing. This work they do is very important for farmers because, through public warehouses of an existing kind, the harvested genus that farmers store in public warehouses, can be financed by agricultural production, that is, on the basis of the records issued by public warehouses, the right for banks to take it as collateral and to share loans and to establish new agricultural production, and sometimes to improve the processing industry. If the Compensation Fund doesn't work, it could collapse the public storage system. It can also happen that, under question, the law that we passed about 20 days ago, the Law on the Pre-existing Financing of Agricultural Production, where some future generations will be financed through the system of public storage and the Compensation Fund by some future breeds of agricultural production. We thus obtained the conditions to finance agricultural production from previous generations and future generations, and this became compatible. The lack of funds for the Compensation Fund is losing its role, and the banking system is being greatly compromised, given that records based on last year's generation have already been broadcast, these loans have been withdrawn, and if this system collapses, then it can be a problem. It is ours even in the future to develop to the last place of public storage, to multiply them, and to have all the farmers in Serbia on the continent of their own generation who are lurking through public warehouses and goods records be able to borrow their own production or to finance agricultural production at the very end of the future generation, that both options are ahead of them. If we don't provide funds for the Compensation Fund, I'm afraid it'll collapse. I agree that the Compensation Fund did not give me a fully technical correct amendment, so I ask the finance minister to find a model for the government and the finance ministry to finance the Compensation Fund through the closure of certain budget reserves and not allow this to collapse, since it will leave consequences for the banks themselves, by business, by lending, etc. In the end, I want to say that farmers deserve this kind of attention, that they are able to finance their production in such a way, that they are not responsible for the collapse of this country, that this country was not ruined by illiterate, but by the written ones, that neither the workers nor the farmers were destroyed, but by various charmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17505	Thank you. On the 4th amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Živković and Vladimir Pavićevic, joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Ivan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Šutanovac, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljević, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović and Aida Ćorović and joint MPs Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17506	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished members of the government, such as when we spoke both in debate and in principle, the separation of laws that are contrary to the Budgetary System Act today do not go into assembly procedure and because we only had two days to prepare for two and a few thousand pages, as when we spoke two days ago – the government of the Republic of Serbia hides from citizens why it brings budget rebalancing for 2014. The main argument is that this way the budget is reduced, because the government has successfully completed all its tasks, and then certain funds found as surplus will be transferred next year. You know what? We have tried a thousand times to mention what is true, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia hides from citizens, which is why in panic and an emergency procedure brings up 12 laws that are the most important for the life of citizens in 2015. One of them is that Serbia owes itself every three hours for a million euros. It's not a deficit reduction, Mr. Vujovicu. The government simply cannot implement reforms. She can't fight smuggling, the gray economy and tax evasion. These are reforms that the Government failed to implement in 2014 and that is why we are not writing well in 2015. The success of this rebalancing, as you said, is the deficit reduction, and we can see from the stenographic notes that you said that the impact on the deficit is zero when it comes to the budget of 2014. Simply, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the inability to implement projects and implement projects in 2014 that transfer to realisation in 2015, which only speaks of when you said you hoped there would be a lot of rebalancing in 2015. We fear that Serbia and the citizens of Serbia will be the ones who will carry on their skin and back the devastating things of this government of the Republic of Serbia, the government in the third term and Serbia in the recession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17507	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17508	Thank you, Your Honor. We have heard that someone is hiding something, but I do not know what is hidden in Serbia when everything is available to the public, available to Serbian citizens and above all information is available that it is difficult and that salaries and pensions are reduced precisely because of the previous speaker and his party who in every way, hiding what they are doing, taking money from the tycoon, were on the payroll of those same ones, adopting budget rebalancing in 2009 by trading with the Serbian Radical Party, hiding it from the public, that each budget was adopted in front of the New Year's Day, not ten or 15 days, but several hours. They were hiding all possible affairs in the city of Belgrade, as Mr. President of the Belgrade City Committee. They were hiding King Alexander's boulevard, hiding the city from a million-euro chart, a 500m-euro bridge, hiding buses from foreign producers that had subscribed three times as much, all hiding it. In the end, they even hid the final account they had to present to the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia, which is that the deficit in the city of Belgrade was 20.5%, a historic deficit in history since someone led the city of Belgrade. They hid it all, destroying 160 enterprises that are now in restructuring and 500 failed privatisations and the Bank for the Development of the AP Vojvodina, and they hid it. They've been hiding everything. What's Alexander Wolf hiding? What does the SNS or the Government of the Republic of Serbia hide? He's not hiding anything. Just because we're not hiding anything, just because we're not hiding it, and then when it's hard and when it's necessary to cut pensions and salaries and cancel all costs and all privileges, that's why SNS-Alexandar Vukic has over 50% of Serbian citizens to support it. Because we're not hiding anything. If you hadn't been hiding things like that, you might have run this country today, but certainly, since you've been telling the truth for 12 years, since you've been doing everything transparently, you have 6%. That's why even today when you have those 6%, you don't want to hide your fear that with 6% you want to rule in the AP Vojvodina because the most important thing for you is to have combinations, it's most important to you to make a coalition with those you could never make a coalition with.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17509	Mr. Jovicic, please, just go back to the amendment a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17510	I'm going back to the amendment and I'm going to finish, Chairman. I'm really sorry that someone who may be a new generation of DS is talking this hard instead of saying something that Serbia could do, that a good advice or a proposal, is being accused of those who want to do something about this country, and he was a member of that party that destroyed the budget of Belgrade, Serbia and what is the greatest sin, destroyed the future of young people in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17511	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17512	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I am not scarred, but bereaved because Serbia is heading towards where citizens on their skin not only with this year's wage cuts and pensions, but salaries and pensions will remain at that level in 2015, including 2016 and 2017, and as things stand, here, Mr Vujovic air-conditioned, and in 2018. When will it be better for the citizens of Serbia, when you promised 2014, and now you are moving the deadline for 2018? It's the manner of this government. A few days ago, we had the opportunity to see, when it comes to Mr. Blagojevic, as director and head of the office for renovation, this government made so many false promises that they simply couldn't stop, and even if on 1,700 pages instead of budgets were government promises from the election campaign, there would be over 3,000 sides of false promises. You, Mr. Becic, let Mr. Jovicic say Belgrade and DS were hiding something in Belgrade. How is it possible to hide the bridge, hide the bridge on Ada, hide the Zemun-Borch bridge, called Pupin's Bridge, so many kindergartens, so many boulevards, so many schools, so many kindergartens, so many hospitals, so many parks, and all that Belgrade has made so much better than it is? Since you came to power in Belgrade, the pay masses and despite the cuts have increased by 1%, so I am very interested in how Minister Vujovic can explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17513	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17514	I'm done. How does 10% reduce wages in Belgrade and the mass increases by 1%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17515	Thank you. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17516	Thank you, Your Honor. The previous speaker said - how to raise wages, or how to not reduce pensions, etc. If we were to ask you, we would certainly take one ten billion euros of credit that we would load on the back of future generations, our generations, that they would not be able to repay. Since this is a serious government and a responsible government, headed by Alexander Vukic, we will not do it, even if we do not win the next election. As for bridges, big parks and squares in Belgrade, frankly, you haven't hidden them, it can be seen. But what you put in your pockets, you hid it. It's hidden in such a good way because a bridge worth 150 million, like this Chinese one twice as big, how does this one on Ada cost 450 million? How could you take 320,000-euro buses apiece when you have our manufacturer for 120,000 euros? So until Mr. Sapic, along with the former mayor, made the city of cardboard that has grown into weeds, which brings no single dinar to the budget or citizens of the Republic of Serbia for a million and some euros. Are you telling me these are the results? If these are the results, we do not want to build and do this because this is how we rob citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What this government is doing is going to be from the city and the Republic's resources, but in the price of what we take or build as much as it's worth, not three or four times as much. It's the easiest way to get rich, but it's not responsible and it's not fair. As for the city of Belgrade, Belgrade had a 20.5% deficit, and today it has 10%. Next year, it'll drop to 7%, maybe 5%. It is a responsible policy, a policy that is true and only possible, so that our generation, all the young people in this country, have a decent future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17517	Thank you. The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic. You want to replicate. The Rules of Procedure have priority. Here you go. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17518	Madam President, I'm glad you're back at your post, I think you can contribute to no further breach of Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17519	I didn't leave my job.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17520	And Serbian citizens only recognize MPs when they sit in benches, I thought of that job, not what you're doing past. So, when the MP,
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17521	Excuse me, what member, just to follow you?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17522	Article 107. When an MP tells his colleagues they've put some money in their pockets, you're obliged to react. You're one of the people who suspects she put some money in her pocket. If they told me that, I'm sure... . Here, you see how your colleagues react. So, I ask you, since we had one session that was without you, and we've been working on the edge of the incident all the time, I ask you to try to explain to most, that having more time should be used for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, and not for the charges against the opposition, which has not been leading this Republic for three years. I am truly sorry that there is not a single project that this government has started and ended, which is being wheezy with other people's feathers, and which cannot accept responsibility for the management of the state, but exclusively and only, the accusations of some former time in which today you still have the results thanks exclusively and only to this very former time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17523	Thank you, MP. Article 107. - The dignity of the assembly, I think I hurt myself because I don't react, as you yourself have noticed of the carrying out, I don't even know how to say, some of your observations of MPs from your MP group, that I have sinned against crime and corruption. I know who needs to be questioned. So, I'm not responding or reacting. I'm joining you. Everything needs to be examined. I'm here. So I'm really in the mood to investigate all cases without me reacting. Professionally, I don't do that. I'm trying professionally to hold a session and discuss the 2015 budget. Now let's see who picked up first in the Rules of Procedure. Babic, you, all in the Rules of Procedure. Please, you want to release Janko Veselinović, they are very sensual and think that the chairman, anyone, is jeopardizing them in their rights. Here you are, an injury to the Messenger. Ambassador Sutanovac, shall we vote? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: No. I thank you. Here you go, Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17524	The chairman, after sensitivity, certainly no one can compare you, especially with the Prime Minister, showed that two days ago, but I'm advertising Article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you know well that you hurt him. In fact, over the last half hour, an hour, the AP Vojvodina budget and the Belgrade city budget are being discussed. It is not about the 2015 budget and budget rebalancing for 2014, and another eleven or 10 supporting laws. So, in addition to all these budgets you've provided us with the accompanying laws, you're making us talk about the budget of the City of Belgrade, and the AP Vojvodina. That was unfortunately the case when it was the topic of the debate in principle. So there was talk about the AP Vojvodina budget, and if it wasn't on the agenda. You're still letting it happen, and I know why. Because it's not your responsibility to talk about this catastrophic budget and budget rebalancing. So there's a clear reason, but I'm asking you not to. You see, in the end, you come to the agenda, and I don't know who, completely unfounded. That's not the agenda point. Let's get back to the agenda and talk about the catastrophic budget rebalancing and the catastrophic budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17525	Ambassador, I didn't hurt a member of 106. I went out when there was talk of Nis, from the benches of MPs you belong to. I came in when there was talk of Belgrade. If we go to justice, we need to talk about the amendment to Article 4. ‘repeal’. No one said that. Niko, since I came out, this law has been in effect the next day since the day of publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I ask you to talk about this sentence and why it is “expunged. ” That's what it's supposed to look like, but that's not what it looks like in our Parliament and nobody's sticking to it. We shouldn't, if we're in charge, and we apply the Rules of Procedure, we're holding press conferences. Therefore, we are very limited maneuvering opportunities to bring the agenda into flows that are needed and we are talking only now about rebalancing, and then the budget. If the truth works, and I'm on the agenda, you can talk about me as much as you want, I really don't mind. There's always for and against truth and fiction, I don't care, really. Please tell me what you're up to. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: The system is not running. ) The system's not working. Here, the system will work. I'm asking services that deal with this part of the job to do their job today and take care of the system, and I can't take care of the tech. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17526	Thank you, Madam President. Article 108 has been injured. I don't want to vote on it, of course, item one. I will agree on one thing, I want to speak, and the SNS wants to talk about both the budget and the budget rebalancing because we want to show all the difference between the budget that we are going to adopt today compared to the AP Vojvodina budget adopted yesterday in which Bojan Pajtic has for himself only seven times the cost of travel than anticipated by this and this thrifty budget for Serbian Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, seven times. I want to talk about the budget and the SNS wants to show all the difference between the policies that are leading by 2012, unfortunately, the policy that is now being conducted in Vojvodina with travel costs seven times higher than are foreseen for the Serbian Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. On the other hand, Madam President, don't let the Rules of Procedure be abused, because when a colleague says you put money in your pockets, no one feels called because we get paid for this job we do. And it's kind of like putting money in your pocket, but why are those who put the money in your pocket? But not just in the pockets, but in the bank accounts and all the other places. Why are they the only ones complaining? Why do they say so immediately, yes, but you are, I don't know what you are. Why they take over work that must be done by investigative authorities, judicial authorities, not politicians and politicians. It was a time when politicians and politicians ordered, along with them and tycoons, ordered both trial and convictions and arrests and releases and the laws they had passed. It's been a while. Then inform those messengers who are still their heads in such times. Thank you. And as far as this is concerned, we want to discuss the budget and all differences compared to the budget adopted for the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17527	Thank you, but you didn't ask for an explanation, because I don't have an answer if anyone recognized me. The word has Dr Dusan Vujovic, as a representative of the proponents in the Rules of Procedure, should say something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17528	Thank you very much. This, if I have heard correctly, is an amendment to Article 4. Article 4 says that the law enters into force the day after adoption. This is in line with the nature of this law on amending and supplementing the 2014 Budget Law. After a lot of discussions here, I have not heard a single word about the proposal, and the proposal is like this – since there are untapped positions and since there are debts that have been going through for years, and we think they are justified and I would like the discussion to be a little concerned with the proposal, whether these debts, whether it is justified to repay those debts or not, and the debts are next. To the higher courts, a billion 169 million, to the basic courts, a billion 587 million. Both figures include the payment of provided services of lawyers who defended our citizens by official duty often and social cases, often people who were accused of serious acts and had to have defences under official duty. So to deny people who have accepted the law to do something they're asked to do, I think it would be amoral. We cannot predict such sizes in the budget, because these are sizes that are completely happening on other criteria. It's our obligation to pay in particular the debts that have been withdrawn for years, in total, two billion 756 million. Secondly, the Agrarian Payments Authority owes four billion and 33 million to farmers in the name of compensation, subsidies, donations and everything else. Again, the debts are there for years, three, four, five years, and they're transferred year after year. We think this is an opportunity for these debts to return and to start from zero in the next year to define a new, revised, more efficient and targeted agricultural subsidy policy that will be consistent with European standards both in scope and in terms of objectives and results. Let me just say three more digits. One billion MUPs to pay for the leftover services of Telekom and EPS and 500 million additional funds for social programmes, workers' severances that have accepted some of the programmes offered through the Ministry of Economy, i.e. through the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17529	Thank you. But, according to the amendment, the MPs who called in, according to the amendment, came forward. ( Balša Bozovic, from the city: Replica. You didn't get a replica. Do any of these MPs report to the amendment list so they know how to work, everyone or have exceptions? Nejko Jovanovic is reporting after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17530	Thank you, President. I have long signed up to discuss this amendment and to point out at the same time, which is why the SPS parliamentary group supported the Budget Rebalance proposal, especially given the facts that are currently highlighted, and on the other hand, without engaging in any mystification whether something is hidden or not. In particular, it is about the reconciliation of obligations, and in order for those obligations to be settled, there was no other possibility. What does that mean? This means that without the rebalancing of this budget, the debt of the judiciary to lawyers who have handled extrophy, according to official duty, in cases in which criminal matter is largely involved, and these are defences under official duty, as well as cases where they can also deal with the burden of the budget. The question arises as to how these obligations could be settled to lawyers, if this rebalancing had not been brought in. I'll remind you of facts that no one here, and especially not citizens, or the judiciary, can question. First of all, courts haven't charged taxes in a long time. The revenue of the budget on this basis in the last few months does not exist. The courts are not working because of the problems caused by the protest of lawyers. During that time, the revenue of the budget based on the payment of taxis decreased significantly. On the other hand, those courts that were most effective in charging court fees, which are commercial courts, because I keep pointing out that the commercial judiciary is an elite part of the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, are unable to settle their obligation to charge taxes. What would be fellow MPs, and you know it well, Mr. Vujovic, that this rebalancing does not settle obligations. Lawyers would file proposals for execution or file charges for debt settlement. In this way, budget funds would be blocked, costs would increase, as I often say, multiple, because at that time the costs would be the costs of court proceedings, the costs of new taxis. Is that a way to make peace? Of course not, which is why the SPS strongly supported the budget, the budget rebalance precisely when it comes to these obligations, without intending to minimise those other obligations that you have mentioned as something that is imperative to the state. I just have to remind myself that these obligations to lawyers, since I'm a lawyer myself, aren't from yesterday, they're not from two years ago, but they've been passed on from year to year, and that's why they've been accumulated in this way, and that's why the budget has been burdened with the enormously high figures that you've mentioned, and I'm not going to repeat them. It's time to settle. By the end of this year, the lawyer expects these commitments to be settled, if not entirely, then in a much larger part, because otherwise there will be more serious consequences, and these more difficult consequences can be avoided and we will avoid them by adopting the budget rebalancing, as our authorised representative, Dejan Radenkovic, has presented support in voting on budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17531	You're supposed to get the word, we'll wait. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it doesn't mean that a colleague who is the bearer of this amendment is saying quickly, that he speaks correctly. (Balsha Bozovic, from town: Yes? I was most surprised by the concern of the built-in Serbia, so let it take care of those 400,000 people who have lost their jobs. I was most surprised that someone was saying that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wanted to hide something with this rebalancing, and we beat them in the election and convincingly, because we didn't tell the colourful lies about the state of the country...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17533	MP, replica or amendment? And I apologize to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17534	The amendment, but he was talking about his amendment too, so my discussion is adapted to the discussion of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17535	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17536	We didn't tell the citizens about colorful lies, we told them the truth. Unlike them, we have the courage to tell citizens what is true, what is the state of the country, what is the state of our future. When someone before the elections said that the statistical Serbia had come out of the crisis, that it was the only thing citizens didn't feel, but they were about to feel, it was often said in this assembly that it was a lack of political courage. I'm very surprised that they resent being told that lying to citizens is pretending that they work, and they don't know how to work, that they receive salaries, and they don't receive salaries, that they're out of work, that their factories are shut down. What's it called? It's called political cowardice. Why are they mad at the Prime Minister for telling them that? That they are angry at us who are telling the truth and we are not hiding anything from the citizens of Serbia, and we will always tell the truth whatever the results of that government are, because citizens don't want anyone to convince them that they are better than they are, because citizens want to know what's waiting for them and because they know what's waiting for them, and they give them trust. After 14 years of fairy tales, colorful lies, stories of a better life, you can't fool anyone else in Serbia. That's why you have a result that's barely above the census, and please don't talk about how worried you are about the fate of the citizens. We see by the results how many factories are closed and how many citizens are out of work. When you're so worried, whoever pleases God, don't do it that way anymore. Don't do it because those people are left with no skin on their backs because of your concern.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17537	Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, as a stander. I'll delete the list, they're all by amendment, he's an applicant who hasn't spoken yet, and I'll delete the list because I can't give him my word. Please, two seconds to respect me and not to answer except for Mr Pavicevic. Mr. Balsa Bozovic, will you please step out of the system? The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovic, the Honorable Mr Vujovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of this Bill, which we propose to delete the contents of Article 4. I only have two things to say here as an argument to accept our amendment. First of all, I've heard from several MPs, e.g. Mrs. Mrdakovic, it seems to me that Mr. Mijatovic, perhaps Mr. Arsic, is not clear to them what the argument for accepting this amendment is. Dear gentlemen, we have written one very, I think, good explanation based on which we believe this amendment should be accepted. In our explanation, we call for four points. In those four points of four arguments. I mean a strong argument, to accept this amendment and ask all the MPs, if they haven't had the opportunity to read this argument in four points to read, it seems to me that it can be useful in considering and the ability to vote for our amendment. The second thing, I understood Mr. Vujovic when he was speaking here, he said – savings were made, but when he explained how the savings were made, I understood that he also felt that he was defending it here, that the savings, among other ways, were made by cutting salaries, e.g. teachers. Wait, gentlemen, I'd expect one government to prepare one policy, so to say here's the result of this policy is savings, not to be called a pay cut to teachers. Gentlemen, education should be an investment, not a savings, respected gentlemen, who are preparing budget proposals for both 2014 and 2015. From there you should not be surprised that it is the result of the rebalancing and strike of educators now, teachers who work in schools, so if you tell them that we are saving on you and it is our greatest success, so what else should they do than give some kind of resistance, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17539	Thank you. You're giving yourself a replica? [[Balša Bozovic, from town: replica.]] (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: No, please. ) The word has Dr. Janko Veselinović, the applicant, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17540	The Honorable Chairman, since the time of the head of the parliamentary group. I would simply ask, when it comes to this amendment, that the representatives of the parties in power do not use demagogue, because I would say at the very least that it is rude for them to talk about the protection of the interest of lawyers, so they have destroyed lawyers, not just these, but everyone who wants to deal with a lawyer in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17541	Let's talk about the amendment now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17542	Madam President of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17543	Ambassador Jovanovic, if you thought of him, is also a lawyer, so let MPs use their rights and speak, and don't tell you who will get the word from which professions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17544	So let me tell you what...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17545	What do you want? Here, here, say what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17546	According to the amendment, it was a desire to delete that member. Mr. Nedja Jovanovic, whom you mentioned, spoke of the state's concern for lawyers, to pay them what they owed, from a previous period, so he also drew on a period of five years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17547	Article 4 shall be deleted when the law enters into force. That's what you just said you were going to talk about that amendment. Help me understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17548	Yes, therefore, this amendment, or the draft amending and supplementing the budget, does not improve the position of lawyers in any way, and this short-term measure is a drop in the sea, or it would be better if the state had solved the problem of lawyers by putting aside this disastrous law on notaries, that is, to give them back part of the work they have and so that they could live on, rather than repairing these demagogue measures what is being fixed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17549	I'm sorry. There's a lot of traffic in here. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Replica, two minutes. I'll give you just slowly, so many people have come forward and I'm trying in a row, not to insult anyone, to go in order, as people answer because they've been waiting a long time. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17550	I am using the parliamentary group's time because of the minister's comments that it is unclear why an amendment to delete Article 4 is submitted. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, which reads that the law comes into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", so ministers not from the day of adoption but from the publication. There is a difference and there are constitutional obligations related to this difference when the law enters into force. It is a logical amendment, a resulting amendment to our position, which should be without doubt in the dialogue between the executive and MPs, that we believe that the government has the right to decide two months ago – we will spend this and this, that after two months of saying – if we will not spend this, this and this, but we will pay off lawyers, pay off the debt of agriculture, pay the costs of the MEP towards the EPS and the rest, that is government's right. What I'm arguing to you is that you call it reformal, that you call it savings in deficit because we're going to see it together in analysis and what I'm saying is that we stick to it tightly, all together, completely wrongly in the budget debate that the government is always right and that MPs are always wrong, which can happen, but even when it happens, it's not a reason not to be rebalance because I, like you, have an estimate that there will be less than eight billion or two billion, in fact reduction of deficits by an execution analysis, I have the same right to tell you then as an argument, you don't know well what to spend two months ago and then it's an argument that you didn't know how well to judge two months ago, and now it's an argument that you're assessing well. My offer is to stop this way of discussing budget implementation and the reasons for less revenue because it is my assessment that we will have a rebalancing and budget which is the next item of the agenda. I do not dispute the right, far away, although here in the debates the most disputed right for someone to criticise. It's even been said that it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure if you criticize the government and you criticize the minister, it's a very interesting approach. I am only offering the only way that I have, which is by submitting the amendment "is deleted" for each individual member, to use all the capacity that the Assembly has and that in years ahead of us, these are three important years and 2015, 2016 and 2017, important from the perspective of European integration, important from the point of view of the consolidation plan, to leave this recipe, the government is right because the government, MPs of the opposition are wrong because they are the opposition. It won't do anyone any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17551	Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic, but I'll give you the amendment, because I mentioned your name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17552	It was mentioned by the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17553	No, I mentioned it, he said you mentioned it, so he repeated your name. There's no basis for replication, I'm giving you an amendment to discuss, if you want, if you don't want to follow the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17555	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17556	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you for your reaction, but I have to point out again that there's no need for anyone to defend me from me or me from a lawyer, because I'm a lawyer. By being a lawyer and how I'm willing to protect the interests of a lawyer. I did it now, but I did it by supporting the Socialist Party's parliamentary group of Serbia's budget rebalances. The reminders, not only are they debts to lawyers due back in 2010 and 2011, so before 2012, but they are debts to the experts, they are debts to other participants in Serbian procedures. Mr Vujovicu, and how well you know that the experts have been denied a huge amount of compensation on which they have the right to do what they do, which is to adopt findings and opinions in court proceedings. They're not just lawyers here. Trustees are also other participants and therefore it is necessary to make peace with them. I'm asking it to be done as soon as possible. As a Socialist and member of the Socialist Party of Serbia in the parliamentary group, of course, we support all of what you have done, but also how we have the right, and I especially, given the esnaf I am from, to ask that these obligations be immediately and as soon as possible. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17557	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17558	Thank you. In particular, according to the amendment, Madam President, in favour of the appeals for the debate to be conducted in this way, and also by fellow Members of Parliament, including the amendment's promoter, although it is interesting that they themselves were at least acting this way today, that we do not stick to this remark. The amendment to Article 4 of the first draft of the law we are discussing today, full three hours and half of the fourth since we started discussing this topic, ever since I pointed to the fundamental problem of today's debate, at least the one led by the amendments and the demonstrated approach. We didn't hear until then, which is why I intervened, and unfortunately from now on, in this full three-and-a-half-fourth no reason why this rebalance should be rejected, why something in the content of this rebalancing is controversial. We were just listening to principle stories about why it's not good for us to talk about rebalancing at all, and is something controversial in the proposed text? It won't be. If it were a dispute, we'd hear it today. I'd like to hear that in the follow-up of the amendment to this law, but, excuse me, I'm feeling a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a "sceptive" in advance. We haven't heard until now, and I don't think any new reason has come up in the meantime. I'd be wrong not to mention we didn't hear one half reason. We are mentioned today that it would be good to reject this law in general, that is to say, to adopt all amendments with the word “wipes” and thus eliminate the law. Why? Because by that, as it was a formulation, we're going to punish and warn the government. For what? We've been announced, we'll hear two arguments. The first is the claim that there is an open question whether what the government is now saying in this calculation, in this rebalancing correct. That's not certain, since it didn't prove to be exactly what was shown in October. Now the amendment promoter who has offered such an explanation offers no single evidence, but concrete material evidence, and why what is shown in the text of this amendment and supplement law would not be correct. Would someone with an argument, and a political worker, miss a chance to take advantage of it? Would someone who could stand by their words with material and concrete evidence miss to do so if they had it in their hands? I'm sure you wouldn't. Well, then why doesn't he do it, why doesn't he show what the problem is, what's the issue, where the government is wrong, where the government is wrong when it proposes a text like this and a calculation like this? There's nothing left to explain just because there's nothing to say. We haven't even heard the second argument. Calling four points doesn't say anything in the context of what I'm talking about right now, what's the matter with the text and the proposed rebalancing solutions. Have we heard today that one single material error has been pointed out in the shown reductions that can be achieved on the name of expenditure that will not be realised, to say – here in this position is not good and that is why? We didn't. Have we heard one single proposal so that we can use this freed means better, more efficient, more useful? Have we heard what would be more useful, which amount would be better than the amount proposed for subsidies for agriculture, or for depreciation on behalf of borrowing, be it for regulating company workers' status in restructuring? Not a single suggestion. When I draw the line on all this, ladies and gentlemen, I can only conclude the following – that we have spent three and a half hours and a half days today in a debate initiated by the amendment's promoters only because of the need to listen to the principle, verbal condemnation of the government, to listen to comments on whether reform reforms are effective, whether the government is right or wrong, and not a single word about the content of the rebalancing. To this the promoters had the right to create space for themselves in the form of amendments. All right, since they used their right of full three hours and 30 minutes of principle political stories about the government, reforms, etc., I would like to call on today to show a little more seriousness, a little more maturity and behavior in order to do what we do, for example, by not rejecting this law on amendments and amendments to the law, we will support it, for example by not adopting these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17559	The word is Dr. Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17560	I'd like to use this amendment to respond to something we've heard several times in this assembly about this rebalancing. We heard he was hiding something. That's not true. Everything is clear and transparent and will also be made known in the implementation of the budget. Second, we heard this wasn't about savings. It's about savings. However, there is another objection that is often heard here, and that is that this is all evidence that the government did not actually plan its expenditures properly. In particular, the MP said we should prepare for the next three years. And I want to draw attention to that. It is true that for ten and more years, the Serbian budgets have gone by momentum. It was a matter of whether we'd just give in a little bit more or less to give in to pressures more or less proportional and we'd repeat our behavior and our spending from year to year. This budget rebalance is the beginning of a major twist in which we will change our behavior on the ground. So it's like comparing the movement and predicting movement of a car that moves straight-line, same speed, completely predictable, or predicting where a car will find to turn, change speed, etc. Certainly, forecasting budget costs will be far more difficult and therefore less precise in the future than it was in the past ten years, because we will predict that we are doing something that is new and something that is different and something that is much better and more sustainable for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17561	Thank you. By amendment, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17562	Thank you. I would remind you, the chairman, and all colleagues, the amendment to Article 4 which otherwise speaks of when the law should start to apply, reads "expect". It's an amendment. Maybe someone had to offer an alternative, so they could say that the law might have to start working some other day, but they didn't even do it right. We've heard amazing things here, and about lawyers, and about enlightenment and about not knowing what else, we just haven't heard anyone tell us why, let's say, this law should start to apply another day. It shows only the politics of one who endures such an amendment. Speaking of all this, I have to say that our southern neighbours, I'm talking about Greece, the EU member, were so brave, they had riots on the streets and everything, they had to lower their wages in the public sector to 40%. Imagine, and since frequent calls are being made to the Fiscal Council across the street, the Fiscal Council has suggested that we, for example, eliminate 40% of the public sector jobs. Would you then appreciate it from the Fiscal Council if the government changed that? I'm not sure, but here it's important to do demagogy and constantly create tension and attack the government. Let me tell you something, here someone's talking about how we don't know what we're hiding behind, no, we're not hiding, we've proposed, or this government has proposed to cut wages and pensions and educators, and we're not ashamed of that, you should be ashamed of yourself who led to it being done. We're talking about lawyers, okay, people, if you want to do revolutions, block the state, it's not a problem, just tell people why you brought the Notaries Act in 2011, if now you're your lawyers, who usually run these offices that you've been getting jobs in various privatisation cases, then get jobs, so tell people why they're asking to cancel the notes? Well, you passed that law in 2011. It is not disputed, we can also see "Student Front" paroles at the protest of educational workers, I just don't know what that has to do with it, and they can make Facebook pages titled "Revolution - Educational Workers", so Chegevaru to put it is not controversial, all of it can. Just tell the citizens what you're offering instead, and we can't hear it except demagogy -- you're cutting wages. Well, to reduce because we don't have where to give it, because you've devastated us and because you left the country in complete chaos. Unfortunately, we have to do this and we'll repeat who knows which time. Dear Serbian citizens, next year we have to return a billion and 300m euros in interest for those loans you left us here, where you took 7%, 8%, 9% interest, and loans. I'm sorry we have to pay back, and we have to pay back all these debts, because that's our obligation that you've left us, because you've raised it to raise your wages and to buy votes in the elections, and we're doing it differently. We want to create a new value and we want this country to finally move forward. I'm sorry we have to cut people's wages and pensions and not hide behind it, we simply say it's something we're forced to do. If you think we're so crazy that we're so glad we have to work, no, we're not happy, but we don't see another way and we don't see another way out. I would really ask you to stop this kind of politics, but let's start talking about arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17563	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17564	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17565	By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17566	No, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17567	What replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17568	I'm waiting for two replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17569	I'll do it right now. It's been 45 minutes since that exactness. Here, talk to me on the amendment. I'm sure you know how to say everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17570	Thirty seconds after the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17571	It's not 30 seconds, it's the time you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17572	Thank you. This amendment that we have proposed - is deleted for the simple reason that many things have not been implemented, and you said that you will implement them and it just shows that the government has no capacity to implement projects. On the other hand, on all the things that SNS colleagues said, I would only say that when we talk about unfulfilled promises, that DS is to blame for anything, and as far as budget rebalances go in 2014, I will remind only 100 billion euros in investment, Mr Arsic, a channel to the Aegean Sea, a better life in 2013. Instead, we have proposed an amendment – it is deleted because we received a recession after three years of government, because we received a debt of one million euros per three hours, Mr Vujovic, reduced salaries and pensions, pensions unconstitutionally, crime rates like the 90s, 50,000 party personnel are employed, and 40,000 citizens are out of work. You are panickingly passing these laws because you know, but citizens do not, what awaits them in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17573	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17574	Mrs. Udovici started me to try to explain things to us, since you and Mr. Vujovic came from an international organisation that works under a certain system. I wonder if you have any experience making two budget rebalances in the last quarter of the UN? There's something called PPBI, planning, budgeting and execution. Every serious institution does so at the beginning of the year or at the end of the year for next year, controls and ends rebalancing by September at the latest. The possibility of manipulation in EU countries is prohibited by having no rebalancing in the last quarter. You missed, I'm sorry, and I need you to say it openly - we made a mistake, we're correcting mistakes, not that you're trying to convince us here that we're making up some hot water now, a hole in a pothole we haven't already made. Since you worked together in the international institution, Mrs. Udovici, do you ever have a chance to hear in the UN that a budget rebalance is being rebalanced in December because money is being saved somewhere? It's just not saved. An increase in income by cutting wages and pensions, so how come you didn't plan it? It's ad hoc for you, ad hoc to take 10% of your salary or pension. It's a bad plan, every exam would fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17575	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, then the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17576	Thank you. I think it takes as much time for opposition representatives to talk, because then citizens really see the right picture, that there is no argument. Definitely, if you make a certain income that's been increased and you want to rebalance the budget to pay back some gambling debts from the past, what's wrong with that? It's just a responsible policy, because you don't want to be in debt extra, but to recover from those funds what others have ruined, and whatever we say here, no matter how many arguments we put out, the same panel is spinning on the other side, and that's the government that didn't do anything, that this rebalancing isn't right, that this budget isn't working, etc. But the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, I repeat, every policeman, a firefighter, and even an educational worker in our country and a pensioner know that Serbia can't pay any wages or pensions from gambling loans taken in the past, because if it's a recipe to move forward, then generations and youth in Serbia have nothing to expect, anything but new borrowings, new layoffs and a ruined economy that we have found, only to deepen it further. This policy is a responsible policy that does not promise honey and milk unlike what we heard in 2008, which in the global economic crisis, in such conditions and the situation offered a better life, new investments, 200,000 jobs, 1,000 euros per capita for actions, various projects that did not live, except for these projects, we did not get these projects, we received huge debts. Now we're kind of pulling out of them, extracting ourselves in one responsible way, but above all true, so that we can present to people what the situation in Serbia is like. If you ask the SNS if he's doing something for personal popularity, he's not working. Everyone would lose their voices and popularity on this scale, but unlike one of the false policies and fairy tales we've heard for years, true and responsible policy prevails and wins and grows popularity, because citizens want, above all, to be told the truth and what is expected of them, and we didn't say that 1,000 euros expected average salary in 2015. We didn't say that unemployment in 2015 would be 1%. We didn't say we'd do world wonders, but we did say what we had to do so we wouldn't go bankrupt, thanks to the fairy tales we've been listening to, you've skillfully spinged them, you've done everything and everything, but you're not essentially. You were in shape, you had such representatives and leaders. What's the problem now? That is why you are being punished politically, and I think it is really insane that you are now proposing the concept of Serbia's rebirth and development, and in no sentence have we seen any plan and programme, except for the flat-rate and untrue. We've seen, since I've been reading your program, that's what got me so interested in developing family companies. I agree that family companies should develop, but in the past, only family firms of your officials have developed, and you have done so successfully, and you have not been able to reflect this concept on the economy of Serbia, so that other companies of the citizens and people who want to live in this country are developing. The second point was – form a development bank for Serbia. It was little "Vojvodine Development Bank", obviously shallow for someone's pocket. Now we have to go to Serbia's development bank. If these are plans and programs, it doesn't matter, put out that concept, so let the citizens evaluate it. I'm not saying, maybe you should re-enact these plans and new generations there a little to include, not just listen and copy what was really bad in the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17577	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17578	Thank you very much. I think repeating is the mother of learning, and that's why I'm going to have to repeat some things. In light of the law, I initially said which categories we propose to finance from the rebalancing. I explained the context and the effects on the budget. The effects are zero, because they use positions that normally cannot be used by the end of the year, since there are only seven days left. You're looking for entry into force right now, that's the point we're discussing, because there's no time. Otherwise it would be Pierre's victory. We would get a law that becomes effective after January 1st, when funds can no longer be used, they disappear on December 31st, as you know. In other countries' budget systems, I don't want to keep explanations here, we can have a special session, in most countries, adjustments are being made in the context of flexibility allowed by laws, equivalent to the law on the budgetary system. She's down to a minimum. It is reduced to a minimum to asking for MPs, to asking for MPs. We are handling this precisely so that you may have the opportunity to discuss it and agree to it or refuse it. Please comment on specific proposals. I know I'm part of the political matrix and everything happens in political dimensions, but, uh, have a little respect for the personality and the suggestion of what's being put on the table here. I haven't heard a single sentence about concrete suggestions on what to reroute the funds to. If you have to slow it down, slow it down. If you had 250 seats in parliament, I would argue that this is a good spending of budget funds and that we have a position, since we have better achieved all the elements, 64 billion less on foreign costs, 64 billion less deficits. After all these spendings and expected expenditures, we expect the deficit to be lower by 45 or 50 billion. We therefore, compared to what we all saw together at the beginning of October, if we had respected some of your proposals, the deficit would be greater than that, and we are achieving a deficit that will be smaller. To reduce the deficit is a success.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17579	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17580	To reduce it for the next three years and enter the sustainable deficit zone is an even greater success. We set ourselves quite high standards in all this. All international institutions, all professionals judge it. Your flatulence on the fact that something here is amateur, I really have to professionally reject it, is really politics that exceeds what I could have expected in this House at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17581	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17582	You absolutely have no basis for such charges. Please comment on what the law says, not what you think is what you're writing and what you're proposing. Your desire to present this to the citizens of Serbia as something confusing is completely incorrect and unfounded. There are no mistakes here. There's savings here. There's no manipulation here. There are debts from the past that we are obliged to pay back, to get to clean ground, so that we can plan a better future. Therefore, repaying debts is a sacred rule. No one will believe you if you don't pay back your debts. We haven't returned them in the past, I wasn't a minister, because there was no space, not because we didn't realize that they were justified and that they were our moral, financial and any other obligation. So when the old obligations are settled, when those payments are made that are necessary and that people expect us to do, then we will be able to move with a better perspective into the future. I expect the deficit to be lower, I expect this to be accepted, because we have enough MPs to vote for this proposal. But what's very important is that citizens realize that this isn't just a matter of voting, this is a matter of essence. We propose this for principled reasons. We didn't propose other things, we want to go to a new year with clean bills and be in a position to be able to implement this plan in the next year and in the next two years, until 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17583	The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17584	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17585	Whose exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17586	For a few last-declarations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17587	You can't do that. You can only get a word for the amendment if you want. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17588	Dear Chairman, the previous speaker spoke for almost four minutes. You know he's got two minutes under his Rules of Procedure. So please respect the Rules of Procedure and allow everyone to use their time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I believe the minister had the need to give us another lecture here, but let him do it in these scheduled two minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I agree, Minister, that we should have a debate about what the law says. And that's what we've been saying all along, how long it takes to discuss this law. This law doesn't say that the deficit has been reduced. You said the effects of this law were zero. We can interpret it in various ways. You're interpreting that zero is relative to the change in income and expenditure, that everything stays zero. Can we interpret that zero another way or maybe give that grade for the government's work? What we want is to discuss the content of this law. In this law of all that we hear about here, about various changes, about improvement, about progress, there is no. We have what you said in the light of this rejection of all our amendments to this law and of all other laws. In particular, it says here that these are the funds that are planned and not implemented and that now you want to change their purpose. We disagree politically, and we think it's bad, because it shows that this government cannot plan a budget, and then it challenges the 2015 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17589	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. You know very well, and that was a practice the day before yesterday, that sometimes it takes a long time, and the ministers rarely show up, especially have less time per amendment, but I took that time away from all the time the minister has. And you got twice the day before yesterday, so it's not right to complain about it now. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17590	Mr. Chairman, article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, Paragraph 1. - the dignity of the National Assembly. What kind of treatment is that for a minister? The ministers came here, members of the government, members of Mr. Vukic's cabinet, to talk, to exchange views, to come up with the best solution. What's this demeaning here, calling the ministers that they came to give us a lecture? It's a demeaning of the National Assembly. And constantly, all day long, in lack of arguments from the previous speaker and today and two days ago, always -- let's talk, we want to talk, here, you didn't do anything, and then when the cabinet members come, what are the attitudes? What's the matter with you? Unmistakable and nothing. And then, by disdaining the National Assembly, someone wants to conceal that, let's say, only for one item, 422, Bojan Pajtic's travel expenses is spent more than is foreseen for Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic and the Minister without portfolio in charge of European integration, and that is where European integration is competent, I guess the point of standing for all policies, and it is known what the costs are and what is provided for in these things and in the description. But more for Bojan Pitiæ. I don't know what kind of jobs he's got, but he's got more than half of Alexander Wolfie's office to travel, he's on his own. I guess he's hiding something like that. Please do not allow the MPs of the people to destroy the reputation of the National Assembly by demeaning the minister, and thus demeaning the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17591	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17592	Thank you, Chairman. Article 108. Now I'm going to tell you through the motion that you violated article 108. So, you don't allow replicas, it's your right, and thus you reduce the democratic capacity of this house, and on the other hand, Minister Vujovic said that there is certainly a majority to vote on both the rebalance and the budget and all the other laws, so what else do we have to talk about and give political speeches.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17593	Mr Bozovicu, please, was not told by Minister Vujovic. We'll bring a stenogram, if you'd like to see for yourself. But something like that isn't said.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17594	We'll take a look at the stenogram. So it's a demeaning of this home, for the simple reason that the MPs of the opposition are representatives of the citizens, not just the MPs of the government. So I have one proposal that for all future debates, we'll have a nice look at the A4 and speak both of the replicas and the injury of the Rules of Procedure, so decide in advance what is acceptable to you and what we can do, and what we can't talk about. Because this, believe me, loses its meaning, because article 108 says that it's okay for a session of the old chairman or president of the assembly, but we can't come to a word, nor explain the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, nor to speak and to criticize the government, which is our essential role here today. You don't let us do this for the simple reason that you like something, and you don't like something. Someone says we are violating the Rules of Procedure because we are criticising the government or the prime minister, or Minister Vujovic. When they work badly, we have to criticize them, we can't keep quiet, the citizens put us in this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17595	I thank Mr. Bozovic. We had a chance to see in the previous debate, especially when I was chairman, that every time you came to the line, you said you got a replica. When your name is mentioned, and if mentioned close to a negative context, you get a replica. Please don't say that now. You've also just explained the two-minute violation of the Rules of Procedure that it wasn't. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Sutanovac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17596	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, you have injured the Rules of Procedure in Rule 106 because you did not warn your colleague Babic that when he reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure to concentrate on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17597	If you do, I'll be happy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17598	I'll make you happy. If anyone thinks that today is going to go by disabling the public, saying that he split the travel expenses with the Prime Minister of the province of Vojvodina, bigger than the division... One second. It's all said by Mr. Babic. From the division of Mr. Prime Minister of Serbia. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Six times bigger.) I'll tell you six times. You're throwing it at me the sixth time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17599	Mr. Babic, please don't throw Mr. Sutanovac away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17600	Mr. Vujovicu, let me tell you, I said this budget is not good. He's not good because there are great manipulations inside him. Let's say the travel expenses of the prime minister are hidden in the cost ; the Ministry of Defence because... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17601	You're just doing what you've challenged the previous speaker, not to use damage to the Rules of Procedure. You warned me not to let that happen anymore. I'm not letting that happen right now. I have the right to explain. You challenged this right to another MP because you said that I should warn him, that he should not use the violation of the Rules of Procedure to speak of a subject that is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have said all of this and in the end you are addressing Minister Vujovic and replicating Minister Vujovic. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: was I right? Here, I'm telling you, I'm doing exactly what you told me right now. I won't allow any more use of the Rules of Procedure's injuries. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: So you were breaking the proverb just now.) I didn’t say that I was breaking it, but now I listen carefully and don’t allow it as someone who says you are doing it right now. Thank you for your advice. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Have I made you happy? ( ) Would you like to make a statement to the Assembly about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17602	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if an esteemed colleague, the head of the parliamentary group yesterday had time to read the public's reactions to his rather similar statement that he made regarding the defence... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17603	Mrs. Marjanovic, I am asking you again not to use a violation of the Rules of Procedure and to replicate Mr. Babic. That's what Mr. Shutanovac has now warned. I will strictly apply the Rules of Procedure, not to allow the breach of the Rules of Procedure to be used as a replica. If you'd like to explain to me how I hurt the Rules of Procedure, please, but not to replicate Mr. Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17604	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure twice. You hurt him yesterday, but then I didn't get a chance...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17605	What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17606	I said, "Article 107." Because you do not understand that MPs are not here to defend the government, but to defend parliament and the right of MPs to speak, and especially the right of the opposition to criticise the government. Parliament in Serbia has never been as strong as it should be, but what is happening in the last two days is truly outrageous. If you are not already reminding MPs what is critical of the MPs, because they are criticising the government, what would be your obligation and duty, not only in the Rules of Procedure, but also in the Constitution and the law, I strongly recommend that you speak to your colleagues and explain to me what the role of Parliament is, and what does it mean to divide power in a democratic country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17607	Thank you, Miss Marjanović. I'm just like you a long MP and what you just said I understand this, the opposition criticises the government, the position defends the government. It's both right and position and opposition. Why are you now asking for the right to criticise the government and challenge the right positions to defend the government? (Vesna Marjanović, from the place: Let them defend the government, but let them not attack us. I don't understand Miss Marjanović. (Vesna Marjanović, from the city: I don't understand either. I thank you. After we've completed our search on all amendments, I've concluded a review of the bill in particular... (Janko Vesenović, from the city: How did we end up? We didn't explain our amendment. ) Mr. Janko Veselinović, in order for someone to want to explain something, he has to apply. How do I know you want to explain if you didn't log in? (Janko Vesenović, from the city: You said the system is full. I don't know when I said that. I didn't say that to Mr. Veselinovic. No problem, if you're not focused and you don't know we're on this amendment, I'll go back to the amendment and let you explain. I'm telling you again, you had to sign in if you wanted to explain your amendment. The word has a minister in the government, Miss Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17608	Dear People's MPs, I agree that it is not the role of parliament nor the representative of any party in parliament to just defend the government. Far from sitting here so that only the MPs of one or another party of opposition or positions would defend or attack the government. That's why we're here, sitting here, and I really feel the need to say something about this amendment, among other things. Therefore, when we speak realistically that MPs would not only have to defend the government, in 2015 the expenditure of the interest payment budget will be 132.6 billion, and this year these expenditures were 112.5 billion. So we have an increase. It is a serious burden on the 2015 budget, and these are very large allocations to pay off liabilities to foreign countries resulting from our large public debt. That public debt didn't come from itself. With this problem of these major annual assets to pay off all authorities' debts, therefore the future government, and this government and any future government will meet in the coming years, and this is a serious restriction on the planning of government balances. It's a factor that, I mean, maybe economists will better than me interpret it, but I think it's something you can't influence too much. Except for the fact that we plan and find ways to cover these debts more and more with the original revenues of the budget, not with additional borrowing. I guess that's the point. So, the revenues of the budget with the original less and less credit debt. I think it's one of the goals of fiscal consolidation, to stop public debt growth, and then hopefully, over a few years and public debt participation in GDP will begin to decrease. That's the goal. And if the rebalancing of the rebalancing means finding resources that we can locate to reduce these annuities of the yearly ones that will burden Serbia's state register for sure, perhaps more than 10 years, I don't think that's bad. It's the government's position, and because of that, if there is a rebalancing of the rebalancing, I didn't see that the syntagma has an ironic meaning, I understood that this is what we're trying to reduce our government's commitments to bad loans. Those bad loans were taken by others. So, among other things, you were in those governments. It's part of the responsibility. I don't know what the problem is if it shows up and looks, simply, at the facts of the eyes. And it's okay to criticize, it's okay to disagree with the draft budget. But, therefore, reducing foreign debt, not just to abroad, to a number of other loans that have been taken, I think it's a good policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17609	I thank Miss Joksimovic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. Mr. Sutanovac, please, just a moment. Please, just a moment to clarify something with Mr. Veselinović. You, Mr. Vesenovic, have now led me astray as chairman and said you have not explained your amendment, you have not spoken according to this amendment. You spoke for two minutes at 12 o'clock and 27 minutes. (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: As head of the parliamentary group. I said I'm using time as the head of the parliamentary group. I was talking about my colleague's amendment. ) Wait, you spoke of the same amendment as the amendment of your fellow Members, but you did not speak of the same amendment as the amendment to your MP group. (Janko Vesenovic, from the post: I spoke of this amendment as an amendment from my colleagues, and I am not my own. ) Well, technically it can, but I think that, Mr. Veselinovic, you still tried to lead me into error as the chairman, because then he would give you the same time as the time you have as the bearer of the amendment. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: That is the time I am looking for. So, well, that time has been taken off for two minutes as an applicant for the amendment. (Janko Vesenovic, from the post: Then give me the time of the parliamentary group. I'll give it to you, but you have to admit that you did speak for the amendment at 12 o'clock and 27 minutes two and a half minutes even though you said you didn't. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Will you give me the time?) I will, but now you've made me go back to this amendment with a claim that you haven't spoken according to this amendment, and you have spoken. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I did not speak. I was talking, but I'll explain. You did speak to Mr. Veselinović. It's okay, it's not a problem right now, but it is, and you've led me astray as chairman. Mr. Sutanovac, on what basis are you looking for a word? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. Direct address, Madam Minister. She says - you were a minister in the government. There's not a single government minister in charge here. She hasn't spoken to you for a moment. The word is Mrs Joksimovic. Here you go. Just to make it clear if he's thinking of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17610	I apologize, you take the record. I haven't spoken to a single minister, a former minister in any government. I said -- you, speaking of the opposition that's taking place today with these amendments. If you've recognized yourself, I understand that, but I really didn't mention you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: You said – you were a minister. I said-- you were the minister? You really... Please let the service yes. I didn't say that. I know what I said very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17611	Mr. Sutanovac, I already said the day before yesterday that you, on the very mention of the minister, recognize yourself immediately. For every military greeting you recognize yourself, but once you forget, it's been a while since you were a minister, you may once again be but wait for that time. Mr. Veselinović, are you in the Rules of Procedure now or... ? Here you are, Professor Janko Veselinović, according to Business.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17612	Chairman, Article 27 and 107. So you have also hurt the Rules of Procedure in the sense that you are changing the President of the Assembly and have violated the dignity of the National Assembly and my personal dignity. So the DS MPs had the same text as the amendment, and they explained that amendment in their own way. There was also debate of other MPs, and I joined in when Mr. Nedo Jovanovic spoke. I didn't explain my amendment and the reason I submitted the amendment. It never happened that you wouldn't let anyone who submitted the amendment explain their amendment. So, I didn't explain my amendment, and I said I was answering and I was wasting my time as head of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17613	Mr. Veselinovicu, it is natural for someone to first report to explain their amendment. Also, when I asked you if you spoke according to this amendment, you said no, and now you say again that the same text is...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17614	I didn't explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17615	... But you're not according to that paper that you handed over, which is the exact same text, but is according to the amendment that was handed over by the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17616	It's not the same text. It's the same dissent, not the same explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17617	It's no use, sir. Mr. Vesenovicu, I believe that you have deceived me as chairman, because I have a direct question as to whether you have spoken according to this amendment, you have said – no.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17618	I believe you've deceived the public and the MPs. That's why I called to explain the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17619	I'm still saying that. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. I thank you. The word has, too, Mr. Janko Veselinovic, as amended. You don't want to talk? Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in the principles and particulars of the National Assembly, they will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We are moving to the Second Agenda - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs Vladimir Pavićev, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović, Riza Halim, Shaip Kamberi, Zoran Zivković, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Marijan Rističević, Marko Djurisić, Prof. Dr Janko Vesevinović, Branka Karavidić, Bojan Kostreš, Nena Canak, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Đorđe Stojić, Nada Lazić, Snezana Malović, Ivan Jovanovicović, Vesna Marijanović, Gordana Čomić, Slobodan Homen, Olena Papudinović, mg Dejan Šutanovic, Boris Šutanovic, Boris Bozanović, Balšavić, Aleksanda Božović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr Blažan Mirić, Dužan Petrović, Goran Dragažan Petrović, Ivan Dragović, Ivan Žaljan Žalić, Marijanović, Marijanović. National MP Branka Karavidic wrote a letter withdrawing an amendment suggesting that he be a member of 18. The bill is deleted. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget, the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Does anyone want a word? Marko Djurisic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17620	The Honorable Chairman, Member of the 27th National Assembly, is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. I have listened carefully to your introduction, and I have read nowhere on this amendment, to this law, and to the amendment of the Government. Why am I saying that? We're here while we're sitting in the O.R., getting a piece of paper saying that the amendment to the government was dated 19.12. that he was admitted to the 19.12. Assembly at 1400 hours. The amendment did not appear anywhere on the Committee on Finance or on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I ask the question - is this a fake? How is it possible that 24. 12 at 12.00 p.m. we get the paper on which it says - the amendment of the government that was allegedly handed over to the Assembly at 14.00 p.m.? Please, Mr. Chairman, let's interrupt the session and see who's forging the documents. This is a very serious case. You can look at the E Parliament, this paper has been filed between the two documents that entered the procedure today. So someone wants to counterfeit the government's amendment with the government's signature. I ask you, as chairman, to act on Article 27, to ensure that this Assembly works in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, to investigate who forged this paper here, which has been distributed to us as an amendment to the Government and that it was reportedly filed on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at 14.00 p.m., and has not recently come into possession of any MPs, has not been discussed on the Finance Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17621	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. Now I've been informed by the Deputy Secretary that it's an amendment... (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Let me finish, which was normal in the procedure, that he was in the cabinet and that it was a mistake not listed in the synopsis and I didn’t even know how to read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17622	I'm advertising Article 55's injury. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because the Finance Committee has given its opinion on a controversial amendment, so these calls are without any basis. Technical mistakes can't be hiding something, because this amendment technicalally harmonizes the law. So nothing changes, unlike the former regime falsifying a choice for President of the Supreme Cassation Court. It was a fake and let the gentlemen find me a source in the Serbian Parliament of the election of Nate Measrevic as president. Come on, find him. Then you went to the direct application of the Constitution. The constitution is applied through law. We are now making a story about the technical harmonisation of the amendment that has already passed on to the Financial Committee. You'll get the report. If you asked for a report, you'd get it. You'll get it. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I had to get it already, I have nothing to look for. You didn't read it here. This is a fake. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17623	Mr. Djurishic, don't rephrase from the bench with the MP who's exhibiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17624	Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you, please, that you no longer interrupt the representatives of the former regime. What those voices can give us, so we can't make a living here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17625	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. You can't make those claims, Mr. Djurisic, just because I don't have that information to read in the prepared synopsis. I could've not read it in my slip, but you can't read it on the basis of something I've read or not read to claim what you've brought out. We received information, as you said the Finance Committee failed, we received information from the chairman of the Finance Committee that it was at the Finance Committee's session, and I also received information from the service that it had passed the procedure that was written in that opinion, that amendment, and that, too, I saw it, now I remembered that I saw that amendment in the cabinet when it arrived, so simply, Mr Đurišić, you cannot make such flat-rate claims and accusations that do not stand. Since Mr. Sutanovec is anxious to receive his word, I will welcome further comment. Before I give my word to Mr Sutanovac, the honourable MPs agreed to Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt acts from the agenda of this session. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: And after midnight? Don't worry, Mr. Veselinovic, we'll finish it much sooner than you want it to end. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17626	The Rules of Procedure were clearly injured in Articles 107 and 27 and 107 respectively. I don't think we can continue to conduct this session today or we can't in the next few hours until we get a report from the board on both finance and constitutional issues. We're also asking to see the record from those sessions, who was present at those sessions, get the stenographic notes, and then we can move on. You, Mr. Becic, have done nothing wrong, you are simply obviously not an accomplice to something that is currently going on in the Serbian Parliament, which is disabling, completely disabling this session. No one here is obliged to seek a report from the board, but the services are obliged to deliver it, to see when discussed, how and also to verify whether the documents of the Assembly have seduced this amendment when they have stayed. It can all be done in the next few hours. Since you've made the decision to work until we're done, I'm asking you to take a break to have the authorities examine it as soon as possible, whether it's a technical amendment or not. Mr Vujovicu, I believe that you are in no hurry, this is a matter that is more important than you and the law, this is a matter to see if anyone has dared to forge in the Serbian Parliament. This isn't the first example, we've had situations and various forgeries. So it wouldn't be some kind of I.D. card again, so it wouldn't be some party MP's presence, I think it'd be best if you took a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17627	Time's up, Mr. Sutanovac. To give an explanation, you know very well, and I am asking the service now and I will no longer ask some other MPs, but the service to carry out a small training of the knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, because you know very well that by the Rules of Procedure committees and you do not have to plead and you do not have to have a report from the board. That's the rule we're trying to make, that we're making, that we're trying to always obey, but according to the Rules of Procedure, we don't have to. You know that very well, Mr. Shutanovac. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: We have received a report, but there is no amendment. You know very well that there must be no board opinion. To correct the mistake I made, I will repeat this sentence. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a deliberate search pursuant to Article 157(4) of the Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. You've received reports. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Well, we're not.) ) If you are not, you will receive some amendments by the start of the debate. Mr. Arsic, as chairman of the Finance Committee, will make sure that report arrives as soon as possible. Just to find out who's in line by the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Djurisic, you've had a chance to plead upon the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17628	Thank you. Article 108 in the first position - on the order at the meeting of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly, and on Article 55, which in the second point of view, speaks of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds as well as the Republic budget. I followed very closely the explanations you gave and the fact that the amendment that was filed on December 19th in the E-parliament was included for a moment. My application for the application of article 1 of Article 108 is for you to also address the Minister, because I have no committee in charge, and when I looked at the amendment, it was not well collected. Here you have a problem with about 33 or 35 million. I wouldn't claim this if I had a report, because the board would tell me it's okay. Please, just five minutes break, seven minutes. So I'm also for last year's budget when I submitted the amendment, because for "Srbigas" it was a Russian loan in euros, so I just asked you to take a break, because there's no Russian loan in euros, they're in dollars, so we had a problem and an extension. So, please just that we are either to be delivered a report where, without a doubt, the collection is good after this amendment has been submitted or to allow the chairman of the board and the minister to check it out, because I don't have a report. That's my request.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17629	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm asking the service to deliver the reports to the board as soon as possible. Also, I'm asking the minister to check this information. In the belief that this is absolutely right, I expect it to arrive in the next few minutes. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17630	Mr. Chairman, as he spoke, you violated the Rules of Procedure, because you did not warn him to honor the messengers of the people and to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. He called me a counterfeiter in his presentation as chairman of the Committee. Nothing else. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: which he is.) Since Mr. Schutanovac is throwing it now...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17631	Mr. Arsic, if you'll excuse me. Mr. Sutanovac, I know it's your desire to provoke a distance from the session. I don't want to do it. Don't ask me to. You can make threats, you can give criticism... Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Who is threatening you? Allow me, Mr. Djurishich. I said he could do it according to the chairman, but don't accuse other MPs and don't accuse in this case the chairman of the Finance Committee. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17632	On the side of what he called me a forger, he also called the professional services of the National Assembly forgers, common officials in this National Assembly. I will inform the experts working on the Finance Committee that, in addition to the report on this controversial amendment, the delivery and the records of the members of Members of Parliament present who attended the Committee's meetings with their signatures.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17633	Mr. Sutanovac, don't disturb the work of the Assembly. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "I'm interrupting"? Yes, because you came and came to the chair, and you can't do that without calling the chairman. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: I approached the minister. You can't approach a minister without calling the chairman. You know that very well by the Rules of Procedure. You urgently need some training from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17634	When the report of the members of the National MPs present from the 34th session of the Finance Committee, which was held today at 13.00 hours, arrives in this room, I expect Mr Sutanovac to apologize. He doesn't have to do it to me, because his insults mean nothing to me, but at least let him apologize to the professional services they're working in the Assembly, which he also called forgers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17635	Thank you. I have before me a report from the Committee on 24 December, which says that the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, held at a session on 24 December, discussed the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015 in particular, which the government submitted. The Committee shall, in accordance with Article 164(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly discussed the amendment tabled by the government on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. So, everything you said wasn't true. The word is Mr. Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17636	The Honorable Chairman, you're caught and don't make excuses. Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly, was injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17637	Mr. Djurishic, no one caught me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17638	Wait till I'm done. The report you're talking about was filed at 1:12 today, when you remembered something was wrong and tried to introduce this amendment. This morning on the Finance Committee, here's a report from 08.48 in the morning, no amendment. There is no amendment to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at 09.43 hours. The amendment arrived today after ten, eleven, twelve hours, when it was unable to enter the procedure. He could've walked in by the start of the debate at 10:00 in the morning. That amendment cannot be debated here because it has not been filed in good time. Please, yes, in accordance with Article 163. Rules of Procedure, inform the applicant that the amendment, as an untimely one, cannot enter the procedure. Don't put any suspicions here that someone tried to forge and abuse the procedure and throw a shadow into the budget. That's all we want. Don't make a scandal where there's no place for it. We'll have four or five rebalancings, as announced by the prime minister, and we'll make this right. If you do this, if you push this by force, then where's the limit? What's the Rules of Procedure for? What are the laws for? I'm telling you, I have all the papers on me now, don't try to push this thing through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17639	Mr Đurišić, if you have all the papers, you have a nice amendment that was prepared on 19.12.2014. If a failure has been made in the administration, and at the same time the amendments have not been put in place and that amendment, you cannot interpret it as a falsification. This has happened many times before in the congregation. At several committee sessions, they accepted or refused the amendment and discussed amendments, so don't use anything now and make up things that don't stand. Mr. Bogdanovic, don't make any money. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: To declare the Assembly on this. ) The Assembly will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17640	Article 107. You violated dignity for the simple reason that, right now, among other things, you told Mr. Djurisic that he was telling the truth and that he was trying to deceive the public, which is not true. Here, we've now received a report from the House of the National Assembly. The Committee shall, in accordance with Article 164(1). Rules of Procedure, discussed the amendment to the draft budget law and proposed to the Assembly to adopt the amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17641	I just read that, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17642	This morning, as counterpart Djurisic said, there was no amendment. The members of the Committee who attended know and the witnesses are that this amendment has not been made. It doesn't even say when the board made that decision in this report that we received, and I think it's been put before you. I think this is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, but of the dignity of the citizens who have proposed the MPs to sit in this house. This is really a disaster. You're caught up in something you're trying to represent as our mistake. No, this is your fault. If you want, someone zoom in and we can give the citizens this report. So you're trying to get past every procedure to include something that you can't because it wasn't on the Finance Committee. The opposition MPs were present, if you haven't forgotten, members of those committees and witnesses. We can do this thing, how can I tell you, here, you suggest what you want to do so as not to violate the dignity of the National Assembly. A five-minute break until we consult as head of Parliament clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17643	Mr. Bozovic, if you'd listened very carefully to me, you'd understand what I was saying. First, you have a report and I told her he wasn't in one session and he was in another, because that amendment when he arrived in the cabinet to look at himself and didn't go as material for the first session. But after it was seen that the amendment did not pass in the first session, it was put at the second session of the Finance Committee. You know very well when there are a lot of amendments that can be a few committee sessions. You also know very well that the board does not have to give its opinion and that it can be discussed without the board's opinion. Mr. Stojadinovic, if you want to throw, go to the bench, answer the word and you can say what you want. I think we're clear here. You have a report from the board, you got it in the meantime, you got it when the amendment was filed. I've read both of them, so I don't think that's what you're saying, but continue on one of Mr. Djurisic's ideas now, because I didn't have it in my original synopsis and I didn't read it. On that original idea, you're now building a story, you're going on about it. Here you go, no one's stopping you from doing that. The word is from Miss Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17644	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I'm advertising members 161 and 162. In addition to trying to convince us now a little bit past logic that the Committee has discussed all the amendments in one session, and this one right here at the second session, I ask the Minister to add the numbers in the amendment. Our amendments submitted by DS MPs were rejected because, as the government said, they were technically invalid. The problem with this amendment is that it is also incorrect and it could not be the subject of the debate at all because in the first position, 321,503,000 dinars are taken from one apron, and 356,503,000 are added to the second, so 35,000 dinars are missing. Let the minister explain, let him add, it is impossible that we here who had two days to read the budget more ready for discussion than you who, as Prime Minister Vukic said, prepared it for five months.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17645	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17646	Without pretentiousness, it takes consultation to determine what the mistake is. Just a second, just to say something to have information, that you're also looking, if you turn the 145th side of the budget, 463 approvations, in the middle of the page, there's written those 35,000 thousand that exist in the text. I'm just saying, it's about that 35,000 thousand difference that the system didn't seem to pull. So it's written, but it looks like there's been some kind of mistake. I don't know what this is about. That's what I'm suggesting. [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: we have to take a break.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17647	Thank you, Mr. Minister. This is something else we're talking about right now. We are now talking about the possibility of a technical error in the amendment. We'll take a break, I'll take a break as chairman, see if there's a technical error in the amendment, but not a break because of something Mr. Djurisic said... You can laugh all you want. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] You are now from your original claim that the counterfeit was an amendment, that it wasn't delivered in time, even though we can see it was delivered in 19. The claim is that the amendment didn't arrive on time before the debate started and everything else. You are now switching to a technical error in the amendment. Mr. Sutanovac, please, I won't let you pretend, maybe I'll change that decision too. I don't want to let you turn the congregation into something that isn't. There is a possibility that there may be a technical error in the amendment. It will be checked, but with the amendment everything is fine, from the moment the amendments are handed over, through the Finance Committee and everything else. Thank you. I'm taking a break for 15 minutes. (Grey in the O.R.) ) If you're a matchmaker, you're used to everyone being a matchmaker. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17649	We're done with the break. Please, let's get back to work. Minister, do you want to speak now or when we come to the amendment? Just tell me which member? It is not an amendment to Article 1. All right, just let the minister tell me that, be nice. Well, great, I read that amendment. It means attitude four. We've got up to item four as long as you want, dear MP, who you don't believe me. They're all on Article 1 so we're not too late to give the Minister a word whenever we want, as long as we discuss the budget, and to Article 1 in particular. I'm right again. Thanks, buddy. So we can continue the debate. You want the ministers right now or the way I thought. You can give an explanation and maybe we'll come back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17650	Dear MPs, I would like to propose an amendment to the amendment to the First Amendment of the Government. There has been a technical error and one digit in that amendment should be changed. This is the figure in the position, in paragraph 1, or paragraph 1, in the end, figure 90111718000, should be changed to 9046718000. The difference of 35 million was recorded in the 145 budget, under order 463, a projection of 463, that is to transfer to other authorities, 35 million. As the explanation puts it, it is the same element, economic classification 463, transfers to other levels of government. Please accept this amendment to the RS Government's amendment to Article 1. Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Please, according to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17651	What kind of Rules of Procedure? Here you go. Well, I said go ahead, and now that you don't understand. And you're not in the O.R.? And you're looking for the Rules of Procedure? Now I won't give you my word. You asked for the Rules of Procedure until you were present in the O.R. No, I don't. So you don't want to attend the session, you don't register and throw away the Chairman's Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. No, no, you weren't in the O.R. Here you go, Alexandra Jerkov, Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17652	Thank you, Madam President. Article 161(2) has been injured. - The amendment shall be submitted to the President of the National Assembly in writing or electronic form as from the date of adoption of the bill. I suppose the rules for correcting the amendments, as well as for all MPs, also apply to members of the government. Please don't let the minister of ours, the amendment that mysteriously appeared in front of the MPs 20 minutes ago, do a correction like this now. Apparently, the government isn't ready for this session. They have not prepared a rebalancing in the way that the Rules of Procedure obliges them, nor have they submitted amendments as provided for by the Rules of Procedure. We had a terrible failure of the Finance Committee today. I think the first bad results of what you really treat the Assembly as some sort of a stand-by station, where we have a Committee on Finance at a speedy session, where he considered an amendment, suggested that we accept the amendment that was later found to be incorrect. Well, maybe if the Finance Committee had just sat down and read that amendment, you might see it's incorrect. No, everything the government proposes regardless of the deadlines, regardless of the Rules of Procedure, is accepted, regardless of all the rules that exist. And we just can't work like that. If the Government wishes to amend the amendments, let it do so in the manner that the MPs do so when they submit amendments. In doing so, let him explain to us, or you can explain to us how it is possible for the amendment to be lost and that five days no one knows where the amendment is, that the MPs do not receive it, that no one sees it and then, after five days of the session, mysteriously appears and it is incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17653	Igor Becic, as vice president and chairman before the break, gave you an explanation and your allegations are not true. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is a submitted amendment, but as it is possible to lose, I think you know that mistakes happen in these services. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Correction of the Amendment. ) Authorised in front of the promoter, Minister Vujovic has the right to present this. How the Assembly will react and in the debate when we get to the amendment that's the page here by synopsis 16, we'll discuss it, and we'll see how we vote. So it's the right of an authorised promoter to state his position, opinion, and explain what he wanted with the amendment that he submitted 19. So everything's on time. And whether or not they are lost or lost, we have long been parliamentarians here. It really can be lost. And the procedure has been broken by nothing, and we'll discuss it when we come to that article and the amendment that was submitted to that article. So we're only at the beginning of the budget law debate. I don't know how the debate happened before and why we skipped all of these about 20 amendments before this. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marko Djurisic. Here you go. Wait a minute, do you want to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17654	Article 163(3) has been injured. - The Secretary-General of the National Assembly will inform the applicants of the untimely amendments that they have not submitted within the time limit provided for by this Rules of Procedure. So, this amendment to the government that we responded to, we reacted because the chairman did not say that the amendment was submitted when he listed all the applicants for the amendment at the opening, to the debate in particular on the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We point to the following. This amendment appeared magically about an hour ahead of us MPs that it was seduced on December 19 at 1400 hours. So no one's seen him before, not the Finance Committee, not the Constitutional Affairs Committee. So, the Finance Committee only discusses it after an hour, and the Constitutional Affairs Committee hasn't even discussed it. So this amendment is untimely. It's also evidence in the electronic parliament. This amendment was introduced, i.e. entered the electronic parliament on 24 December 2014. Why is this important, Your Honor? This session when you scheduled it, you scheduled it by calling for a session at the electronic parliament on Sunday 21st, at eight o'clock and 58 minutes, starting Monday, at 10 o'clock. So, 25 hours ago. In writing, we got it in half a week. So it was credible what was in the e-parliament and it was credible to honor the deadline in the Rules of Procedure for the appointment of this session. We didn't call here on Monday morning to say - you scheduled a session 24 hours ago, but we respected what's in the e-parliament. I'm asking you to respect now what's been seduced. This amendment was seduced on the 24th, i.e. Today. So I don't understand why he insists that instead of discussing the budget, we're discussing what someone wants to forge the signing of the prime minister of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17655	Ambassador, I can only take your time from your group. You talk, you talk. You need to keep an eye on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17656	You can't from the group, I'm talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17657	Please take care, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17658	You stop me, of course, if I overstepped.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17659	I'm interrupting, 37 seconds, 38 seconds. If we're gonna follow the rules, let's do it. (Marco Djurisic, from the post: it is your duty to take care of yourself. It is not my duty to read the rules of the Rules of Procedure and to remind you that you too have little regard for the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I am in the workplace.) You're at work, as much as I am. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I am more, I am certainly more.) You're over? I'd like you to be more present and in the O.R., it would be my pleasure to see you more often, if we didn't have to check it out when it comes, because we're MPs. To answer your objections, it is impossible for the Secretary General to inform you of something that has not been done. If it's done by procedure, how can I inform you that it wasn't done by procedure. It doesn't make sense. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Not me, but the applicant of the amendment.) All right, you're the one who called, or the applicant for the amendment. How do they make a mistake when there's no mistake? If we said it was lost, then it's impossible for officials to enter, type into the electronic system or print. Why do you keep talking about the budget? You say, so you're preventing us from talking about the budget, rather than talking about this, because you keep the Rules of Procedure up and it's impossible to talk about the budget, but we're talking about the Rules of Procedure. But the Rules of Procedure have a small number of provisions and that will pass. We need to talk about the budget, because of the citizens of Serbia. We can talk about the Rules of Procedure as much as we can, but they want to see how they live in 2015 and the Rules of Procedure, the right to tell you, if you talk to them, they don't understand anything that's being achieved. So you're wrong. The secretary-general cannot inform you of something that has not been done, as an MP, nor can the applicant of the amendment nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government did everything perfectly, by procedure, and we'll discuss it when we get to that amendment, if you let us talk about the budget. I understand the obstruction and everything. If you call for a budget debate, then let us talk about the budget. It's a little request from me, a little request from the MPs to give their opinions on the budget, not the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: As soon as the procedure is respected. ) Here, shall we vote on it in the day of the vote? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. I thank you. The word has been given by MP Veselinović, who is now a member? (Janko Veselinović, from place: Article 27 and 101.) I apologize to you, please. Rule 27 and 101, you're the only one.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17660	Apparently, you're not here now. Honored Chairman, Article 27 and 101. So we have one situation that is legally-formally unsustainable. So we have in the procedure of the government's amendment which, when it comes to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, is absolutely impossible and must be rejected, because it is untimely. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has been appointed. The only way out of this situation is if the Government and the Assembly find common language in order to overcome this issue. You tried fraud. That wasn't legally correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17661	You insult me as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17662	Not you, I don't mean you personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17663	Article 27 refers only to me. Mr Vujovic is not the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17664	And a member of 101st because I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17665	There was a break, no more breaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17666	The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has been scheduled, wait for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to receive a new proposal or amendments to the budget. Therefore, there is no possibility to now submit new amendments, nor can there be corrections to an invalid amendment that has not entered the procedure properly. Therefore, no correction can be made to an amendment which did not enter within the time limit. Therefore, any debate on other amendments would be a prejudge, because we do not know what the budget will look like, we do not know whether this amendment will be accepted. In that sense, take a break to get into some normal procedure and make this budget law legal, because this way you will have an illegal budget law and you will, along with everyone else involved, have legal and political responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17667	Thank you. Political responsibility determines citizens in elections, we don't determine each other, you know that as a professor of law school. As for Article 27, let me take care of both the session and the Rules of Procedure. That's what I'd like to ask you. I would also ask you to allow us to discuss the budget and the other MPs, there are not only 48 MPs here, there are 250 MPs who want to work here. We have plenty of time until we get to that amendment to discuss it. So, the amendment doesn't cut anything, and in the rest we have legal instruments, and if there's a discrepancy with each other's amendments, who knows what's going to be adopted at the vote, don't prejudge anything. I can't reconsider, let alone you who won't allow something to be discussed to come to that amendment. Believe me, everything is done by procedure and you can rip my fingernails off to make another statement, you're wrong. And you know you're wrong, but it's just speculation. I understand your position. You don't want to talk about the budget, you want to distract yourself, some sensations again, I don't know what, to fill in the negative sense of the front page that there's nothing serious going on in parliament, but just sensations and what you certainly don't live on, but voting and hurting the Rules of Procedure may make you live. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) I say you are wrong, and we will see how the MPs react by voting. There's no other one, just a vote in democracy for either against or abstention. (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: I ask that votes be cast. I apologize to Parliamentarian Zoran Babic, I believe you have an understanding for me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17668	Of course, Madam President. Article 108. Of course I'm not going to ask for a statement about him, but he'll use it to take part in a session of the National Assembly of the Old President of the National Assembly. Please and I urge that we finally start talking about the document that is the most important act of the country for next year, the act that regulates life and condition, spending, inflows in public funds. I'm sorry that those who were so loud were in that argument, now we're going to show them that they don't need to get in the ring, into the political ring. I'd like to know, and I know that the government sent the amendments to the procedure on December 19th, that he arrived at the Assembly. Whether there was a intention or not, and why something like that happened, I wish I knew, and I wish those who were responsible for that sort of thing were responding, but I would point out the difference. This isn't the Bodrumska Assembly. If he's lost here, as you say, one amendment is lost. The Bodrum Assembly lost MPs, so they found themselves in Bodrum, so they voted from Bodrum... (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Who were they voting for? Well, it wasn't the only time, and it doesn't matter who you were doing it for, Mr. John. What were you doing and who was in Bodrum and who was the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, I think Bojan Pajtic? That's when he got used to fraud. Well, he was still working on frauds, which he now retains power in Vojvodina by 6%. So you know what's the difference when one piece of paper is lost in relation to the loss of MPs in Athens, Thessaloniki, Bodrum, or someone else voted for them?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17669	Thank you. Article 108. - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. I beg you, MP, that I do not plead, I have been a lawyer in that case that you have instructed, I have no right to plead. Do you want to vote, punish me to say it, I'll try not to say it. (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. ) (Janko Veselinović, from town: You are on strike. What did you say? (Janko Veselinović, from town: You are on strike. I'm standing still, I don't break the laws ever. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17670	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. The former regime is trying for who knows which way to deceive citizens of the Republic of Serbia and now in the absence of economic and financial arguments against the draft budget, they are used by lies and mystifications. The amendment has been filed within the deadline. The amendment was submitted on 19 December. The moment of surrender of the amendment is timely. The amendment is considered to be timely if it was submitted to the National Assembly Office and was handed over on December 19th at the office. Why isn't he divided by MPs? Is the government responsible for this? Is that what the SNS Group MP is responsible for? It's not. When you mention the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, Mr. Veselinovic, you should know that as my deputy on that committee, the Committee will consider the amendment of the Government. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: What has not happened so far? ) Because the amendment has been handed over in good time and the timing of the amendments does not count when it enters the so-called so-called “timeliness of the amendments. ” e-parliament, rather than when he surrenders to the Office. Since you're a doctor of legal science, you should know, for example, from the administrative procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17671	Ambassador, we're not getting into replicas, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17672	All right, here I come to you, Mrs. Gojkovic, you're a respected lawyer and you have a lot of legal experience. Tell me, am I right when the recommended mail delivery is delivered, the day of delivery the mail is counted as the day of surrender to the authority you sent a submission to, is that correct? That's how it was done with this amendment. So, the amendment was filed in good time at the Office on December 19th, and we will also declare the amendment at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and, of course, here at the plenary session when the time for the vote comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17673	Thank you. Does he want us to vote you?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17674	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17675	Dragan Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I give up, I can't take it anymore.) You're giving up. Thank you. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17676	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment to Article 1 provides for additional revenue in the 2015 budget, in the position of non-tax revenue, so 2 billion gains from the National Bank which I do not think we have received an explanation and an explanation of why it has ceased to be paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia since 2013. I will remind you, in 2010, 5.9 billion were the profits of the National Bank, of which 4.2 billion were paid to the Republic of Serbia's budget. In 2011, that profit was almost 4 billion, namely 3.98 billion. I predicted these funds at the position of the Ministry of Economy, support for small and medium-sized enterprises. Mrs Tabakovic stayed here at the National Assembly for discussion during a set of laws on the National Bank and said she was not responsible for monetary policy because there is no profit, or because the National Bank has lost 44 billion and indirectly accused fiscal policy for the loss. Now I ask you, Mr Vujovic, is fiscal policy responsible for this loss or did the National Bank misplace the funds? Why do we not have a payment of the National Bank's profits in this year and we will not have in the following year and what factors of stability, i.e. instability in the European market, influenced those who were not in 2010, 2011, 2012, and were in 2013 and 2014? The public would like to know, we would like to know as MPs and did the poor fiscal policy and the bad policy of former government of Alexander Vukic, the former regime and the present, affect it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17677	The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17678	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since the National Bank is mentioned in this presentation of their colleagues, I think it is the National Bank and the Governor, that they have explained in detail why the National Bank has lost and that it has nothing to do with the fiscal policy that the government or the business policy run by the bank, the National Bank, or whatever you want, central bank. It is not Serbia's fault or the governor that there has been a disturbance in the world market and charters of value and price of gold, which we also do not want to sell, as Croatia did, so now they have a lack of gold reserves. There was another procedure that we, as far as the National Banks are concerned, had a decline in the course of the dinar in 2013 which, of course, reflected foreign reserves shown in the dinar section. Now it's the reverse process, I don't see what's weird about it. The National Bank as a central bank has its priority, primary task, which is inflation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Set the goal not only to be achieved, but to be transferred. So inflation is less in 2014 than it was planned, and that's much more important than what the amendment applicant here is saying, that the National Bank is run in a way that isn't good for it. And how good it is, because inflation protects the entire economy and the citizens. Who can't figure it out, I can't help him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17679	The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17680	After my colleague Arsic's discussion, I can add very little. I just want to point out that the National Bank is independent in its operation, and here I think you're only talking about whether we're actually planning potential revenues from the National Bank's performance. We put what we think and if it's positive, we'll be happy to record it in the budget and share that news with you in some future rebalancing or budgeting next year. As for the relationship between monetary and fiscal policy, it is complex. It would be easier for us to implement fiscal policy if monetary policy were more relaxed, as if fiscal policy were more successful, as written in the agreement on a professional level, means the Staff Agreement between the Fund and the state of Serbia. If they succeed in fiscal policy, a space for a more relaxed monetary policy is opened. So this relationship exists and is recognized in official documents. I don't know what relationships you mean. It might be good to have an open debate in parliament where Mrs Tabakovic would have an equal share in all of this, we can discuss all of this, but I think today the topic of the budget and the item that envisions the effect of the National Bank's business on the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We've put a conservative number, zero, and it's put into rebalancing. If the National Bank achieves a better result, we'd be happy to recognize it and share it with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17681	Thank you. The Order has a National MP, Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17682	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your reply. Of course we need to open the debate, because we have completely diametrically contradictory arguments than Mrs Tabakovic had. As for colleagues from the ruling majority, I'm just saying that it's always someone else's fault, I think, for everything that's wrong -- either it's some former regime out there, or it's the financial situation in the EU or Argentina or Zimbabwe. It's never the fault of most of them, the power they exercise, first of all, the SNS. When is responsibility taken over for both fiscal and monetary policy? What are the components of development? What you are offering to hire people – Er Serbia, a chip factory. That doesn't work for three years. That's quite clear. Give some answer, give some solution, let's talk about serious things, and let's call in most of the time that someone else is guilty, I don't think they'll have any citizens or anyone here in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17683	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17684	Well, it is a problem to accept responsibility, because the years mentioned as the fertile years of the National Bank and their governor were that it was sold in 2010 a billion and a half euros and that the euro jumped 10 dinars. In 2012, a billion and a half euros were sold. The euro has jumped 10 dinars again. Four and a half billion euros from 2008 to 2012 were sold foreign reserves and this is a success for them? You're selling foreign reserves to make a profit? It's a shame. How much did you defend your course? From 80 to 119,80 dinars, 50% jumped. Take one responsibility at last. At least say your real results once, not wrap it in some form. You can't accept that someone is better than you. I'm sorry, the people don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17685	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17686	I really don't intend to defend anyone before, nor do I want to, but I want to say 700 million for new employment in the National Bank since 2013. So it's not something that was before, it's new and it's, among other things, a reason for, however, a small percentage of it, but all of this when you look at the level of the central state, you get to the reason why the state broadcasts bonds and broadcasts at an interest rate far higher than it manages to secure that interest for discounts. It's completely clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17687	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17688	What my colleague is talking about seems to be clear to him and no one else in this world.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17689	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Vesna Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17690	Thank you. Article 1 is amended as follows: "This law regulates income and income, expenditure and expenditure on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, its implementation, the extent of the debt for the purpose of financing deficits and concrete projects and providing guarantees, public debt management, the use of grants, project loans, the use of revenue from the sale of goods and services, budgetary users and the rights and obligations of beneficiaries of budgetary resources." My amendment is that item 1 reads: "This law regulates income and income, expenditure and expenditure on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, budget implementation, the volume of debt to finance budget deficits, the financing of concrete projects, the provision of guarantees, public debt management, the use of donations, project loans, the use of revenue from the sale of goods and services of budgetary users, and the rights and obligations of beneficiaries of budgetary resources are regulated." An explanation of why the government rejects this amendment is that a more comprehensive solution is in the proposal. If you read it one more time or if we have been able to listen, then you can see that my intention was to edit the text, without any changes to what it is that defines the topic that is governed by this law and there is absolutely nothing more cellular in the proposed text, but good. I understand the need to refuse the amendment at any cost, even when you just put the decimal where you need to and agree to a sentence that makes sense. I do not object to the refusal of amendments, but I would like, with the content of this first position, to say my remarks concerning everything that arises from the first position, income and income, expenditure and expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's 2015 budget and to express my regret that it is a political decision to discuss real changes and decide later. To the possible surprise of the minister, I would have had direct support in the debate, in dialogue, if I had heard in one word in particular when and within what time period will talk about how public enterprises are restructured, or the application of the Law on Public Enterprises, in which way we will decide on excess employees, because this is a very important topic. They're not numbers, they're people who have knowledge that we miss people with some knowledge and that's important things to debate the 2015 budget. It is a difficult job, and it concerns both expenditure on budget expenditure and the use of revenue from the sale of goods and services to budget users. I know he can't do it all at once, although I'd put it in a dilemma, given the minister's support for things to be done. The easiest way is to cut salaries and pensions and put into the 2015 budget, reduced expenditure on salaries and pensions. There's nothing easier. What is difficult and difficult together, it doesn't matter whether you're the ruling majority or you're the opposition, change the way in our system of public enterprises, because you're going to have an organized board there, and it's a strong organized resistance. Instead of looking for an ally for the European profile of a three-year strategy, you're asking me to agree without a word that the explanation for the refusal of amendments is that your solution is more comprehensive. It's not and it's okay, it's political communication about amendments that are meant to be, but I want to take advantage of this attitude to ask you, I don't ask you to answer me, nor to accept the amendment, it would be more written, but it's all right, but to ask you to find time, together with the Minister of Economy, to discuss in 2015 all the obstacles to really reforming public enterprises, to apply the Law on Public Enterprises and to discuss the criteria of how you will reduce the total number of employees. This is what in 2016 will really make a change in the budget. We won't have the effect of cutting wages and pensions, but we do have it as a decision because it's easy and because it's something you don't have strong, organized resistance about, as is the case with two big jobs waiting for you and waiting for you by the end of your term. I would be pleased to see that at least at the end of the term of office, we, MPs, want to make a common agreement on good plans, on evidence proposals. It's up to you to decide whether it's going to be or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17691	The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17692	Thank you. Just one sentence on the amendment. The amendment was – the implementation of the budget, the original text reads: “His execution”. Right to tell you, I wouldn't get into it. It's the same essence. Perhaps it's more linguistically accurate what you suggested, but let's accept that people don't like to be tolerated and accept amendments that don't change anything essential. But it's not the subject of my reporting. I wanted to thank you for an extraordinaryly good proposal that is affecting the essence of our proposal, the budget is only part of that proposal, and to use the elements in the budget that exactly promise it. If you look at page 7 of the budget, it is Article 3b, in the first part there is a whole series of structural loans of the World Bank that are not due to the money, all together $625 million, but what is the essence, which is that there is a loan that is directly directed: one - to support public sector public sector public sector wages reform and systems; the second – a loan for the development and restructuring of DPL enterprises, meaning, a structural loan, that is exactly what will apply to existing public enterprises and to those that are the privatisation agency and outside of that and the third loan - the public finance development programme. So we have three instruments that aren't there for us because of the money, although it's the most favourable money to finance the deficit and that we don't have to depend on expensive loans on the financial market, but to support structural developmental matrixes the reforms that we need to set ourselves ambitious tasks, work them out and go into their realisation. Therefore, I would be pleased that, when these laws come to ratification, to discuss this development dimension and the way we want to arm and specify these measures, precisely because they are very difficult, which requires changes in the law, require a change in corporate structure, efficiency, performance in public enterprises. So we're seriously thinking about it and we've put it into loans and we're already negotiating them. So thank you for that question and I say we'll do it in that context.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17693	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17694	Just a few words, very briefly, according to the amendment itself specifically. If I understand correctly, the motive is primarily for linguistic reasons. A solution is proposed that should be more stylishly, grammatically quality than what is proposed for the text of this attitude. If I'm right, I would suggest, for these very reasons, that we don't adopt the amendment, that we keep the original solution, because there is no point missing after the numerical mark of the year in the original text of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17695	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17696	Also, I suggest that the amendment be rejected. It's not just about determining grammatical, spelling or some other alleged precision. This is about some things that are a little bit demagogy, and we could hear it in an explanation. Someone here told us -- the easiest thing to do is to cut salaries and pensions, so put it in the budget. When it's so easy, why didn't you do it? I'm asking a question, when is it so easy to do to cut people's salaries and pensions, why didn't you do it, but instead, you took loans to raise people's salaries and pensions, and you brought the country down to economic collapse? Let's not use that. We take full responsibility for what we bring here. I'll do it again. If you think we're all crazy and silly here, and we're really glad to cut people's wages and pensions, so it's not nice, but we didn't lead to that, it was you. You might be ashamed of it, and we, unfortunately, have to do it because the country is going to go down economically. Let's not spill demagogy here. We tell people honestly what has to be done. If people are not satisfied with it, let them feel free, as someone announces, perform a revolution, do whatever you want, just please offer people an alternative where you'll take it from somewhere else to replace their salary or pension. Nothing more, just tell the citizens. You don't seem to have an answer because the only thing you knew was that you were raising abnormal loans on abnormal interest rates and borrowing the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17697	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17698	Thank you. I'm taking the opportunity to submit an oral amendment. Since the minister is a participant of the session, and all the participants of the session are equal, and the MP rightly noted that there are no points after the number 2015, I am investing the oral amendment in the form of a point after the number 2015, only so much that we understand that we are equal here in the rights and obligations as participants of the sittings and that I think it is okay that, given this remark, no longer to lecture the text, nor to comply with the Budget Law when voted once and adopted, as is common with the representatives of the Government. It's not a joke, but it's adorable. I am not asking for an answer, as this will be the subject of the voting day, when a delay can be made in order to classify the amendment needed, in order for the budget to be adopted in an appropriate sum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17699	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Snezana Malovic, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17700	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I must express my surprise that you have not accepted my amendment. My amendment provides that VAT will be charged at 440 billion dinars next year. The government has rejected this amendment with an explanation that the number planned by the draft budget is in line with politics, the situation in the economy and the like. Today, however, we heard from the minister that VAT revenues will be at least 410 billion this year, instead of 398 planned. So this proposal of 440 is about 7% higher. I think I'm a bigger optimist than the minister, because I think it's real. Why, among other things, do I think this is real, Mr. Minister? This amount of 440 billion dinars was adopted by the same assembly majority a year ago in the 2014 budget. We had a flood in 2014 that made it impossible for us to make that kind of income. I hope that you didn't predict floods next year and that it is possible to achieve what the government proposed a year ago, more or less the same, the majority of the assembly adopted more or less the same on a proposal from a minister who was just as brilliant as you, as they say today. You adopted 440 billion, fellow MPs, a year ago, a VAT revenue was planned. In 2014 we achieved 410. So I suggest 7% more than what was achieved in 2014. We'll have an inflation of 2.7%, as planned. We'll also have some curricula. We won't have a flood. It's all a better life for the citizens we're going to have, I guess, that's what the Prime Minister told us by the end of 2015. All of this can get into this optimistic forecast that VAT will be charged in the amount of 440 billion. I don't understand why you didn't accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17701	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17702	Unlike many others, I share your optimism and I wish we could put in such a number. That would be a relief to everyone. However, the procedure establishing elements of budget and revenue and expenditure has some rules. Here's the rule and here, I have to tell you, we don't do it ourselves. We're doing it together with a serious macrotoma, based on, I think, realistically designed models and in the field with the Fund. The logic is next – since the key elements on which VAT is alimony, which is imports and this is the net domestic VAT, which is gross VAT minus vomiting, due to the expected decline in real social product of 0.5%, as it is written, the expected low inflation rates and expected trends, i.e. the fall in real consumption, which is the main export of the net VAT, we went with the conservative figure we already achieved this year. In other words, if we succeed, as I think we will succeed, and if we achieve this, we will very easily include it and improve the result. We don't want ourselves, because we and the IMF and the entire international community are going to follow the budget. I have to tell you, it's this asymmetric situation. For us, it is much better to achieve an equal or better result than what we are planning, and it will be monitored monthly and quarterly, than to put things optimistically in the projection of the social product and in the projection of individual income elements, to cough for it, and to have a stigma that we do not realize what we are planning. Unlike some other things, as soon as we achieve the result, this is considered a soft measure, as soon as we achieve the result, we can include, and then through rebalancing, we ask you for a mandate on how to divide that surplus, whether we pay back the debts, whether we start those parts that we've failed to do now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17703	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17704	I would be pleased if the amendment's proponent, on the very point of VAT, were optimistic while they were in power, but then the VAT and tax revenues were criminal, catastrophic and, among other things, the state is in a very difficult state today. Here are the diagrams. Especially in October and November this year, we have a fantastic increase in VAT collection. Finally, the IRS started doing its job. Of course you always have to take something with the reserve because in this country it was very commendable not to pay taxes or, what the people would say, to turn the country around, especially if you were connected to the government, but that's the end of it. However, since we have had such a regular practice, you have to express one of these reserves. I'm glad you're an optimist. That means you believe in this government that it's going to start with even better tax revenues, but if we're looking at the results from October and November this year, I believe what you've projected here is ahead of us, but let's leave it with the reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17705	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17706	So, I'm glad we could all hear what we're expecting next year: a decline in consumption, a drop in GDP and a slight inflation. It's good that the citizens know that. So there's no better life. I believe it is possible if it worked better, if it did the tax administration as it did before, when they were much higher incomes than VAT, as in 2013. Your prime minister is talking about it, if you think and want success, you have to believe it. I don't know how this government wants to achieve success and a better life if they don't believe it. Is this an alibi for you to come in a few months to do the rebalancing and say -- we have bigger incomes because you've now consciously planned them at a lower level? So you planned them at a lower level than you now know will be charged in 2014. You said 410 billion was charged to date, and you're designing 399 billion. You consciously place less income to come here in a few months and say, "We have bigger incomes." I think it's irresponsible and if there's such a debate going on, and I'm sure it will be, because that's why this number is reduced, we're going to have this stenogram and what you said in this debate today. I repeat, the budget must be realistic and well-planned. If you purposely plan something bad, don't come to us in a few months and say it - it's better. You plan to make it worse than it is in 2014. I think it's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17707	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17708	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can only congratulate the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for being cautious, carefully planning the budget of the Republic of Serbia in those frameworks they consider realistic. Those who attack this budget forget that the previous budgets, when real tax revenues were at stake, were pre-named and lied to both citizens and other public that Serbia was a taxable country, and then gave us rebalancing before the new year, not where they reduced the deficit, but who increased. Now that's what he wants us to do. That's what makes us different, gentlemen from the former regime. We're careful. This budget is the worst scenario that can happen to us while this government is, but that worst one is 25 times better, least of all, than your best scenario we've ever experienced. Don't teach us any more. We've learned enough from your mistakes and don't make us repeat your mistakes. That's the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17709	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17710	Of course the budget is a real and planned category. When we talk about the budget, then we need to know that the total revenues in this budget are growing by 3%, that tax revenues are growing by 3.35% and that GDP is going to be down by 0.5%, inflation rate is 2.7%, at the beginning of the year 2%, at the end of the year 4%, is going to be 2.7% average. You'll have a drop in unemployment. You're going to have three key macroeconomic parameters, if we start from the assumption that growth is going to be greater than 0.5%, or less than negative 0.5%, which is realistically stable. Under such conditions, a perfectly normal conservative method of budget planning is. Today we've been hearing about the rebalancing of budget rebalances. Ladies and gentlemen, take a little theory and see that there is no budget rebalance. Once the budget is adopted and the budget is discussed, the budget is discussed. No rebalancing. What we're about to adopt is a budget, not a budget rebalance. When you talk about revenues, then you should certainly know that the state of Serbia is taking this income from its citizens, and these are tax revenues that encourage the public sector and that it would be terribly smart, Mr. Minister, as we have done with staff expenditures, we define the amount of the Republic of Serbia's budget compared to GDP. This would be a clear feature of how much budget, public expenditure at the level of the Republic can cost all citizens in the state of Serbia. The conservative mechanism of expenditure planning and revenue planning certainly speaks of a completely different way of thinking and functioning of public income areas in the state of Serbia. If this is supported by the IMF, if this is supported by the Fiscal Council and the World Bank, then it is completely irrelevant that someone for political reasons thinks they can do something different.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17711	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17712	I want to make an addition. So, the reality of designing the revenue side of the budget is measured primarily by the participation of income in the social product and the tax burden that the budget sets. We made a commitment not to increase the rates of taxes, not to increase the rates of excise duties, that we would only try a better charge, primarily by fighting the gray economy and expanding the field of economic activities that are subject to taxation, to increase the results. If we achieve better results within these parameters, as I said, these funds are available to be used. If we went with the logic of pre-optimist income planning, then we would set ourselves very ambitious targets from the perspective of the deficit. Logic is not always the logic of parliament or politicians or expectations that people have. The logic here is that you do not commit to more than you can do, because the deficit will be monitored. If you look at your proposal here, Mr. Djurisic, it reads – the revenues will be 969, at the same cost, the deficit will fall to 113, which is then translated into that someone will expect you to have a monthly dynamic of nine million or how much, which is a very, very high burden for us. So, where, if what you're saying comes true then there's no problem with us coming to parliament and saying – the difference is, we're looking for a rebalance, because you're in a worse deficit, and it's much easier to come after the first quarter and say – we've met the requirements with the fund in May, we've passed that test, we've got extra income, how to use it in the best way to solve structural problems to make that positive loop in the budget. So it's very different to put it in advance. I think it's unrealistic that we can achieve 113 billion...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17713	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17714	... That's the only reason we're going to a conservative assessment, and...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17715	I thank the ministers, time. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17716	Dear People's MPs, honourable ministers, I hope that this amendment of mine will not cause replication, a salvo of replicas as it has caused Mr. Djurisic, because I simply do not know what the ruling majority's reaction was if, God forbid, I would suggest not to charge the budget, but in what way that budget would be spent and there would be more expenditure. So, first of all, the aim of submitting this amendment is to make sure that the excise duty on tobacco processing is as good as possible and that there is a better charge for the rest of the excise duties. When I proposed this amendment, when I wrote, I compared the 2014 budget and this budget. To the soul, the budget was written by the previous finance minister, and I saw that the proposal was much bigger at the time to charge the budget and collect excise duties. So I literally put the same numbers out of that budget and we came to the point that 21.3 billion dinars would have higher revenue based on charge, i.e. The collection of those excises. Of course, the motive for this amendment was the same as the stories and statements and the prime minister and you, Mr. Minister, back a few weeks, so if you want months, that the tax administration has improved the collection of excise duties, that it has made significant efforts to cut through tobacco smuggling. However, now that we look at the reason why this amendment has not been accepted, I have to be honest with you that I'm a little bit suspicious of all these statements, because if it's all that, and I'm telling you, I believed it, I don't see why this amendment was rejected. Also, we are all witnessing that a lot of excise goods you have today, unfortunately sold, not only on the street, but also in retail facilities. Look at the smuggling of cigarettes, the smuggling of alcoholic beverages and other excise goods. I think that the Ministry of Finance and all inspection services should give even more, maximum effort to prevent this kind of smuggling and in this way contribute more to budgeting. So, first of all, I repeat, the intention of my colleagues and my colleagues who will speak after me is how to increase revenue in the budget and how to reduce the budget deficit, and hence the fiscal deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17717	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17718	I want to believe, and I believe that the esteemed applicant of the amendment has really put up with this in a good way and it can be seen that he's even thinking straight. With the fact that I still have to agree with the government's explanation and thank you for giving us the opportunity to, well, we can also praise some of the results. That's what we can't see in the media for any reason. Apparently here when extremely good activities are carried out by the tax administration especially around the confiscation of cut tobacco, i.e. when the smuggling of tobacco seems to be not the subject. The theme is to talk about some really morbid things, and here today, for example, there was one seizure, we had a chance to hear it, 500 tons in Love about tobacco. Also, four and a half tons of it has been seized recently in Kovin. So it's really done remarkablely and therefore, of course, that the revenues are much higher, and I believe that with this kind of projection that the ministry gave, that is, the government itself is going to do much better. But please, really, I'm appealing to the media it's some good news for this country that we're finally starting to establish a system to sometimes get positive and write about it, that they don't just have to write about the Assembly being a cattle market, like we had in a daily newspaper today, but we can just sometimes write something nice for the state to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17719	Thank you. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17720	I thank Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, colleagues from my parliamentary group and myself, assessing that the proposed budget is unsatisfactory, we have given several variations on how to amend Article 1 which regulates what the budget consists of. In my amendment, I proposed that the total revenue of the budget be increased through the increase of the tax on the largest taxpayers, active business entities, including the collection of only 50% of their total debts, for the first 93 taxpayers of 435 as many as 45 billion dinars, according to the tax administration's data, and the list was made up on 30 September 2014, this year. As far as I know, almost half of these tax debtors from the first 93 are now in the restructuring process, but there are 300 more and some of them on that list and who owe. In addition, an increase in income tax and value added tax of 64.7 billion dinars is also proposed, while reducing revenues based on public sector income cuts to 12 billion dinars, which is at the level of the savings effect of the solidarity tax. It is also proposed to increase the amount of earnings and contributions at pre-reduction level as well as to increase the transfer of funds to APV employees, thus reducing the budget deficit. So a few measures were proposed. An increase in income tax and VAT and a rise in earnings at the level of a solidarity tax that was before this latest cut. The basis for this is to make a payment from the tax debtors who are the biggest debtors and which also makes it a major deficit. But the obvious problem is that this is being realised by an inefficient tax administration. This ruling coalition has managed Serbia for two and a half years in this or that combination, but in all these two and a half years, we have been listening only to the findings that the tax administration has found in a catastrophic state, and nothing has been done to reform the tax administration and to collect taxes and especially the debtors who owe the most. The only thing that's been passed is the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration that can't be applied again, because there are no conditions. Is there no political will or courage to make tax payments that would greatly contribute to budgeting? I can't judge it, but let those who need to worry about it think about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17721	The word is Goran Mladenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidents, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, which determines the revenue and receipt of expenditure and expenditure in next year's budget, is a bold and bold concept of next year's budget, and needs to support this draft budget as a whole without the need to adopt any amendments, either on the side of the revenue side of the expenditure of this 2015 budget projection. When I say so, this remark applies, among other things, to the amendment proposed by Mrs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, which proposes to increase the total revenues of the largest taxpayers of 45 billion dinars, as well as to increase the income tax on citizens and value added tax in the country by 44.7 billion dinars, while at the same time reducing revenues based on a reduction in public sector earnings to 12 billion dinars, further proposing the return of the amount of earnings and pre-reduction contributions, as well as increasing the transfer of funds to the AP Vojvodina employees. This amendment should not be accepted for any more reason. First of all, at the last session of the National Assembly, we received a promise from the Minister of Economy, Mr Vujovic, that during 2015, a law on the financing of AP Vojvodina will be proposed, and we MPs undertake to adopt this law which will address all issues concerning the transfer of money to the AP Vojvodina. So the amendment relating to the transfer of funds to the AP Vojvodina is unnecessary and excessive. Secondly, by returning earnings to a pre-reduction level raises the issue of increasing the budget deficit, which is contrary to the government's policy, which would raise the issue of reform, and which is certainly questioning the stabilisation of public finances proposed by this budget concept. For the simple reason that the increase in income in the way you propose is the probability of realisation uncertain and uncertain, and on the other hand the return of earnings to the previous level on the bulky side balanced on the side of income is safe and certain. This amendment is dangerous and raises the issue of the growth of the budget deficit and thus opens the issue of the difficult measures we have taken so far, their efficiency, their effectiveness, their effectiveness, and the measures that must be taken in the period ahead. As a third, I see no reason, and any resident of any territory would be excluded from cutting profits and contributions, regardless of whether he lives in Vojvodina, Shumadia, eastern Serbia. If the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are accepted in southern Serbia, where is the lowest standard of living, if the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the reduction of earnings and contributions are agreed by residents of the municipalities of the Shop, Leban, Majornik, Bosilegrad, Surdulice, Vladic's Han, if the 40 municipalities of the most undeveloped are agreed, why would the population of the AP Vojvodina disagree with these measures? I would certainly take this opportunity, given that we are discussing an amendment relating to income and expenditure and which is certainly affecting the budget deficit that I personally propose to the Ministry of Economy and the Minister of Economy one measure that would be of general satisfaction to all in the state of Serbia. It is, in fact, the Law on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt, which was made as a "lex specialis" in 2012, for legal and natural persons who are scheduled to pay their current obligations in the period from 1 November 2012 to 31 December 2013, and for natural persons to pay their current obligations in the period from 1 November 2012 to 31 December 2014. That, after the end of that period, the principals have been paid off since 2013 for legal persons, i.e. through the end of 2014 for individuals of 24 equal wars, after which the interest would be written off for their debts. For this measure, many legal and natural persons applied in 2012, and it seemed that a large part of the claim would be charged, which at that time seemed to be non-refundable. However, due to the length of the time period to which the measure was applied. Almost 90% of natural and legal persons have fallen out of the system. It happened that during one month they did not pay one war based on current obligations or did not pay one war based on the principal and automatically fell out of the state of rest. In this way, the opportunity to collect uncharging claims has been missed. Your claims, those taxpayers, they don't even pay anymore. They simply are not able because interest exceeds the principal amount, and in some cases both the principal and the interest in the whole. The state was denied income, and this applies to the tax duties at the place, so local self-governments have lost a lot in this way, and taxpayers remain burdened with tax debt and tax obligations. In view of the fact that a good tax is only a chargeable tax, I would suggest the adoption of a new law on the constitutional write-off of interest and the suspension of the tax debt, by which it would refer to a shorter period of time. Six months to one year to settle current obligations and principals, and after that, a one-time write-off of the corresponding interest should be made. This increases revenues in the budget of local self-government, revenues in the RS budget, and in this way we relax our natural and legal persons and I say that this is one of the measures that would go to the general satisfaction of everyone in the state, the state of Serbia, local self-government, natural, legal persons, our population and our economy. I believe this is one way to increase the real revenues of our budget, to reduce the budget deficit, and not by adopting the proposed amendment with all due respect to Ms Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17723	Ministers, you need to make a deal. He's only got one two minutes right. It says in the Rules of Procedure, I have to repeat, one once two minutes. Who wants it from the ministers?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17724	Now, I want to because I'm getting three proposals that are obviously very constructive, to repeat how we count what is accepted as a conservative estimate of income, and how we view it as so-called. ‘Abside’. So, what does this "soft" measure mean? Soft measures and reality. Taxes on newly created value, excises and all similar taxes related to economic activity are calculated against those parameters that we, with the control of all others, are very conservatively designed. What does that mean? That means we're putting in numbers that may be even less than your realistic expectations because we don't want to give ourselves any unreal obligations. Compared to one, like a jump up, why put the first height you need to take down at 220 centimeters and bring it down and then it's all gone? And if you're doing it gradually, you're not cutting yourself off at all, I'm not saying that 440 is neither good nor unrealistic, but in a situation where you're falling fuel prices, which is one of the significant sources of VAT, in a situation where certain prices are stagnating, in which we project stagnation and decline in consumption and export growth, I like your proposal and I wish I could expect 40% higher net domestic VAT. I don't think that's realistic in the situation where we expect export growth, so the vomiting will be bigger, in which we fall VAT on gasoline and on other products. Therefore, if this happens, it will be very easy to adapt and involve it in the process. Second, very important. It's that side...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17725	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17726	... where higher incomes simply require higher expenditure. Someone will say, why would you lower the deficit to 110 or 112? It's 10 billion a month, it's unrealistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17727	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by the MP of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17728	Dear Presidents, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic with colleagues, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, my amendment is to continue in the series of amendments in which we are trying to correct the draft budget. It refers to pages 3 and 4. The position 2 must be changed automatically. So, as far as income is concerned, we're proposing an increase in corporate income tax. My colleague talked about it. So I'm potentialing a better tax collection. There are a lot of taxpayers and you know it well and only 50%, the first 93 would bring us 45 billion dinars. Furthermore, income tax and VAT can also bring close to 45 billion dinars. More specifically, 44.7 and we are encouraged by the data presented by Prime Minister Vukic and Minister Vujovic that in recent months there has been an extremely good increase, i.e. tax collection. A few minutes, Minister Vujovic voiced concern about the profit reduction, that this would lead to reduced consumption, and the VAT will not increase to that extent. And that's what we had in mind, so we cut 25.7 billion income from the cuts in the public sector. More specifically, we suggest that it return to that reduction, the so-called solid tax, because it's kind of progressive and fairer. The illustrations work, by the current reduction in austerity measures, all of us with the highest incomes, there I, over 100,000, receive more than when the solidarity tax was. The president of the country, the prime minister, the ministers, we all receive more. It's fairer to be progressive, and that's why we're proposing it and within the framework...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17729	You've wasted your time with the MPs' group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17730	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17731	Thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17732	Thank you. If I overstep, I'll use the time of the head of the parliamentary group. The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a very clear goal that we have from our parliamentary group. The goal next year, as of January 1st, is to return salaries and pensions to the level that was prior to their reduction, to pay back to educators, doctors, soldiers, police officers, university professors and others you took those salaries to, cut and pay back pensions. That, believe me, is very easy. Even your incompetent government can do that, and I'm deeply convinced she's incompetent. What do you need to do? According to this amendment, you need to increase VAT collection by 5% to 6% and save about 40-50 billion. The colleagues have also submitted other amendments that would increase income, and this would solve other issues. Here, now I have military homeless people who have been waiting for years for your promises and pre-election that you will solve their question, as well as a number of other issues, only with a little effort, by finally naming the Director of the Tax Administration. It was very interesting to listen to Prime Minister Vukic talking about a very strange phenomenon, that people work better when they are in V.D. The state, so a certain gentleman who now v.d. Director of the Tax Administration praised how he works because he's probably in fear that he might not be appointed director. It is a new reality in the theory and practice of management, or something called system management or state leadership. Maybe someone will patent it, but that V.D. director, if he's so efficient, could organize that tax administration, if he needs to increase the number of tax inspectors, send them to the field and conduct a monthly analysis of the effects, so it wouldn't happen that we have more and more of those going into the gray zone every day. Why? Because their colleagues are in the gray zone, nothing's happening to them, they're making more money, and the people I mentioned are enlightened, people in public services, teachers, young people going across the border. Tens of thousands of young people have gone from the north of Backa. How are we going to make it up to you, do you have an answer to that? They left because they don't see the perspective, because they don't see the possibility of being in 2015/2016. A year to live better, because you say it yourself in this budget. You say yourself you can't. Here, I ask Mr Vujovic - is it true, Mr Vujovic, if I am not deceived by the bill, that in 2013 we had a higher charge of fiscal income than you plan in 2015? So, you've raised taxes, you've increased excise duties and you're planning less income collection on that side than in 2013.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17733	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17734	I can accept anything, but to call the military homeless the promoter of this amendment, it's like Harry Potter to me truthfully. Because they were supposed to report to him in 2012, 2011 and 2010 and all those years when they ran this country, and the military homeless remained military homeless. As for this idea of increasing VAT collection by 4 to 5%, and it will solve all the problems, I say it won't, but I'll be happy to show in these two minutes where the salaries went to the educators, the doctors, where pensions went to the pensioners. I have a clear analysis of the budget proposed for 2015 compared to the implementation for 2011 and 2012 respectively. For example, based on the European Integration Office, travel costs for 2015 are seven million, and the amendment promoter spent 10 million in 2011. The same European Integration Office in 2015 envisions 13 million and 700 dinars, with 51 million dinars spent in the 2011 budget. Dear pensioners, you see your pensions disappear on various contracts and on various trips, including for these Pajtic trips. I don't know where he's going to travel with $15 million. Furthermore, the Staff Management Service, contract services – two million and 526 thousand dinars are scheduled for 2015 and 32 million dinars have been spent in the 2012 budget. It's only 16 times more. The government's airline, travel expenses for 2015 are nine million dinars, and in 2012, 20 million and 400...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17735	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17736	Here's one more thing. Let's just say, just for that Air Force Service, I'll report thoroughly, there are dozens and dozens of papers here. Services under contract – 20 million scheduled for 2015 and the amendment promoter, the one who cares so much for educators, spent 62 million dinars in 2011. Gentlemen educational workers, gentlemen pensioners, doctors, all those with reduced salaries, are reduced salaries precisely because of the amendment's proposings, and here's where they spent and how they spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17737	Thank you. Please refuse 48 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Veselinović, on what basis? You're the one who caused the replica. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Can I answer? I'm the amendment promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17738	Thank you, Your Honor. I can show how many housing needs of homeless soldiers have been solved in four years. Five thousand housing units have been built and assigned apartments, and since you came to power, unfortunately none. That's why I got a message from the military homeless from Vojvodina, who know how it was then, and how it's done now. On the other hand, when it comes to collecting tax revenues, you have no argument. All fiscal revenues are down. We have a rock drop in harvesting, although the basics have increased, or tax rates have increased. What does that mean? This means that fewer users, and when it comes to VAT, are ordinary citizens to whom you cut salaries and pay even higher tax obligations, a smaller number of taxpayers pay even more taxes, and you unfortunately use it for the wrong reasons, in a way that you say these days you finance JAT. You don't finance JAT, you give some significant funds instead of a salary, you give a foreign investor. Maybe it's a good job and maybe Serbia won't have any damage to it, but I would ask him something else if Mr. Vujovic was there. Mr. Vujovicu, remember when we talked four or five months ago about a famously missing contract with Etihad.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17739	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17740	I'm done. You said you couldn't find him. The other day, Mr. Vukic said one word, that in the meantime, the foreign investor had given up. We first heard about it. Is that true?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17741	The word has Dr Dusan Vujovic, but you have already spoken to Mr Vujovic on this amendment. You can't. It's not right, Mr. Veselinovic, to throw it away like this. If you don't mind, I'd like to give my word to Mr Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17742	Thank you. Just for public information. Here's the number. So, in 2013 and in 2014 to 23 December, so another week left, total tax revenues were 723 billion, now 754 billion. It means more. Total revenues, all combined were 812, now are 856. I can do it in the details. That's what they've accomplished. Real results. It's official data. Look, there were 380 billion VAT nets. It's imports and net domestic, now it's 408. So all the key categories are bigger – achieved. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Planned. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17743	Please don't throw it to Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17744	It's an achievement. What's the achievement? The achievement of 2013, the whole year and the achievement of 2014 from January 1st to December 23rd, will be even greater. All categories are bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17745	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17746	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not really gonna call again, I'm just using the replica to bring up the DS. So I really don't want to cause controversy and contention, absolutely. I just need the truth to tell the following facts. In any case, Serbia, a country where the economic situation is so difficult and the standard of citizens has fallen, every million who throws themselves in the face of Serbian citizens is causing justifiable anger among citizens because every number they hear today is, in some ways, bad and provocative, from whatever side they come from. But I need the truth to say that it is not correct to show things as they are not, only Minister Vulin, as well as every minister in the government, like you, Minister Vujovic, has his own budget travel fund. Only Minister Vulin has over 40 million dinars. Mr. Vukic, the Prime Minister also has the costs of his travels, that's fine, but say that there is a significant part of those costs that are hidden, because the military is providing him and the army is transporting him. Thus, you do not read the correct figures, Mr Babic, but this is such a specific problem, when I know that Serbia, through its competences, through its needs, through its surface, through the number of inhabitants, is more demanding by budget, which is paid by Serbian citizens and thus billions are about the cost of tens of millions in the province. I don't know what you're trying to prove. Now, that's what I don't understand, that Pajtic has fewer travels, so he has more than a prime minister, multiple, but that's not the point. We proved to you through the numbers that it could have been saved in one place so as not to cut wages and pensions. I think that's the point. All this other stuff I don't think is really going anywhere, because you know very well that the travel expenses of the Prime Minister are not presented in those numbers, Mr. Babic, with all due respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17747	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The words of the SNS parliamentary group chief, Mr. Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17748	Every penny is important and important. I can read and I can watch the budget, I can't look at any other documents and anything hidden. There's no hidden. No more costs below the line. That's what the IMF said anyway. What can be compared and compared to 422 travel costs by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia 2,700,000 dinars, travel expenses by Prime Minister Bojan Pajtic 15,200,000 dinars, six times higher. That's what compares. Where's he going? How's it going? Why are they spending? Why isn't he saving? What are his ingenuity at least in international contexts? But what didn't I get an answer for? I didn't get an answer to what was already there. Here, let's move on. The Ministry of the Interior, travel costs 880,000,000 dinars scheduled for 2015, with a budget for 2011 and 2012, respectively, a billion and 100 million. Same ministry, same people, 300 million dinars less. Services provided for in the contract for 2015 are 5 million 670 000 dinars, thus showing savings, the 2011 budget, i.e. 297 million, 60 times higher. So how many pensions did that go to the M.O.P.? We want to move on. Okay, let's say the Department of Criminal Penalty. Let's go local, there's a lot of paper here. I'll read every item.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17749	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17750	Here, I'll just take a minute. Services under contract envisioned 29 million, previously spent 35. Specialized services, I don't know what specialized services are at the Department of Criminal Sanctions, for 2015 17.5 million dinars, and in 2011, or in 2012, 39.5 million dinars, that's twice as much. How many pensions went that way?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17751	You only got as much as Mr. Stefanovic got. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17752	It's a business thing. Mr. Becic, you've broken several members, 107th and 106th. So, first of all, today is not the topic of the regional government's budget. The second you let... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: And that was yesterday.) They're dropping now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17753	Please, Mr. Granny, don't throw it away. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: It is in your manner, Mr. Sutanovac.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17754	I'm not Mr. Shutanovac, maybe in your neighborhood like that, but I'm a Shutanovac. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I did not grow up in Mirieva.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17755	Please, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17756	About where you grew up, bad behavior best talks, best. So, all the time they're changing the thesis. You allow government officials to say things that aren't on the agenda and then there's still extended time. So you gave the minister half an hour ago four minutes ago, we had an understanding. Then your colleague, the President of Parliament, came and cut our MPs down for two minutes. Then you give Mr. Babic two and a half minutes. What's this about? So the cost of 422, never had the Serbian government as large as today, which is 65 billion per contract services, 135m euros. Thirty thousand salaries a month will be paid by some party activists on your budget proposal. We agreed, Mr. Secretary. One thing is whether the budget is structured well, the other is whether it's good or bad. We think it's bad because in certain positions you have a disaster, you reduce pensions and wages to those who work, and you hire those who will come to temporary work through the campaign, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17757	I thank Mr. Sutanovac, but be so correct as to say that I am also the head of the parliamentary group, your group (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: seven seconds. ) Not exactly, Mr. Stefanovic said to finish the sentence, he was given the same opportunity to finish the sentence as long as it lasted. You also reported the same after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and then you replicated the Minister. Please, if you have any objections... (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: I did what my SNS colleagues do. Please, if you have any objections... . (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Why don't you ask Mr. Babic the same thing.) Don't beg me all day. ) Please, if you have any objections to the bill, please report for the amendment and submit those remarks. (Dragan Sutanovac, from the post: Of course, I have objections) Excuse me, ministers, Minister Stefanovic, Minister Vulin, said, but Business has the advantage. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17758	Article 107. I know that someone here would like a different schedule and folk MPs, that a different structure of the MPs, but that does not determine Mr Sutanovac, is determined by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections. But to that extent it goes to the determination, so to speak, and to impose on me what I can't say, that it can be said that, my God, a lot of money is given by the contract on the part of this budget, and that someone is hypersensive the moment I compare the same data, the same specialized contracts, the same contracts on the part, the same travel expenses with the time when Mr. Sutanovac voted for this budget, in the Government, not in the Assembly, it's terrible, inadmissible and I show and prove what Mr. Vukic said, a few days ago, 50-60% are less costs both on travel and on work contracts in relation to the time you spent unfeelingly in the debt of our country. After all, look, seven billion dinars of the state spend less on goods and services, but you want cheerleaders, like, on some stadium, but very rough and very unfounded in the truth to say some things, and when, in fact, the number by number, the item by item proves that you spent, what you did, then it's forced that I can't speak. I can't even enter the assembly, Mr. Chairman. If we ask Mr. Shutanovec, I don't think I could go in on the drum stream. It is as if Serbia is only Belgrade, as if Serbia is not both Šumadija and Kragujevac, and Vrnjačka Banja and Subotica and Prepolje. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, please inform him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17759	Time. Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Sutanovac, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17760	Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. Dear counterpart Babic obviously wants to make some distinction in relation to central Serbia and Belgrade. You should know that I am from Toplice, that my mother is from Kopalnik, I was born in Belgrade, hardly that you can love Serbia more than I do, or that I want to love her more than you do. It just can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17761	Mr. Sutanovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17762	Why are you interrupting me now? You give everyone two minutes, so let me finish. But let me make a mistake. .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17763	You'll get two minutes, but please, you didn't mention it. Allow me, you're warning me not to allow the Rules of Procedure to be replicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17764	But why do you always warn me?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17765	I'm begging you. You are mentioned, you have the right to a replica, you will receive a replica and speak for two minutes, but do not abuse the Rules of Procedure. And I'm not going to let any more abuses report to the Rules of Procedure. Sign up again, you have two minutes, a replica after you've been mentioned, and then replicate, but don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17766	We're basically different here. Essentially. Because you consider yourself a success, a reduction in the deficit that will be paid by employees and pensioners. It's a completely different policy understanding compared to what we've been doing. It may have been higher in certain positions in our time, but you forget the most important thing, so you cut people's salaries and pensions, increased all taxes, charged 7.5 billion, and today the finance minister tells us that in the next three years, there will be a decline in GDP and a drop in purchasing power. So, three next years, you're supposed to run this country by talking about what happened in 2008. It's nothing. It's not helping. I didn't mention anyone, to be clear. Because if you respect the Rules of Procedure, I'll be interested in how someone will get a replica. So, Mr. Minister, first of all to you, unfortunately the budget is poorly structured. So you're under-stuctured. There's too much cost at points where they shouldn't be. The Joint Affairs Authority will have 12m euros in software available. Do you know what my colleague Atlagic will do, how much tomorrow, the day after tomorrow? Well, that's how a colleague, for you when you hear software, a computer, it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17767	Please, just don't talk to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17768	Well, no, because the other day the software was talked about by a man who probably understands it a little bit, said how much it cost, 11-12 times more separate now. Do you understand? So it's a bad budget structure and it's not your fault. It's just politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17769	Theme, Mr. Sutanovac, I just need to warn you that time is running out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17770	Everything you said, what you said, that you're not a politician, this is a political matter. You may have made an estimate of income, an estimate of expenditure, but inside the budget is a disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17771	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17772	Don't say that, Mr. Martinovic. Mr. Martinovic has one remark. There were great software masters there, and these great software masters showed us in the past six, seven years, as they were great masters for other things, how the economy of a country was successfully destroyed. Some MPs are right when they say -- we do have a different understanding of politics, and this government is completely different from that of politics. It doesn't lead to a policy of borrowing in a way that lays off workers from the private sector, destroys private companies, sells them as aimless, leaves hundreds of thousands of people on the street, and then we have the first time in 2013, when we were able to measure the number of employees in the public sector, that we have 780,000 employees in the public sector, 780,000. We have information that DS hired at least 280 of those 780,000. Well, no one can stand it, so they can't take it. We can't hire all their party officials. Absolutely not. I know that now that the state is finally consolidated, when we're trying to make a budget that can withstand all the burdens it has left us, and it says -- why do we always come back? So we have to explain to people how the state is destroyed. It wasn't destroyed by Alexander Wolf. It was destroyed by the people who owed Serbia irresponsible politics from 2008 to 2012, boasting of the increase in wages, but it was at the expense of borrowing now due to the next generation. That was the problem. The aggregate demand is absolutely no smaller and I listened here today and about travel costs and I saw an amendment regarding the MUP. I just need to explain to people that the cost of travel to the MUP is, for example, transporting people to the ground area of security. You're asking us not to send the gendarmes into the ground security area anymore? Are you asking us no longer to send people to protect the safety of this country? Then say so. Not to be guided, to explain to people, God knows how, paragraph 422 - travel expenses. I guess someone's driving. It's the transport of people who protect this country. We've reduced those costs compared to the previous budgets by almost 20%, and we've maintained the efficiency of the MUP, I think these results we've achieved and shown. So, I don't know what the point of this debate is, I guess you're hiding all these things from the past, but I also see and expect that when some arguments are made we're just expecting or threatening or someone is going to tell us "store one". I don't know what to expect from those two.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17773	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. (Marco Atlagic, from the place: Replica, I have been waiting 10 minutes. Wait a minute, since we've got more logs, just a little bit. Wait a minute, Mr. Atlagic. Well, yeah, but you can't answer the Rules of Procedure. You can get a replica if you mention it. Well, you'll get a line, not a problem, just to get your turn. The word has, before you, an advantage has a minister. The word is Alexander Vulin, I apologize, first according to the Rules of Procedure. I apologize, Mr. Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Mr Becic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has just been injured by the Rules of Procedure in Article 108, which states in its first position that the session of the National Assembly is the old president, or the chairman of the National Assembly. Dear gentlemen, in order for the chairman or president to be able to take care of himself, it is necessary that he knows the rules set out in that Rules of Procedure, and that all of us here follow these rules, gentlemen. According to these rules, our guests in the National Assembly, and the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia today are our guests in the National Assembly, have the right to speak two minutes after one amendment in response to the appearance of a national MP, Mr Becic, and once. We followed this rule all day long, and now you've allowed Mr. Becic, who had just entered this assembly, he hasn't been here all day to talk for three minutes, to talk about some things, Mr. Becic, which are not about what's contained in the amendment to Article 1, which was just presented here. I believe it is obvious that you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic. We, MPs, and you are one of the MPs here, must strictly adhere to procedures and rules. It's the only way we'll show our guests today and every time they come here that the most important thing that we all have to stick to is in the legislative body and in the executive authority, what's written in Article 3 of our Constitution, Mr. Becic, which the government doesn't adhere to, and that's the principle of rule of law, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17775	Mr Pavicevic, but you did not read below, in that article, that in two minutes, a total of three hours. So, if any of the ministers, for the sake of the quality of the debate, in this case, Mr Stefanovic appeared for the first time, we can, as well as some other MPs, tolerate today to be a little out of line if it contributes to the quality of the debate. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Don't contribute. Well, that's what you think. Other MPs think they contribute, and they will give their opinion when we vote on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: To vote. I thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: No right. Mr. Pavicevic, don't judge me as chairman. Well, he's right. So, for the first time, Mr. Vulin has the right to explain this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17776	You know, it's been a night...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17777	I'm sorry, Mr. Vulin, you have an extra one, but you still had the right to a replica. Here you go, Mr. Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17778	You see, it is not the obligation of all ministers in this government to sit in parliament, but it is the obligation of all MPs to sit in parliament all the time. As we can see, there are more ministers in the government here than MPs in the opposition again. But we will, of course, be happy, out of respect for our Parliament, here and try to answer every question, but don't forbid us then to answer your questions. This is where the travel expenses were mentioned. We already talked about it once, but I guess it was night so there's not a lot of people watching, so gentlemen would like to try and talk about it one more time and give them the exact same answer that's only true. The ministry I run, among other things, not only has an incomparably smaller budget for travel but, say, Bojan Pajtic, but the ministry I run participates in 35 chapters in Brussels, 35, and I assume you consider it good. You consider it good to go there and fight for the interests of our country and for the opening of some chapter. Of course, this figure includes every stamp for every secretary and every employee, and that's our travel expenses. Be precise when you talk about it. Don't try to make what you really aren't, and don't talk about what we, in my ministry, even abolished our own journals when we go abroad and abroad. Your MPs criticised me for thinking it was wrong, but we suspended voluntarily, we lifted our own diaries to save. I'm not sure that in a province or any other administration, that kind of thing happens. It's just like when an MP here tried to attack our ministry for...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17779	Time, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17780	All right. I'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17781	Thank you. Are you looking for a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, or for the amendment? (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I beg you, Mr Bozovic, that we no longer report after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. It's not right for the citizens, for the sake of quality, for the importance of this debate. You have the right to report by amendment. Comment and give your arguments for accepting an amendment, or supporting an amendment, but do not report to the Rules of Procedure and turn this into a replication where citizens will not have the opportunity to hear what is important to their future. Here you go, but this is a request, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17782	I thank the chairman. I'm also asking that you do not violate the Rules of Procedure, so we will not report after the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17783	Say which member and how did I break it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17784	Article 108, on the agenda of the Assembly, is the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17785	That's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17786	Because of the breach of order at the session, the president of the National Assembly can give the measures. You still know everything. A moment ago, Minister Vulin explained what the obligations of the MPs were in this house, and you did not interrupt him and told him that, as my former colleague, Mr Pavicevic, said, Article 3. The Constitution, the rule of law, which is the premise of the Constitution, is thus in violation. There's a clear division of power, there's a way of knowing who he chooses and who he answers to. With that in mind, I ask you to respect the laws, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17787	I thank Mr. Bozovic. Mr. Vulin was entitled to a replica. In the replica, it can replicate whoever caused the replica. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: He can tell us what our obligations are. ) If we interpret each word, none of you can answer it because in each of you, each MP, I can find a word that can be interpreted one way or another. Please return to the amendments and discuss the amendments because I think it is very important for the citizens of Serbia. The word has Alexander Vulin, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17788	Here, I want to apologize. I'm sorry I told you it would be good for the opposition MPs to sit in the bench like the MPs of the majority. I'm sorry, please, that you were supposed to be here for your salary. I'm sorry, don't be angry. I'll never do it again. In the ministry that I run, people sit or work eight hours as long as they have to sit and work and there's little excuse to leave their jobs. All right, you have an excuse, I'm sorry, I was wrong, you don't have to be in parliament at all, you don't have to sit anywhere, you don't have to do anything, it's all your right, I'm really sorry, it won't happen again to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17789	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17790	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, since I was mentioned by the former minister of defense from the former government in a negative context and because he presented incorrect information, and let me deny it, and you know very well that gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament that I am not taking data from the street and the press, but from the state institutions. I may not know the information, but I do know, that the former defence minister in the former government of the Republic of Serbia is headed by a previous speaker, or MP, unfortunately he is not here now among us, he often says so, so he escapes, while obtaining a mobile radio-real connection system via "Yugochemia" on course differences, damaged Serbia's budget for about 270 million dinars, completed a quote, the state auditor's report. Secondly, the same defence minister in the former government of the former regime, sitting among us here today as a MP and harassing us since this morning, I quote: “I paid for software upgrades... “
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17791	Please, Mr. Atlagic, adjust your replica. The apostle you mention is not there, so wait when he returns.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17792	Paid for upgrade of software for VMA 850,000 euros. That's as much as four times as that computer program cost to buy a new one. The million-dollar repair software was declared military secret, and I think I have good data, it wasn't in use until 2013. This is for the sake of accuracy and the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17793	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what former regime members hide as a snake's feet is the fact that in May 2011, the International Monetary Fund by public letter, published in the daily "Politicals", made it clear that the policy led by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic would lead Serbia to a stalemate. On 9 February 2012, the IMF froze a precautionary arrangement with Serbia, among other things, because it failed to convince the government of the Republic of Serbia about excessively high guarantees for public enterprises. I'm not going to read the entire IMF letter, I don't think there's a need for that, but a few basic things just citizens need to know. Like it or not like the IMF, think about it this or that, the fact is that what's written in this letter is quite true and that the IMF forecasts were correct. The letter, among other things, says that over the past ten years, income per capita in Serbia with almost double the amount compared to other countries in Eastern Europe has fallen to only half the amount that the countries are currently achieving. So, I'm talking about 2011, in the year of the Democratic Party's absolute power, when they ruled the state of Serbia, when they had absolute power in the province, when they had power in most local self-government in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17795	Mr. Martinovic, just connect it to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17796	Yeah, it's absolutely all about the amendment. Furthermore, in the 2011 IMF letter, what the former regime's gentlemen do not want to admit is a good thing. That's what the IMF people say, imagine, Albert and Jager and Bogdan Lisovolik. That's not what Zoran Babic says, that's not what Aleksandar Vukic says, that's what the IMF people say. It says -- 20 years ago, Serbia exported about 70% of its production as the Republic of the former Yugoslavia. Today, it only exports 25% of everything they produce. However, transforming the Serbian economy from its current unsustainable growth model based on the pre-named public sector, which favours consumption and imports into a growth model dominated by the private sector, favouring savings and exports, is a complex and often politically unpopular task. Today, one former regime MP told us – it is easy to cut salaries and pensions and put it into the budget. No, it's a hell of a job. The SNS was supposed to come to power and make that politically unpopular move. That's how you can see it from this letter. Imagine Albert Jager and Bogdan Lisovolik giving a blood test of the then leaders of the Republic of Serbia. It says -- the fact is that Serbian politicians are more than willing to promise the population a shortcut to a better standard of living through unrealistic and fiscal promises, especially promising unsustainable high wages in the public sector and pensions or too low taxes. This kind of fiscal promise is particularly tempting during pre-election periods. Here, listen to us citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Is it noted in Serbia's political history that the president of a political party, I mean Alexander Vukic, said in the election campaign -- people, so we have to cut salaries and pensions, we'll go bankrupt in a year, we have to reduce the pre-named public sector, drown the state, it won't work? The only politician who did this was Alexandra Vukic. It wasn't us who pre-named that public sector. We didn't unrealisely increase wages and pensions. We now carry the burden of something someone else did. There's no harder task than this, and the problem in the country is so much that it's a little not one, not a hundred, not a thousand Wolfs to solve these problems. This gentleman who escaped from the scene when he caused a car accident said it was about the atmosphere...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17797	Mr. Martinovic, don't, please, let's get into the controversy. Explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17798	I'm discussing the amendment. I'm sorry, but I don't allow morale lessons and what needs to be done to keep people running from the scene, who have broken the official Super V damage, if I'm not mistaken, and left the scene and then say that the bad atmosphere in the National Assembly is no one else's fault but Alexander Vukic. Here, I'll take the opportunity to have Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic present here. Mr Stefanovic, the AP Vojvodina budget was adopted yesterday. This is where the MPs whose president is Bojan Pajtic are sitting. From 2011 to 2013 during the implementation of the project for the needs of accommodation and stay of children distracted in the municipality of Novi Becej adaptation of a castle called ‘Hatterland’, an anti-legal property benefit was provided to a company from Novi Sad in the amount of 541,000 euros and to another company of about 113,000 euros. In the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development of the AP Vojvodina, when projects are allegedly designed for technological preparation and construction of new facilities in the areas of new technologies in municipalities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, 114 projects have been identified as absolutely controversial, as projects that record obvious abuses and machinations. The fund for the development of the AP Vojvodina, the bank of the pig DS during pre-election campaigns, of 1,059 loans at least 209 loans are considered suspicious and controversial claims. Shall we talk a little bit about the Vojvodina Development Bank, and let the citizens see why we've taken such difficult measures?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17799	Mr. Martinovic, I cannot allow you to speak anymore unless you put it in the context of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17800	I'm done, just two more sentences. I'm putting it in the context of the amendment. You know, it's really hard to carry someone else's burden on their backs. That's what we do. I'll just say two more sentences. Do you want to talk a little bit about the Vojvodine Development Bank? From 2010 to the end of 2012... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17801	Mr. Martinovic, I won't allow it anymore. You can't go on like that. The replica of Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17802	The Honorable Chairman, Article 27 and Article 106. So you keep breaking the Rules of Procedure. You allow representatives of the position, specifically SNS MPs, to speak beyond the agenda. It's been here since this morning on the agenda of the AP Vojvodina budget. I really do now, not to draw attention to you in any way, I ask you to take a break and invite Mr. Bojan Pajtic to sit there in the bench, to invite Mr. Mali, mayor of Belgrade, and to be able to address and say apart from the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, except for the rebalancing of the rebalancing, as some say in 2014, we will also consider the AP Vojvodina budget once again to give its verification. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17803	That's enough, Mr. Veselinovic. You have to tell your MPs first because they spent the morning talking about the Nis City budget and we're talking about everything, and we're not talking about the Republic of Serbia's 2015 budget. I ask you all to return to the 2015 budget debate of the Republic of Serbia. I will now give the replica to Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, as it is provided for the purpose of mentioning his name. Everything else goes back to the budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17804	I have to say, maybe you shouldn't be so hard on some of your colleagues, let's say, I think this proposal to call Bojan Pitiæ is not bad at all. He could answer many questions that are of interest to the citizens of Serbia, and some MPs have launched these topics, so it is not a bad proposal to call on him at all, to discuss with him how various funds were lending to various businesses and everything else. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Wait until we call him. I'm just explaining why I think it's good, let's say, what you suggested, nothing more. What Mr. Martinovic said, I haven't received the documentation by now, so please just forward to me what you had. It's very disturbing and disturbing if such abuse really happened and the police will investigate it. I have to tell you, we've launched an investigation into several funds, secretariats, etc. in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, precisely because there are enough indications that there were some actions I would not now qualify for, but certainly they were not in accordance with the law. However, we will, of course, inform the public when the time is right for what we've discovered, what's done. What is completely irrefutable, is what, to say and in the period before the government started, and these are disclosures, we mean those governments where Aleksandar Vukic was the first vice president in charge of fighting corruption and crime. What happened with Vojvodina Development Bank and that's scandalous, because as a state, we lost 400m euros, which is one of the reasons why the budget we're discussing today is what it is. Had it not been for such a point, if such an agreement had not been made between politicians and tycoon, we would have had a comparable easier situation today and at least 400m euros more to give to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17805	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17806	Article 107, Mr. Becic. I suggest that, as you know from history in your own time, a list of banned books that certain believers should not have read, that you should enter a list of banned words for the MPs of the former regime at the entrance to the National Assembly, e.g. "Vojvodine Development Bank", this must not be mentioned in the National Assembly, the government of the AP Vojvodina, is not to be mentioned in the National Assembly, the Capital Investment Fund, nor should it be mentioned in the National Assembly. This amount of money embezzled, robbed, kidnapped, it has nothing to do with the 2015 budget of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia. So, make a list of forbidden words that we in the SNS cannot use because the MPs of the former regime are called, and there are them, their fingers and the "Vojvodine Development Bank" and the Capital Investment Fund and the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development, wherever you bury, the fingers of the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17807	Mr. Martinovic, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, because I haven't received such a memo yet. If I win, I'll put it in the process. The word is made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, following the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17808	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, believe it or not, we are still talking about the amendment that I have submitted, and he was concerned with my proposal to increase tax revenues by more taxing those in the gray zone and thus allowing the pay to be paid back to the level that was before the salary and pensions were reduced, and I have not heard any arguments against it. No one told me those funds couldn't be collected, none of the ministers. That's why I expect you to accept that amendment. The only thing I've heard is that Mr. Jaeger, the other day I heard the ambassador of one country, the other, the third, not to mention them, support all of this, but they, unfortunately, don't receive the salary of an educational worker, they don't receive the salary of a police officer, and that's none of their business in that sense. They can say whatever they want, but they're not in the skin of a man who's received five, six, seven thousand wages this month. On the other hand, what has just been said that Mr. Vukic has promised to cut wages, I would say, is not exactly what he explicitly said, but it is the only promise he has made to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17809	Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. On what basis? You're right to need a replica, but on what basis can Mr. Martinovic replicate? [[Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Don't you think you need a replica, mentioning SNS, Alexander Vukic?]] (Zoran Babic, from the post: As deputy head of the parliamentary group. But you are present. (National MP Zoran Babic takes the card out of the electronic system and says, "Here, I'm not here." That's good. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, as deputy head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have made it very clear since the IMF's letter of origin, since May 2011. We are now adopting the 2015 budget. What the SNS asks the former regime's MPs, political geniuses telling us that we shouldn't have cut salaries and pensions, why didn't you take at least part of these difficult and painful measures in 2011, so today these people who have crocodile tears wouldn't be in a position to cut their salaries and pensions? Both our parents and our relatives, our friends and ourselves have been reduced both wages and pensions and no one is happy about it. You're being ridiculous to the IMF today. In time, the IMF was the world's most reference economic institution for DS. But it is sad that the IMF knew better than the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic in 2011 what would happen to us if they did not take action in time. We are now in this difficult economic situation because in time, measures have not been taken to draw your attention since 2011. We repeat once again, in February 2012, the IMF abolished, or suspended the precautionary arrangement...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17811	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17812	... because you have been giving too many guarantees to public companies, and today you are giving us lessons about how we are allegedly giving guarantees to "Srbigas" in other public enterprises. You can tell from the budget that's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17813	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Why now? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Let me explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, has been injured by Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states when a member of the Parliament has the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I am now doing, Mr. Becic. What happened before, Mr. Becic? You gave the word to Mr. Martinovic, past the Rules of Procedure. He could only speak on condition that Mr. Babic was not in the O.R. because he is head of the SNS parliamentary group. We all see Mr. Babic was in the O.R. and he's still in the O.R. Please, if, Mr. Becic, you are not sure if this is Mr. Babic, please, to determine the identity of this gentleman here, to see if this is Mr. Babic, or if you believe, Mr. Becic, that Mr. Zoran Babic has transformed himself into a parliamentary card, so that he, for example, is. doesn't hold a parliamentary card in the unit means it's not Mr. Babic. Mr. Becic, please, this really concerns the dignity of the National Assembly of our Legislative Body, which I keep repeating here is the sanctuary of our political life. Imagine, Mr. Becic, what the citizens now think and see that Mr. Babic is here. Mr. Babic says - I'm not here. Is this a ghost? Who is this gentleman? Mr. Becic, establish here. Another thing, please, when you address Mr. Stefanovic, whom you give your word to, please, to be careful with those "doctors".
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17815	Mr. Pavicevic, I don't think this makes sense. First, respect the Rules of Procedure. It says in the Rules of Procedure that an MP is obliged to enter an O.R. to insert a card. You don't put in a card when the quorum is determined, I don't see you sitting in the O.R., but you didn't insert the card. I can't use what you're in the O.R. If you didn't insert the card, I don't see you in the system. Mr. Pavicevic, the same arches must be in both cases. In the morning, when you determine the quorum, if you're in the O.R. and you haven't inserted the card, and you won't insert the card because you don't want to give the quorum, I'll also ask if it's your ghost in the O.R. or if it's you. Mr Pavicevic, it says in the Rules of Procedure that you are obliged to give the quorum, to insert the card when you enter the hall, and you do not. I don't see you in the system. You, too, are gone, although I can physically see that you're in the O.R. Mr. Babic checked out, he took out his card, he went out of the O.R., whether he came out or not, I don't see him in the system, and I can't count on an MP who's not in the system. Don't, if you're implying, if you're reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, at least be honest that you're not doing the same thing as asking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17816	I just wanted to talk to you, Mr. Becic. We went well. They could have told you again – the cattle one, as Zoran Zivkovic said to you just two days ago, could have told you something worse. Luckily they didn't, and they told you, we all saw, we were in this room, it's on TV. Fortunately, today at least no one calls you "stock". We were lucky.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17817	I thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Someone tried to explain it by calling the collective that, and I don't know how it's done in one. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17818	The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, is injured, Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. When he insults his colleague by transforming himself into some cards, I think it's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. However, there is much worse disrespect for dignity when the government is called upon, ministers are called upon, the Prime Minister is called upon, and when they come and attend the National Assembly meetings, respecting the National Assembly, respecting what it means, and then saying – why say ministers, why does the Prime Minister speak. Do you want ministers in the National Assembly or not, do you want them to speak or not to speak? Does it take darts for everyone to give a target to each of the ministers, so would they be happy? On the other hand, I agree on one thing. Yes, the National Assembly is a sanctuary, but this sanctuary is polluted by a statement by Zoran Zivkovic, which he worshiped you primarily, Mr. Chairman, all of us, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, calling us "stom". You don't come to the sanctuary with that language. You don't come to the sanctuary with such statements. Yes, I am for the respect of the procedure, Mr. Chairman, but I ask you to ask Mr. Pavicevic – which procedure brings a sandwich to the House of the National Assembly, in the O.R., with the procedure of breakfast and lunch in this room and thus pollutes this sanctuary of democracy, and what is the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17819	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I'm sorry that Mr. Zivkovic made that other statement, because I wish he'd just told me. When he tried to get justice and say he called all of us by that name, I'm sorry, because for the citizens of all the MPs, I wish that was just me. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, gentlemen of the Ministers, I believe that a member of 109 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm going to offer two arguments now. I'd like to make a statement in voting day whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been injured. First, Mr. Becic, Mr. Babic reported to the Rules of Procedure, and after that, he used the time he got, not to explain how injured the Rules of Procedure was, but to talk about what had occurred to him. That's one thing, Mr. Becic. Another thing that broke the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic spoke to you to ask me – what procedure is sandwiches being introduced into the assembly hall? Mr. Becic, please tell the Rules of Procedure Mr. Babic that one day here, all day, from morning till night, I have discussed one item of the agenda and that a member of the SNS has offered to bring me a sandwich here. Have Mr. Babic check with his MPs, with his deputy head of Parliament – which procedure brings the sandwich to the large hall of the National Assembly, respected gentlemen and Mr. Becic? I ask you now to stay here, to offer a serious explanation why you have not intervened before, told Mr. Babić that he has broken the Rules of Procedure and given him a certain measure, to start a warning, and after that, as you do to us from the opposition, Mr. Becic, and it is unfairly, a measure of warning, and then, if it is deserved, and that is estimated here, and a measure of distance from the session. That would mean, Mr. Becic, upholding the Rules of Procedure, the Law, the Constitution and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17821	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I can't give a warning measure to me that there's no rule about bringing food into the O.R. As you know, on that day, when you complained that someone wanted to bring in a chain package, I banned it from being done. Mr. Pavicevic, be honest and tell me at the moment that I said that whoever tried to enter the sandwich room would get a warning. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Tell Mr Babic. No, no. He just warned me there's no rules on entering... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Tell Mr Babic. I know, but Mr. Babic doesn't know. I see you don't know because the smell of food comes from your benches all the time. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17822	Very brief, Mr. Chairman. Article 108. I was asked by these lovely women who work at the House of the People's Assembly, who come an hour before us, who stay hours after us, really said that in those benches, where Mr. Pavicevic sits, they don't know what to do with the crumbs, the vacuum cleaners from these bags, the paper, the napkins, those crumbs. Please, on their behalf, don't do that again and pollute the congregation that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17823	I thank you, Mr. Granny. If you allow me to tell you that order in the National Assembly is an old Administrative Board, so I ask you to prescribe in the right way, to ask that the decisions of the Administrative Board be respected. Please, it's too important for us to continue this debate in the National Assembly. Once again, I ask the MPs that I will be forced to take a break if you do not continue to talk about the amendment. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, if she wants to talk about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17824	I use the time of authorised representatives of the DS parliamentary group to support the amendment submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic, as it is one of the amendments that colleagues from his parliamentary group have made to show how easy it was to decide how much it was to reduce wages and pensions and how difficult it is to explain and justify such a decision to anyone, and that it is not the easiest of all who can be made when it comes to saving and when it comes to a different approach and making a budget and a three-year budget plan for the Republic of Serbia's budget. No matter what style we benefit from, some of them were to reduce wages and pensions, and others like us and colleagues Janko Veseinović against reducing wages and pensions, because for good reason we consider them to be the easiest decision possible, so no matter how much style we use, no matter how much we try to show that it is inevitable because the government doesn't know what else to do, that it is a surprise, that no one would but, no matter how many sentences we show that Buk Bojan Pajtić is circulating SNS and argument, no matter how creatively we interpret the Rules of Procedure where each of us would have the right to say what it is for, and what it is against, remains a good amendment of MP Janko Vijetinović, who at least changes the better decision it was best to make and say – now we reduce salaries and pensions, because it is easy to make it, in fact that in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, there are very important and in order to send the ministers, that there are very serious and in order that the ministers that there is a problem that we can be able to make a lot of justice. It is the right, legitimate, for political communication such as our legitimate right to seek through dialogue and through discussion on the agenda, to oppose the undeniable right of one to be to reduce wages and pensions, and the government is for and the undisputed right of others to be against, and I am against and therefore against the amendment of counterpart Janko Veseinovic on at least one change in the location and position, so that this bad decision or its adverse effects at least decrease a little.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17825	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by National MP Branko Karavidic. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17826	Dear Ministers, we proposed the amendment to increase the total revenue in the budget by planning an increase in tax on the income of citizens and VAT. At the same time, we've reduced revenue based on the cuts in the public sector to 12 billion, which is actually at the level of the effects of the solidarity tax. It is also proposed to return the amount of earnings and contributions to the level before the reduction, while the income gap relative to the draft budget law is being redeployed to subsidies in the field of tourism. I note that the figures mentioned in our amendment have been taken from the 2014 Budget Proposal. These are the same numbers the government gave us a year ago. Thus, the accent was put on the effective work of the tax administration and on increasing the collection of income on citizens' income and increasing VAT collection. We have also proposed a return of earnings to the level of solidarity tax, which also entails a reduction in income based on a reduction in earnings, a return on earnings, a contribution to the level before the reduction. The income tax would also increase. Returning to profits would increase citizens' purchasing power and would increase consumption, thus increasing VAT revenues. Of course, all of this could be achieved strongly by insisting on greater efficiency of the tax administration. A few more important data we've heard these days assures me that it's possible to accept this amendment of mine, which is information that VAT collection is almost recordable or as someone says - we haven't had it recently.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17827	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17828	I suppose this trend will continue in 2015, and perhaps the VAT revenues are estimated to be suspicious.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17829	Thank you. Just to let you know that your MP group no longer has time, so this is an overrun where someone can report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure again. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17830	You see, the easiest thing would have been if we'd done the same thing the governments did before us, and that's to put ourselves in good debt by a few billion and put off the problem for a few years, raise salaries and pensions and be happy. That's the easiest. The most difficult thing was to say what had to be said – true. The situation is the way it is, these are the measures and this is the way. These measures and that way are again done to protect the poorest, because 60% of pensioners are not even touched, the lowest earnings are not even touched. But the easiest thing to say is – here we will increase your wages and pensions. I would be most fortunate if by administrative measure the amendment would increase salaries and pensions and fill the state budget – bravo. It's settled. It's settled. That's not possible, of course. Economically speaking, you want to raise wages and pensions, and at the same time you want to increase VAT. So, what you take away from your salary, what you give both your salaries and your pensions, you take away from them at VAT. What did we get by that? It's done the other way. You increase inflation, so you increase your salary and pensions, but you really hurt what we have from inflation. So it's not a matter of going from hollow to blank, it's a matter of achieving concrete savings measures, it's a matter of getting to the situation as it is and solving it. It's the easiest thing to talk about right now. We're gonna raise everyone's wages and pensions. Why didn't you do that? Why didn't you act responsible when you were in your position? How many decades does it take to prove what you know? How many decades is it gonna take to get us into that country of dembelia that you've been talking about here all along? Some things just aren't possible. Let's be realistic, be practical and talk as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17831	Mrs. Branka Karavidic, you haven't mentioned, we've passed your amendment so you don't have a chance to answer. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very important that we discuss one serious law seriously. I've said it more than once here, but I think it's important once again, Article 99. The Constitution says – The National Assembly adopts the budget, the final account on a proposal from the Government. In particular, let's focus on the amendments which, assumingly, need to be corrected by one of the government's bad proposals. This draft budget is respected gentlemen, I am sorry that Minister Vujovic is not here right now, I do not know whether Minister Vulin or Dr Stefanovic will speak instead, but here we have submitted an amendment to Article 1 and I have these three observations that are important. The first observation, on the revenue side of Table 2, says – income from the reduction of earnings in the public sector. Dear gentlemen, I guess it's called cutting expenditure, not income from cutting profits in the public sector. The second thing since it's gentlemen, we've noticed at point one and point four. — subsidies. Huge subsidies continue in our court, for economics, for the railways. We have here recommended that 14 billion be reduced from subsidies to the economy and to the railways and that that money, if it has to be deployed, go for a better economy, which is important to us for culture as well. Minister Tasovac isn't here either, he doesn't care about culture as well as freedom of speech and looks. Dear gentlemen, we have also suggested, since Mr. Loncar here said that the Health Insurance Fund is in excess, and now the Health Insurance Fund is 32 billion 900. We need this redistribution for a more just budget, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17833	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17834	Thank you, Mr. Becic. We were lucky again. They could have told us we were cattle, and we weren't, and I already consider that some progress in the discussion. As for these specific things, so excuse me, so that Alexander Vukic did not assign "The Railways", that Alexander Vukic did not in charge of Serbia's economy, that Alexander Vukic did not fire all those workers from 2008 to 2012? Well, these railway subsidies are being maintained by those people who work there and their families. These subsidies help us find strategic partners so that these companies can one day be sold to get to a healthier economy. Of course, the government is trying to demonstrate by rational consumption that, of course, it is not possible to grant subsidies to everyone and we have drastically reduced subsidies, but to companies that are of strategic interest to the Republic of Serbia it must continue at least in this attempt. I don't think there'll be any more of that kind of subsidisation after that. As far as the economy is concerned, I think it's just this kind of approach to a budget in which we're going to say responsible and concrete what it is that the government can do, how much money we have to save, and that budget deficit is reduced to something that is sustainable and realistic, only so do we tell the citizens of Serbia that we're going to break up with a false policy of borderless borrowing, the sale of everything and everything, and then pay it back to some of our children or grandchildren in the future. This is the only way to have a healthier economy and healthier society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17835	I thank Dr Stefanovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. You don't have a chance to replicate. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17836	Thank you. I use the time of authorised representatives of the DS parliamentary group to support the amendment submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. As in the previous case, it is necessary to share which argument and reason why we feel that we should use more carefully methodologically and think again about the decision that all the money that is due to this easiest decision, which is made – I reduce wages and pensions, is treated as non-tax revenues. I can understand that. It is one of the alternatives, but I also believe that it was necessary to listen carefully to MP Vladimir Pavicevic, primarily because, as an argument that he must now, there is nothing better, which is the easiest thing for us all here to know and you know that we all know, the benefits that 25 thousand pensions will not be reduced. You know, they're 25 grand because they went up in 2008. So there are criteria for some in that decision that are the easiest to implement, which is - to cut their salaries and pensions, and then these others, who are really big and hard obstacles to something that is common will in order, will get a clear message and will be scared. Those millions and sixty thousand pensioners have 25 thousand because they had an increase in pensions in 2008. Thus, when it comes to the way in which all the money that will be saved will be saved, conditionally speaking, it will not be paid because wages and pensions have been reduced. When it comes to that, it should be mentioned that there was a criterion why we do not want to go to a larger reduction in wages and pensions. That's how we'd like to talk about the criteria why they're not tax revenues. I'm not against it. So I fully understand and am not convinced by the amendment of counterpart Pavicevic that a different methodology would produce any other effect on the budget. I think it's important that the people of which you take with ease monthly 10%, that they know where those 10% will end because at the previous point of rebalancing, it was also partly the money that was the money of those who had a solid tax. It's important, completely clear and no doubt to explain to people what's going on with that money. That is the only reason I support the amendment submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17837	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17838	Here, no longer than 20 seconds. It is true that these pensions were increased in 2008, but on such grounds that in 2012, we had to sell everything from home, figuratively speaking, that it could and we still came to the brink of failure that these pensions could hardly be paid. We have come to the conclusion that unfortunately with a poor borrowing and increase policy when there was no economic basis, and not to mention the transfer of a huge burden from the private sector to the state sector, there was also the biggest employment in the state sector. Thus, the budget base of the Republic of Serbia was destroyed, unfortunately. I wish this government could say -- let's increase by 100%, by 200%, by 300%, but that would be irresponsible and we would take the future to Serbian citizens in such a way. That's the only difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17839	I thank Dr Stefanovic. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17840	Thank you. I'm using the time of authorized representatives of the DS parliamentary group. Now it's taking the present and that's exactly why I insist on having a dialogue on which decision is easier, which decision is harder to make. That, as you are not, you are first off from the most difficult possible and it is from public enterprises and from the criteria for who can't be employed in the public sector, I am deeply opposed to bidding with numbers because you have an incredibly capable, honest world of the necessary administration, the necessary state administration and if you give in and, as in the case of wages and pensions you talk about – yaj, it's terribly difficult, it's not true. It's the easiest thing to do, so you start talking about just having to fire from the public sector, in the same way you're going to jeopardize what this government is doing, which is European integration, the willingness to negotiate and the will to really do what's right next year and two years in advance, what's time to do, and that's a whole new approach to public finance control. It's your choice, absolutely. Either we can deal with political folklore or we can really have a dialogue on the important things Serbia needs to endure in the years to come. To talk about bankruptcy, to speak strategically very clearly and legitimately only that someone else is to blame, and thus to think that we have solved a problem that is obvious at the level of personal standards, and to ask that all this is done with joy is not good for anyone. My support for my amendments to colleagues Veselinovic and colleagues, Pavicevic, serves only to at least try to check out what I'm saying, so hopefully, in the months that come, we still meet in what good dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17841	The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17842	Don't do this government with joy. He's working with another feeling, and it's a sense of responsibility because we've waited a long, long time for someone to do it. Who prevented the directors of the previous government's public enterprises from reducing this bureaucratic apparatus, from being unnecessarily disposed of by those who were essential to try to make reforms? Nobody. No one was stopping them. They just didn't want to do it. And today we have a bunch of local self-government, we have public enterprises around the province, they're not much better than this republic, but let's say they're exactly the same, I totally agree with you. For the first time, we have the government's will to change things, clearly expressed will, and, I say, we're not doing this with joy. Alexander Vukic told you, aware of the fact that we're going to lose a political rating on this one, but this just had to be done. Finally, the time has come for us to do these things. It is simply why we came before parliament to seek support for difficult measures that do not cheer us, but which we are responsible for, expecting these measures to do good for the RS and its citizens in the future. I think it's an important message and this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17843	I thank Dr. Stefanovic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: As an authorised representative. You can't, Mr. Pavicevich. Unfortunately, you can't. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. You might want to be Mr. Zivkovic, but unfortunately you're not. Does he want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17844	Thank you, Chairman. We, above all, have put money for the acquisition of software licenses within the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Authority as something that costs too much, especially in times of crisis and when Mr Vujovic says we must save. It's millions and millions. First of all, we have defined these funds as a budget fund for emergency situations, for the simple reason that we have been taught the experience of what happened in the May floods and so that in the coming period, God forbid if something like that happens again, we have a budget that would sort out that thing to a certain extent. What is very important to us to point out is that in an irrational way certain funds are being spent. He said a lot of things about that, and the Fiscal Council. We had the opportunity to hear today that Serbia's prime minister thanked the Fiscal Council for a positive budget assessment, which he criticised in every item of his report. Only some of them are that the cause of the recession in Serbia, after the third year of government, is fundamental. It's a bad business environment. It is the fall of domestic demand due, on the one hand, to a large loss of jobs, that more than 40,000 people are out of work, and on the other hand because of wage cuts and unconstitutional pension cuts. Then, public companies representing losers, over 67 billion are defined for enterprises that are practically unsaved, by "Serbiagas", JAT, "Galeniks" and many others who represent...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17845	Time, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17846	Time's not up yet. ... which represent companies that employ party personnel of the Serbian Progressive Party in a huge number.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17847	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17848	Let me just say that we have a constant orientation problem. So, do you want to lift the subsidies or do you want us to stop the subsidies? Do you feel that a sufficient number of people are not being fired, or do you feel that a smaller number of people should be fired? We constantly have this relationship that criticises both, left and right, and boasts the Fiscal Council when asking us for a greater number of layoffs, and then the government is criticised for not performing a sufficient number of layoffs. We're criticizing ourselves here for making it possible for the social program. So wait, 14 years of restructure companies exist and no one has even tried to solve this problem. Here, we solve that problem. I wish someone had solved it before us, Serbia would have been a healthier and better country. So it wouldn't be bad to define ourselves precisely whether we're for the concept of abolishing everything, shutting it down, or whether we're for the concept of preserving everything that's existed so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17849	Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17850	I want to relate to everything that my colleague Vulin said. The essential question is, how did these companies come into a position that today without subsidies and donations they couldn't pay even their salaries? How did they come by that? How did this happen that the Railroad today cannot pay the wages for its employees? What government did that? What governments are responsible for that? This one now, in the last eight months, or the one last in two years? You know that's not true. Unfortunately, in the previous period, from 2000 to 2014, i.e. since 2012, you have had a serious opportunity to reform the public sector in a serious way, especially in public enterprises. That opportunity was then drastically missed. It kind of reduces the strength of the arguments today when you're asking for it to be done. You could, and you just didn't. That's the problem. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia now seriously wants to reform the public sector and we are trying to protect jobs. What's good is that we've had eight months in a row, and I'm glad people started to notice, reducing unemployment in Serbia. It was 25.6% in April 2012, and today it's at 17.5%, after only two years and some work. It's a serious result of this government. We want to do the same with the public sector. We want to help these companies find strategic partners, to keep these people getting paid, because our goal is to keep people at work, to get people employed. For the past eight months, it's undeniable, and it proves it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17851	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica! You have no right to a replica, Mr. Bozovic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Why? You're not mentioned. Only Mrs. Comic can do it. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Mr Stefanovic said – you did not, I suppose he meant me. No, believe it isn't. Mrs. Comic has a word as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17852	Representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The restructuring companies have been in place since December 2007. If he is 14 years old from 2007 to 2014, then that is the assurance that Minister Vulin is providing us with the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17853	Mr. Alexander Vulin has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17854	The companies have been systematically and planned to be destroyed since 2000. That's what I meant, if it makes you feel any better. The fact that you called them restructured companies, miracles, for political reasons, to collect another vote, as you raised wages and pensions, is already talking about you, and that's why you lost the election. Because the time has come for the bills to be paid, and for nothing else. So, don't do that at all. It's like when you say we cut subsidies, and from 2005 to 2013, subsidies were 100 euros a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17855	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica! ) Mr Bozovic, you really don't have a chance to replicate, you have an authorised representative, there's time. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17856	Thank you. So, in addition, I doubted if Minister Vulin when he shared the information knew what he was talking about, hoping he knew. However, he now puts beyond any doubt any data he shares with us, as restructuring companies have existed since December 2007. Any subsequent attempt to make a folklore or comment on any other process is an inconclusive and unworthy minister who sits here, so that he gives information to the public and to the MPs that are trustworthy, valid and that we can use later. If the minister has taken it, I understand it, it is, but it is not in line with the obligations of a member of the government to address the MPs. There are rules available on corporate restructuring decisions, rules on extension are available, unfortunately, there I agree with Minister Sertic, and only with Minister Vujovic, deadlines for the first restructuring companies, has a list and unfortunately there are more than 95 000 people in these enterprises in restructuring. The joy with which the minister shares the information without any basis is neither good for the minister nor for the National Assembly, but for each one. Man's style. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17857	Thank you. The word has Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, minister of government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17858	Not getting into the Semantics, not entering as something is said, remains facts that speak irrefutablely of one thing, which is that we once had a railroad that was good, not perhaps the brightest in Eurupa, and today we have a railroad that has come so far in the last year or two barely, not barely, but survives without state subsidies. The only question is: How did we, whose great wisdom, whose great merit we came to? Whether to call some company a restructuring company, whether or not it will, but the bottom line is that someone ruined it. Someone destroyed it. Someone brought him to the point where he couldn't just survive. That's why people stayed on the street, which is why we're pulling heavy weight today, which is why no one had the courage to do it before. That's the essence of this budget. It's a light motive that goes through all of this. It's too easy to say, write the amendment and say – give more money. It's very easy to say. They're gone. They're not because some people in the past have been irresponsible, not just to the budget, not just to public enterprises, but to everything they've touched. That's the problem in Serbia. Today we need to gather all the strength we can because no government thinks it's God's day, where it'll last forever. We need to gather all the strength we can to start this country to make the necessary savings, to try to find strategic partners, but to put the economy on a healthy basis. As the Prime Minister said, as my colleague Minister Vulin said, what we earn can be spent, which we haven't earned, I'm sorry, we can't spend.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17859	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17860	You know, the restructuring company became enterprises in restructuring and because they were thoroughly destroyed and destroyed by those who then ruled this country. It's no different. And of course because they didn't even have the guts to start solving the company's restructuring problem and then it comes at us today. But here's a great proposal. We have representatives of various opposition parties in power in one important part of our country. There are opportunities for them to immediately implement the difficult decisions in all public enterprises in the AP Vojvodina area, not these easy decisions that we have implemented, but the difficult decisions to implement. I don't know what's stopping them, something's been stopping them for decades, and here's a chance to do it now to show how they know it. They still have a chance to show how remarkable they are in power and to solve the problem of over-crowded employees in public enterprises, to solve the problem of excessive costs, ineffectiveness, everything else. There's an opportunity to show how much better they are than we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17861	I thank Mr. Vulin for using only a minute of replica. Here you go, Mrs. Comic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17862	Thank you. You have injured Article 108 and Article 27, which speaks about how many participants are available to speak. Two minutes he used one minister, you gave the minister the word to use more time. I don't mind...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17863	Mrs. Komic, if you've heard, I've given the right to a replica of Mr. Vulin and it's only been used for a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17864	First on the replica, it was emphasized that it was given the right to a replica, and this was the giving of words. I'll check the stenogram. I don't mind you giving every minister two minutes and creatively...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17865	If you've heard, I've even thanked Minister Vulina for using only the replica of a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17866	Please, Chairman, allow me to use my two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17867	I'm just giving you the information you may not have had.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17868	I'm sitting in the congregation and I'm sitting here, and I'm sitting here when I've been giving you the best possible suggestions on the amendment, the amendment corrections. I also sat here when I most kindly asked you to leave out the funny mention of other MPs and now I'm sitting here listening carefully, you gave the word to one minister, and then to another minister without any notice to the MPs that one of those two ministers was using the right to reply. As every participant in the session is obliged to explain to you why he is entitled to a replica, ministers and MPs have equal rights and equal obligations in the session of the National Assembly. As for me, or to vote on this and give each of you two minutes, if I can choose Minister Vujovic and Minister Sertic, because it gives better messages to those who are watching us, but it is your right to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17869	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. We move on to Article 1. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Zeljko Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17870	I don't know how the rules go, but I just wanted to give information, given that a few times before, there was a question about public enterprises. Two days ago, I was talking about the government's seriousness to solve problems first of all in the public sector. My part of the job is related to public enterprises and I would like to inform Parliament and all MPs about the latest data we have received today. So, compared to 2014 which ends in a week, we have a lot of precise data on spending. The plan we made with public enterprises in 2015, therefore, is a plan that will have to be respected in relation to the implementation of 2015, savings are 35 billion dinars. I'll give you one piece of information that's very interesting for the media. In sponsorships, donations, official travels, unnecessary educations, contracts that are unnecessary and are not in line with the implementation of the programme, there are 400 million dinars. So public enterprises will have to respect it, it's our next mission to track them from month to month. These are serious numbers. So almost 300m euros have been saved, i.e. a reduction in losses. Unfortunately, in 2013, we had 51 billion losses, we'll see what the figures show for this year, but our plan is that maybe optimisticly in two years, but in three years, we certainly bring public enterprises into some zero, those that are not on the market and who can't, and those that can grow, definitely come out, but that the total sum is above zero. So to reduce the losses we currently have, the terrible ones, that have a terrible impact on our balance sheet. So here's this information I think is important to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17871	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17872	Ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft budget law, and there's two things I have to say. I have to notice that I really don't understand why this amendment hasn't been adopted and here I am trying to explain to the Ministers, here, above all, Vujovic and Sertic. Note, paragraph 2 reads this - planned loans are higher than the funding needed to finance the deficits, pay off the debt and purchase of a three-billion-dollar financial asset still writes how many dinars. Then be careful there are stuck, Mr Vujovicu and says – which represents a positive change in the state of the account. We considered the following. This all that goes after the comma, which represents the kind of change in the state of the account is a surplus in this attitude. It seems to me like when, for example, a student or a student writes essays, writes a sentence, and instead of putting a dot on it and adds -- which means I wrote this part of the essay right. So I think it's some kind of encouragement to whoever writes this, because I think this text should be informative and analytical, but what it represents, I think it's a surplus here, gentlemen. I just have to add here as far as subsidies are concerned. We don't think you, Mr. Vujovic, are erasing all subsidies. Our proposal is that for the Railways instead of the planned 11 billion and 700 go 7 billion and 700. This means that subsidies need to be reduced further. This is not realistic enough about 20 or almost 20% of what has been done, but these subsidies for both the business and the railway must be further reduced. I don't really understand why this amendment has not been accepted to Article 2 which we have submitted on behalf of the New Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17873	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17874	I really don't want to get into the details of these explanations because they're not popular among citizens and understandable, but this if you take more money than it is a deficit, a debt payment, it just means that you're going to increase liquidity levels, nothing else. So, only by these three billion you're going to increase the liquidity level. If you need any payment, because liquidity levels are not costs, it's just an immediate increase, nothing else. It's a balance on the account, nothing else. That's the language, that's the standard language. If there's an explanation, it explains it. We can explain further whether the level of such liquidity is needed or not, that's something else. Let me just say it again when I've taken the word, please, let's hear the suggestions first, let's hear the suggestions whether we agree on a diagnosis, and then the suggestions on what medications we're proposing. So I'm not a politician, I repeat, even though I'm in a political debate here, but I'm less interested in who's guilty, and I'm more interested in seeing the ways out of this situation. So that's something we can agree on. That's a lot easier to agree on. We suggest a combination of four pillars, four types of measures: cost reduction, very painful. Ask yourself why someone here would be motivated to do something very painful, very unpopular. People accept it exclusively because it is the first step that goes into fact without delay. Public enterprises, I agree with you, are a bigger and bigger problem, but it requires at least a year only to reorganise corporate enterprises, that they only show better performance in their work plans next year and then a year later, over dividends, add to the budget. So we can expect the effects at the end of 2016 and 2017. That's almost two years from now. That's the cycle. That's how it works. According to our company law, they show profits in one year, and then they pay in November of the month. We're getting results from 2013 this November. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17875	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17876	Thank you, Chairman. I have to admit, I don't know what we're attacking ourselves for here anymore. If it is proposed to further reduce the railway subsidy. I don't mind. All right. But then it inevitably leads to the layoffs of the railroad workers, and you here are always criticizing what this budget is going to make some part of the people fired. Make a deal with what you're up to. Are you willing to fire some part of the people, are you willing to cut down, are you perhaps willing to lift the railroad? Well, it's not our fault that the railroad is in this situation today, but you've been hiring every possible party personnel in that railroad. A party whose list you're on, sir. Make a deal for what you're attacking the government for. I understand what you want. You want, when you're eligible for fiscal advice, then you call for fiscal advice, when it's unfavourable, you won't. Your goal is, in fact, to create an anarchy of an attack, that you are not interested in the answer at all. Your goal is to create total dissatisfaction in the people, caused by some really pointless once-in-a-lifetime attacks. Here's what you've now commented on and submitted the amendment to your duties. Tell the citizens of the duties they are now taking are 500 times more favourable than yours. During your period, you took interest loans of 9% and we today and if we take a loan somewhere, we take one or two percent with a grace period for 20 years. So, sometimes we get donated money. Let's tell the citizens really the way it is. Here, make your point. Are you willing to let the workers go, aren't you, what you're for and what you're for here to attack us for? It would be good if you finally made your own arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17877	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17878	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to support this amendment by my esteemed fellow lively lecturer at the Faculty of Political Sciences, so lively as to dance on the table, but to remember that in 2007. So I would accept the suspension of subsidies, but as they did not remember in 2007 to lift subsidies to the former prime minister and candidate for prime minister from the list on which the proposal was elected. Let me remind you that what he called us is "stock" and when someone says cattle thinks about plural, it's not just about the chairman, it's about all of us who were on this side of the hall. How could he not remember, when this prime minister is an ex-prime minister candidate for prime minister in the last election from their party list, how could he not remember to be against subsidies when he withdrew 60 million dinars? For these 60 million dinars, we can now pay subsidies for 3,000 cows, which each year will give us in milk and meat of 60 million dinars, and of those subsidies received by the former prime minister and candidate for prime minister in their last elections, of these subsidies, except that he has an apartment in Vratar, no other peasant has anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17879	Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17880	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, let me give you an explanation. That's why these people are pushing for an increase in subsidies in agriculture, not because of agricultural producers, but because of those particular personalities that need to receive additional subsidies, but I think that was the essence of the various amendments that we've seen here, and the fact that you're absolutely right that this happened throughout 2007, and I hope that my reporting did not give me the right to reply, but in any case, I hope that I've given you enough explanations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17881	Thank you. You think you have a basis for replication? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17882	I won't be long, I'll thank the Minister of the Interior for explaining to me the difference between peasants and peasants from the city. These are the first professional peasants, and these peasants are trying, so I ask the minister to take care of it, his service in co-operation with the prosecution, to clearly define those who were peasants and those who were farmers from the city in an attempt at temporary work, until they took subsidies and bought apartments in Vrakar of hundreds of thousands of euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17883	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17884	I thank the chairman. We in the SPS parliamentary group, first of all, support the position that Mr Vujovic expressed just 30 seconds ago, which is how to identify the problem and after identifying the problem find an adequate solution to overcome this problem and at the same time enable what is budgeted and predicted, which is in any case a better life since 2016. What is very important to point out, but when it comes to the amendment and, in particular, the budget projection, is the fact that, in addition to what is extremely transparent, both in terms of income and expenditure, of course, the budget we are considering is also the fact that we must and how we take into account what investment investment investment investments mean at the same time and the possibility of affirming everything that is the ultimate objective of the budget. In particular, the issue of investment affirmation is raised where the state appears as an investor. I would ask, Mr. Vujovic, for sheer reminders and for the sake of the public to point out the facts that are unquestionable, which no one here can doubt, where this state appeared as an investor and where the budget, in some way, is consolidated on that basis. Starting with the situation from the city where I come from, which is Uzice. That's where the state reacted at the moment, as one representative from the opposition party here said it was necessary to form a specific budget, I don't think. The state reacted in an extremely adequate way when it was the most difficult, when the town of Uzice hit something that could be difficult for any environment, and that's the problem with water supply. The state responded by taking responsibility for the training of the water supply system and thus by allowing the citizens of Užica to use the water system today, i.e. to have water. For that very reason, I think that too much political story would be if in the budgetary structure or projection we had to relate to such events. Furthermore, the state is when it comes to the investor of future water factories. I ask you, Mr Vujovic, since I couldn't find this in the draft budget, of course I can't find it, to check through your colleagues in the resolution ministries whether what is very important in the budget structure is also part of the money that is related to the investment in the construction of the water factory, which would completely regulate the water supply system, one existential and burning problem of the town of Užica. The next investment part where the state appears and formally legitimately legitimately legitimate as an investor, so I ask you to find it in budget projections, is the establishment of the University of Uzic, and that's the part that applies to student and student standards. Mr Vujovicu, something that involves a political issue, needs to be separated from economic and very vital facts and one of the most vital is that the city that was once a university city becomes that again. I am sorry that tonight is not Minister Verbic with us, to answer this question competently, given that the budget of the City of Užica has been designed, in some ways, as it had to be done and the reflection on that projection is precisely the budgetary structure of the budget we are talking about and which we are considering. If the City of Užice could provide and project 15 million dinars in the budget for the establishment of the University, why is it that the state in any way does not affirm the realization of this concept to the end? Why does the state not stand behind one concept that is very significant, significant for all of Western Serbia, also significant for those who are gravitating to western Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and significant for human fluctuations and traffic of goods and services? All this is returning to the budget and all of this in some way contributes to the consolidation of the financial situation of the Republic of Serbia. Why did I bring this up? Because the citizens of Užica expect us, the MPs from Užica and me and my colleagues from SNS and DS, to answer these questions, but to respond competently and adequately because these positions in the budget that we have today also play a role in these two investments. Of course, I've highlighted two of the most important investments in Uzic, there are more of them, but I'd like you and your colleagues to tell me, whether in any of the appraisals listed here, any of the sections, there is what the Uzicans, Požezani, Pre-poljani, citizens of the Zlatibor, Moravia district, all those who are gravitating towards western Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17885	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, you want a replica of Mr. Jovanovic's exposure? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is my turn to be entitled to a replica. It's about the amendment I made. Here other MPs, ministers have the right to multiple replicas, and I have no right to reply, and I need to explain my...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17887	But don't waste your time, you're entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17888	You gave me a chance, you gave me a chance. Just to clarify, gentlemen, here is Dr Stefanovic, who seems to know about subsidies very much, but also to Mr Vujovic, above all. Watch our idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17889	Mr. Pavicevic, you have received a replica of Mr. Jovanovic's exposure, and you are talking to me about Mr. Jovanovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17890	Let me explain. Here's Mr. Jovanovic, then now Ned, to try to further explain my amendment. So, dear Mr. Jovanovic, that is, Mr. Becic, to convey to Mr. Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17891	Mr. Pavicevic, you must speak to me about Mr. Jovanovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17892	Here, Mr. Becic, I'm talking to you, but let me take a look at Mr. Jovanovic, so he knows I'm replicating him. Look, it's not enough, we believe that subsidies are reduced by a realistically almost 20%, Mr. Becic. We think that economic subsidies, for the next year, should be 10 billion less, because then what do we show? We thus show that we want to engage in solving the problem we face. We can't talk about this problem all the time from year to year – and who made this problem, and how many years ago, and who's to blame for it? Well, look, this is where the government should exist, and politics serves, gentlemen, to solve problems. Subsidies should be less, and that 10 billion, we think they should move towards agriculture, if it is already necessary to have subsidies, because it can be justified, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17893	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Zeljko Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17894	It would be great if we had our economy today, in 2014, at such a level that we didn't have to attract foreign investors and thus give incentives, that we had public enterprises that are in plus and that we had all our municipalities and all our other budget users at the highest possible level, that they could build and create all those needs that really exist. Unfortunately, that's not the case, and unfortunately, we'll still have to deal with the budgets in determining the level of subsidies. It is very important for us that they be less and less every year, that that part of the economy that has been receiving subsidies so far, that we complete the privatisation process and ensure that the privatisation process is provided through this process that even in that part of the subsidies that existed are significantly less. On the other hand, there are companies everywhere in Europe and the world, such as railways that receive subsidies from the state. You can't shut down some firms overnight, leave people on the street. It's not a social story, but if there is, above all, a passenger traffic in Railways, which is subsidized, but not in a way to buy expensive cars, to build hotels or something else. We know exactly where the subsidy is going, and what development projects are and what it is and how the money that the state gives to any particular company is to some group that is thus defined in the budget. So it's a process that takes place, but what's important is that this budget for the first time defines the framework and for the first time we have a serious reduction in both subsidies and state giving, we talk primarily about the economy, but in this economy today we don't have the opportunity to break overnight and make savings maybe even bigger than we need to, in order to switch to other budgetary positions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17895	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17896	Dear Chairman, this reminds me of the next situation. Let's just say the killer saved a man and he still stays, gives life signs, the doctor tries to save his life, and then the doctor is guilty if he doesn't let God die, not the killer. It's about like this when they tell us – let's not talk about what happened before, but solve the problem now. This budget was designed to solve the problem. If we're talking, because someone claims to be transferring subsidies to agriculture now, so I just think the way of subsidising agriculture so far has been disastrous, it's only happened to the tycoons and it's a good thing that the Serbian government finally did something very important, which is that those who rent state land don't now give subsidies because it was a pure tycoon measure and the tycoons lived out of it and so they destroyed little peasants. These subsidies that are given in agriculture, these are not reduced, these are essential real subsidies for the small farmer to receive the subsidy are extraordinary, and what they did and developed the tycoons and completely ruined our agriculture, and that was just something that was wrong. We had a catastrophic concept of subsidies in agriculture where the dinar didn't come to a small farmer and therefore, of course, it's worth telling people, and this is about "the railroad," so you know, if you're looking at economic logic, that "the railroad" should be closed long ago, it doesn't bring any profit, and that's not possible, it's not normal because the railway needs an army, it needs a defence system, it needs much more. Nowhere in the world at the end of the rails as far as passenger traffic is concerned brings rentability. If your solution is to close the railroad, then it's a great honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17897	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The People's MPs Gordana Komic and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17898	Thank you. The amendment refers to the 5th and 6th position of Article 2 which, not for the first time in the budget of the draft text, is – if at the end of 2015 there is a loan from the consolidated vault account, depending on the conditions on the financial market, it can be transferred in the following year. What I propose together with colleague Vesna Martinovic is the funds of loans from a consolidated account, the vault, can be transferred at the end of 2015 in accordance with the conditions on the financial market. It's a similar thing with the 6th position on the privatisation funds. So, in the text proposal, it says – if the benefits from privatisation are secured during the year, they will be reduced proportionally. What I propose is – the funds based on privatisation will be used to proportionally reduce the credit sources and emissions of state charters from values on the domestic and international financial markets under Article 1(1) of this article. I am very inclined to very seriously support the ideas that I heard only from Minister Vujovic and Minister Sertic, who, I pray that the chairman respects this, is a colloquial term, but for the shortest time, for this cut by budget when it takes all sorts of impossible things to do more to clear the budget that now looks great as it looked four, eight years ago and not to talk about 2001. In that sense, these are my language amendments. I would kindly ask you to take a look at the amendment to Article 1 and to look at the amendment to Articles 5 and 6 because we also need a change in language when we talk about finance. The more focused short sentences, clear instructions, and it'll be easier for us together to explain to people how big the changes are in front of us. Very few people know, regardless of your efforts, how dramatic changes are ahead of us in 2016, 2017 and early 2015. Shorten your sentence, make it simpler. Focus on the expression - the funds exist, the funds have been transferred to position; the funds have been transferred from the consolidated vault account. If she could, I would totally leave this out, but I know she can't at this stage. When we arrive at a completely new approach in 2017 in the case of these allocations and positions, it will look different, but, behold, this is my request to show that neither you nor I care about who wrote the amendment and who wrote the budget, but we care about what is in the budget and what is in the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17899	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17900	Thank you, Chairman. The right to tell you, said the minister in due time that this is an unprecedented budget. I haven't really seen how much I've been monitoring the budgets and how much I've been monitoring the norms. Here, fellow lawyers, let me be corrected. Article 2 relating to the amendments of the colleague states: "Indemnity planning is greater than the funding needed to finance the deficit, which is a positive change in the balance sheet". Thus, Article 2 of the budget states: “What represents a positive change in the balance of accounts. ” This is the law. This isn't a reader or a literary essay. How could someone put it, how he got carried away, so from the explanation, which could possibly have been, put it in a positive -- what is a positive change in the account? How can this application of this member of the law be realized? So, how can you realize some maximum that's nothing more than embellishing the text?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17901	Thank you. The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17902	First, regardless of whether or not we have accepted these amendments, we accept the essentials of your suggestions, the careful reading of the text, and I am very grateful for it, and I think we should all work to make the budget with the slightest words and say the most. Therefore, we fully agree here and we will do everything in our power to respect it when writing every future budget or any other economic text of the law, the proposal. Secondly, I think sometimes you get into so-called. professional language uses some terms that are accepted in the profession as clearly defined, and perhaps citizenship and formally-legal are not the best terms. Here this formulation should only mean an increase in the state. The balance on the account is, of course, the dinar amount of some condition, and the positive change in the state means if there was a dinar increase in the account. So the balance on the account is some situation at some point, some amount of dinar. So that's all it was supposed to mean. Thanks for the heads-up. I think it's a good warning. Thank you. It's not a valuable attitude, it's just the direction of change.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17903	On what basis are you answering, Mr. Pavicevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17904	Please give me one minute, I don't want two.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17905	Here, here, I turned on the microphone to understand. Explain to me why you think you have the right to replicate because it's not your amendment, you're not the bearer of the amendment, no one mentioned you. On what basis are you looking for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17906	I now understand that Mr Vujovic said that this part of the sentence after the comma, which reads: "which represents a positive change in the balance" does not necessarily have to be part of this attitude and that it is acceptable to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17907	Mr. Pavicevic, don't do it like this. In some sentence, you've identified yourself, which has nothing to do with you, but maybe what you've read is what you've identified yourself?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17908	It's a careful reading of the bill, Mr. Becic. Every sentence is important.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17909	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Branka Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17910	Thank you, Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 3(3), which brings up the public debt situation, so we suggest that it be said: “31. October 2014 is replaced by the words "30. November 2014’. We believe that Article 3 needs to amend as we propose, since the proposer submitted the draft budget bill for the Republic of Serbia for 2015. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the 2015 draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia was prepared in November 2014, so that the public debt deficit was cut on 31 October 2014. Making public debt data available on 31 October 2014 would be fine if the draft budget had been submitted in accordance with the budget calendar on 1 November 2014. A particular problem is that the same session also discusses budget rebalances for the current year, which Minister Vujovic said was showing the situation on December 19th 2014. So, we have a 2015 budget proposal with a public debt status on 31 October 2014, and the rebalance for 2014 shows the state of play on 19 December 2014, in which the amount in the 2015 budget was then shown the commitments for which we learned in the meantime that they were reduced. Budget arrived before budget rebalancing. This is just one of the ambiguities and contradictions in this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17911	Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17912	I'm glad the People's Parliament is very closely following this debate. That is the essence of this debate in the National Budget Assembly. However, since we've touched a little rebalancing, let me get back to it. You mentioned him in your presentation, so I think it's okay to go back to the matter of rebalancing. I hope that we will have more governments and that every year we will have more of these events, such as budget rebalancing, which is actually paying back money to the Republic of Serbia, in which we are saving, in which we have managed to spend less of that money back to the Republic of Serbia with the additional efforts of all ministries. That was the essence of budget rebalancing. We didn't spend any money. We fought for savings, we fought for the money to remain for the citizens of Serbia, to return that money, to try to repay the debts of the Republic of Serbia, and it seems to me that we have all done a good job for the people who live in this country. Of course, there have been long talks with the IMF and a lot has been said in the principle debate, but let's remind the IMF as one of, you'll agree, the most conservative financial institutions, when the IMF said this is a good budget, that this is something we can achieve, and the Fiscal Council has said a lot about this budget, it shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia is on the right track. I consider this discussion your support for everything well done in this budget, which I thank you for. I am glad that Serbian citizens saw that the government can make a budget in a serious and responsible way, to rebalance Serbia's citizens with something. I hope that even in 2015, we will have at least one rebalance in which we will show that we could save even more by additional measures and try to return more money to the budget, reduce the deficit and have healthier Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17913	Thank you. The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17914	Just a brief explanation, because this when we listen to the interpretation seems rather confusing. So let me get this straight. The debt situation on 31 October 2014 was a condition which was an integral part of the instruction and an integral part of the budget, which was contained at a very detailed level from 8 to 41 of the proposed budget. This second state of debt that we're talking about, that's one digit that's used as a frame. This particular condition of debt is not done every day. The 30th October is the last month available before issuing instructions and entering the budget preparation process. We couldn't go back and look for a state of debt on November 30th, because then we would have to permanently do everything over and over again. The differences are not great, but the methodological instruction is such that we take the last month before the final stage of budget preparation and instructions begins. So there's no dilemma at all. The differences are minimal and are done, there will now be a debt situation in the fiscal strategy, which you will get in a few days and there will be a situation different from this again. So this is what we're going to do as an approximation to get us into budget preparation. There's no other explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17915	Thank you, Mr. Vujovic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I don't think there's enough ground for a replica, but I'm still going to give you a replica, but I'd like to ask you not to use it for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17916	Just to explain to Minister Stefanovic, after he responded to my presentation. We don't support a budget like this, which is why we've made so many amendments. We think some things should be different. We support, of course, everything that's good for the citizens of Serbia, you've made your own right, I've responded to that, then I've applied, you haven't saved. You haven't been able to spend it all, and now you're rerouting those funds. To be clear, there's no saving. What Minister Vujovic and I explained is clear in essence, but the problem is that the budget was delayed, so it did not arrive on November 1st when it was due, but arrived at the end of December.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17917	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17918	Thank you anyway for that part of support, where you support what's well done. I'm absolutely sure you support that we saved 65 billion dinars of rebalancing. That's a great thing, and thank you for your support. I am convinced that Serbia's citizens will also be able to appreciate it, but I think that 65 billion shows how much responsibility the government has shown in 2014, that the additional austerity measures have managed 65 billion dinars to focus where they are most needed and that we have preserved the level of social giving, that we have increased employment in Serbia, that we are opening new jobs. I think that's all he's saying in favor of this government doing well. Do we think everything is ideal? We don't think so. We think there's a lot more to be done, that course and we move on. That's why the 2015 budget is like that. It is that he did not arrive in parliament the day he was due to arrive, but it is because of the difficult and serious talks with the IMF, with serious world institutions. We wanted all our foreign partners, our creditors, all those who helped Serbia have a healthier economy, to see how much effort the government is making to make this budget really sustainable, not to be a colorful lie, but to be something that will be realized in 2015. As far as I can tell you on behalf of the Ministry I run, we will also try to save additional measures in all positions without reducing the security of the Republic of Serbia, that it will not go to the expense of members of the ministry, and that we can reduce spending and return it to the budget. I hope we get a chance to see it in the rebalancing for 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17919	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17920	By amendment. I would only support the People's MP Hasanovic Korac for the simple reason he's right. Mr. Vujovicu, I'd like you to answer this, not Mr. Stefanovic, who doesn't know exactly about this area. It is the Fiscal Council that made its comments on the budget and even comments on the rebalancing of the rebalancing for 2014. Public investments are inadmissiblely low and constitute a major restriction on economic development. Furthermore, from year to year, there is a budget increase in capital expenditures, and the execution is undermining even 10.20 billion, just as Mrs Hasanovic Korac claimed. So you didn't spend money on investment and projects because you weren't able to make it through. Now that money you claim to have saved, which isn't true, but the government doesn't have the capacity to define the funds, those funds and spend. That's the whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17921	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic, a replica because it is a direct question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17922	I repeat again. First, the elemental thing, saving is when you increase the difference between income and expenditure, but also when you reduce the deficit. Reduce the deficit means save. If you're planning a deficit from... Sir, please don't gesture, you're distracting me. It's really not right, I'm not doing this to you. Don't make gestures that demean a man who speaks. I don't gesture to you as you speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17923	Please, Minister, use your time to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17924	I use time, among other things, to send messages that are important. I thank you for every good and constructive proposal. I said once, we had a 225 billion deficit projection. We made the revenues in the billion that we planned, despite the fact that real economic movements were worse than projected, and therefore the tax base and all incomes were worse. Therefore, in revenue compared to the tax base, we have transferred the plan to all important elements, such as VAT and the rest, we have transferred the plan. Secondly, on the side of the expenditure, the reductions I said in detail, I'm not going to repeat them, a total of 48 billion on the side of current expenditures and 15 billion on the side of capital expenditures. How much is the government's capacity? How many different companies, various agencies and other bodies in this country provide rules and implement public procurement rules, the realisation of investment projects and the rest is a special topic, but this has been achieved on the basis of what happened the last two and a half months, i.e. by December 19th. Therefore, we felt that there was no point in keeping funds in accounts that would not be achieved by the end of the year. That's why we suggested a rebalancing, that those funds be used to pay off those old dues, which is the only thing that can be done in the last seven days, otherwise those debts would be waiting for us next year. If we hadn't done that, the money would have been extinguished in those accounts on December 31st. The result of these transactions, the deficit situation, 161 billion on 19 December, with the remaining expenditures of 7 billion and the proposed budget rebalance, we're going to go out somewhere to 175 to 180 billion, which will all be 45 billion less than the deficit. Therefore, less need to borrow and lower debt growth...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17925	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17926	... which means all the savings...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17927	Minister, thank you, you've wasted your time. We have to take care of it. We have a lot of amendments. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. You have no right. You've agreed, and we haven't had the replicas yet. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, because you mentioned him in the first sentence of the name and the last name and the pejorative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17928	What is important for Serbian citizens to know, which is that in the first 15 days of December we have significantly increased VAT collection. So in December of the first 15 days of 2013, we had 19 billion VAT charged, in the first 15 days of December 2014, 22 billion, so three billion to that amount is a serious figure. When we're done a year, so we'll see if it's at that rate, I hope that at that rate the charge will go, we can say that we've significantly increased the VAT charge, we haven't reduced the aggregate demand and we've shown that this government knows what it's doing. At the same time, what I can tell you from the domain of the work I'm doing, and today we have almost a ton of tobacco, a smuggled tobacco that's been seized. We already have almost 20 tons in this month alone. We have a serious increase in excise charges, among other things, and thanks to the work done by the Ministry of the Interior. I think that's how it's done very seriously to increase income. That's why we saved up the rebalancing, because we showed that we were able to increase revenues, to cut expenditure despite what Minister Vujovic said, about the projects, and this is how we showed how the household is managed. Of course, I'm not as professional as you are, but I will certainly suggest you be a member of the Fiscal Council. I am sure your knowledge will significantly help the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17929	Mr. Bozovic, you have 57 seconds to talk about the amendment. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. Replica? I don't know on what basis. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. Now he mentioned me. Do you want to use your last 57 seconds to talk about the amendment? (No) The word has a People's Messenger, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17930	By amendment, Madam President. So, very briefly. I would like to invite us to wrap up the debate slowly under this amendment, and I am also commenting on both the promoter and the colleagues who support this amendment. An amendment proposing that Article 3(3) of the wording: "31. October is replaced by the following: ‘30. November," of course, cannot be accepted because the text also gives the debt figure on the date it was placed in the original text, although at least for one single dinar it has changed in any way, and of course it has, the adoption of this amendment would result in the fact that we have a factually wrong situation in the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17931	Have you changed your mind, Ambassador Bozovic? You called again. (Balsa Bozovic, from the site: I stayed in the system. ) Get out of the system. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17932	Thank you, Your Honor. I would agree with my colleague Orlic that we cannot accept this amendment. I'm sorry that someone's talking about investment and that they don't want to spend money at all costs of some investment. We have seen in the last 12 years that 50 billion euros have entered this country without almost seeing anything since the investments. If that's how we're going to invest or make investments in our country, then we better save that money until we figure out how to invest it in one responsible way. When we see all these analyses and see what the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance are doing, when we're serious about our financial policy, where we're fighting the gray economy, where we're fighting corruption that's the biggest monster in this country in the last 25 years, aren't those concrete results? Someone who has wasted 50 billion euros says he is professional and demeaning other speakers and ministers and MPs not to know what they're talking about. The results tell us everything. The results to fight the grey economy, that the tax has to be paid in order to invest from our country's resources, because if we establish a system and seriousise the economic system, then we can raise pensions and wages, but on sound grounds, not the basics as it was in the past. It's the easiest thing to do to be in charge and win some elections based on it, and today look at the situation we're in because of such a perilous policy. As you can see, some politicians in Nis still insult the SNS today, although they only have 6% of citizens' support, although they say they will surely remain in power by 2016 and try every possible way to destroy what little is left in the AP Vojvodina. Now, that's hypocritical, and that's rude. Fall back if you do not have support, go to opposition at all levels, implement one or make some new policy with some new people and then come back when you have the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party will not remain in power at any cost unless it has the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our biggest rapper is for what we do, which is responsible policy, as we are assessed by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They trust Alexander Vukic, they trust this government to take Serbia on the right path, and we can only do that if we behave responsibly and seriously, as these people tell the truth, responsible truth, the truth that might even hurt, because it's not great and it's not great, but I'm quite convinced that, first of all, the younger population in our country, those students who have graduated from colleges, high school, ordinary young people who want to stay in this country, will get a chance to work in this country honestly and congratulatingly for a year, two days, to start their families, and not to leave this country, as the brain drain was the largest in the period of 2000 to 2012. This is our goal and we will be committed to this goal, regardless of the flood, without any arguments, is directed towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I want you to know that we're going to keep going that way and that we're going to end up making a result.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17933	Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have been using today to explain that this expenditure side of the budget is contrary to the declared reform policy of the government. Our amendment to Article 4, Mr Vujovic, concerns only the language. Please listen to me carefully now, because I think you should accept this amendment. Here is the dictionary and grammar of Serbian. In this home, we also take care of the language used. In its position 4, it is purely for one precision, as well as stylishly, Mr Vujovicu, says: "In the financial perspective of the EU for the period 2014 to 2020, the Republic of Serbia will participate" and now writes where it will participate, in eight programmes, etc., but, Mr Vujovic, further in the same sentence and in the next sentences, it does not use futur, but uses a presentation, although it refers to futur, and says, "The Republic of Serbia provides", on another "supervision", in yet another place "contains". I believe, dear Mr Vujovic, that if we apply one criterion for using time, one word, let us adhere consistently to that criterion in one position. If we have said in multiple places the presentation "secures", "secures", "contains", then let's continue here in the second row, in the first sentence, in the fourth position to say "participate" instead of "participate". I think it would be this stylish, linguistically good. I think you should accept this amendment. It's no big deal, Mr. Vujovic. The new party has submitted about 800 amendments so far, and only 10 have been adopted, but there is no reason not to make this our 11th Amendment, Mr Vujovicu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17935	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17936	We'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17937	The record says the minister accepts the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Gordana Komic and Vesna Martinovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17938	The amendment, which, after considerable reflection, was submitted as long as time allowed, was still submitted, but it is nevertheless the position 8 on Article 4 which speaks of the obligation of the national IPA coordinator to submit a report to the National Assembly once a year. It is one of the major newspapers in the budget, one of the more serious jobs that is waiting for us in 2015, since IPA two has a completely different structure and the way in which we get funds from European funds compared to what experience we have in the previous six years. I must also praise the fact that Serbia with three or four governments, for those six years, has a 98% exploitation. It doesn't matter what techniques, but we're a country that negotiates, which has a previous IPA use of 98%. It is extremely important that we actually use IPA 2014-2020 in this percentage. In that sense, my amendment, as it was submitted, is that the report be submitted twice a year. The alternative was if necessary. I don't like those words when you can choose the law. I understand why the amendment is being rejected, but I think it is important to hear a public word about how important it is to have as much information as possible about IPA two, how important it is that this is a member of the budget that is European, because it is the EU's request that the national IPA coordinator, in this case, Minister Joksimovic, appear before the Assembly, and that the report and how important it is to prove what people across Europe believe, which is that Serbia is ready for administrative capacity. It won't be easy. This will be the hardest job of withdrawing enough percent of the IPA funds, and that is why it is only my desire to throw as much light at that job as possible and to take care of it as much as possible. In that sense, I have a question as to whether the Ministry of Finance was elected, or appointed to the IPA, since it was in public hearings a few months ago, whether we had a dilemma or not? And it's not the Minister of Finance's job, but my request to the government's meetings is to support an answer to my parliamentary question about the selection of the Director of the Office for European Affairs. It is very important for me to conclude the architecture that Serbia is presenting during the negotiations and to prove that we are worthy of good opinion, which, when it comes to negotiations, exist. If it is once a year, then we will really ask Minister Joksimovic and you to agree on special protocols about the Assembly being the place from which people will be most able to hear about what happens to monitoring the IPA funds, regardless of the stage, whether at the stage to compete or at the stage when it has already reached its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17939	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Balša Bozovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17940	I thank the president. We have submitted this amendment for the reason we want a better redistribution to these spending sides. So millions are spent, for example. for the Kosovo Office. Thirty-four billion dinars at the Kosovo and Metohija Office, I think it's something out of every sense. An unconstitutional Kosovo supplement declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional is still being paid. It remains, Mr Vujovicu, in the 2015 budget over 60 billion for public enterprises. That's what we talked about today. We were talking about 19 billion dinars more for interest payments based on loans this government has taken over the last two and three years. It's seven billion euros in new borrowing. It is one million euros every three hours, Serbia is in debt for one million euros. On the contrary, the Democratic Party proposes to provide three billion for educational workers to stop strikes in primary and secondary schools throughout Serbia; six billion missing, or less for agriculture than it was in 2014; health workers, too; the Youth Fund and, too, to increase public investment. Public investments are slightly higher in the coming year but they are slightly higher due to adaptation to European Union directives and mandatory minimum oil reserves. They're still not enough. One specific question, Mr. Vujovic, for you. Do you have plans for more efficient public investments or organisational changes in the country that would suggest a more efficient execution of capital expenditure, as was not the case in 2014, so we had to bring about budget rebalances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17941	Alexander Vulin signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17942	Just a little clarification, since I used to deal with the Kosovo and Metohija Office. We all need to know that the government of the Republic of Serbia provides compensation for about 40,000 each month in Kosovo and Metohija. Without it, the life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija would simply not be possible. You know very well that at the level of wonder that, say, someone who lives in Orahovac or Big Hotchi finds a job out of its midst. That's completely impossible. Do you think there's an Albanian boutique that takes Serbs from Orahovac to work with him? So as long as such a situation is taking place, the government of the Republic of Serbia has a duty and obligation to care for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and it does so this way. So, most of that budget, I am sure that more than 90% of that budget applies exclusively to salaries, social contributions and to various others, again, direct donations to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. So it really shouldn't be touched.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17943	Minister Dusan Vujovic wanted to respond, and I kept skipping him. I apologize to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17944	If I may respond to the previous proposal. I have no objection to the proposal to do it twice a year, but I don't think I could do it without more detailed consultation, not only with Minister Joksimovic, but also with all the people working on it, because I don't know the availability of data and people doing it twice a year. We'd better work once a year, get you a report in time and discuss it all, rather than commit to unrealistic deadlines where we're going to have a lot of empty fields. I would prefer not to accept this amendment because I do not know what the obligation is. In this second proposal, we have noticed here that in the last paragraph you have reduced, in your proposal, from a billion to a billion, to a billion, the total amount remains the same. We haven't been able to figure out where the second sum changes in that first column. If you can help us, given what Minister Vulin said, about some categories, because this is about that many things are already under way, already agreed, there are obligations, so sometimes it's not easy to change, whether there's a foundation and a good desire to do it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17945	Mr. Bozovic, by amendment? (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: No, Minister to Answer. I can't believe you want to take some time. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Do not let Vulin give you orders. Ambassador Veselinović, don't throw it at me. No one gives me orders, no one gives to the presidents, they have the right to speak to each other, if what you're saying to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17946	Thank you, Chairman. I'm glad someone filed a amendment like this to explain a little to the citizens. That's when someone wants to take from the people with Kim to give the tycoons money. He says he's moving to agriculture. I will now explain again to the citizens of Serbia, it is very important. The subsidies in agriculture are not reduced because someone wants to take away from the farmer. On the contrary, they were reduced so that they would not be given to tycoons, because they no longer grant subsidies to those who will rent the land, which were most often done by those who were and how partyly connected to you, who had so-called. consortiums that have come across our agricultural combinations in various ways. That's a good measure, and that's why a good solution like this is otherwise proposed because a small farmer will finally be able to get that subsidy he needs and make the right use of it. What I notice to Mr Vujovic, I have seen in your explanation in response to this amendment, in the context of the Government, it is so called. the funds defined for software. I understand the need for the state administration to be up-to-date and get new software, but we do have one big problem of totally unenergized software in our state administration, and it's someone deliberately radioed, especially in the IRS, where you currently have four softwares, completely unintegrated with each other. It's what someone was doing on purpose to introduce complete chaos, so that we couldn't have any insight into how much they owed, and that's why the gray economy was really developing. It seems to me, Mr. Vulin, correct me, that you said somewhere that among other things, the PIO Fund doesn't have integrated software with the tax administration and you don't have any proper records of those people who are in the PIO. I'd like you to explain that to us. Here it is also proposed and I think that this is a demagogue or a mistake in the amendment itself, which is that the police increase in 2015 no less than 100 million dinars in order to get the necessary equipment. It's about cars. I'd really like our police to get so many modern vehicles, but 100 million dinars, from whom you'll take it, to give it to the police, because 30 million dinars are scheduled here, and someone's asking for 130 million. Mr. Stefanovic, you're here and you could explain to us who we're going to take it from, as someone asks 100 to equip our police. Anyway, it's not supposed to spill demagogue, it's supposed to be completely realistic, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17947	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17948	Mr. Djukanovic, what you asked is really 30 million in this budget. Of course, we wrote off about 1100 cars from the MUP a few days ago, which were old, spent, cars that were not used, cars by various police administrations that cost more in terms of maintenance than any of their useful values. I don't argue that, of course, the police need better equipment. Finally, the first part of the new uniforms arrived and are now divided by police administrations. We will also use and domestically try to use citizens' money to restore the technique used in the MUP. I agree with you in one more thing. Since that's mentioned, we've been working on budget rebalances recently to save 65 billion. So, increasing VAT collection, increasing the fight against the gray economy, we were saving money, domestically treating it. We've reduced all items to the MUP, even though I don't think, of course, that security is expensive and we always have to take care of it. You are also a member of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, and you know what is done and what are all the challenges facing the Republic of Serbia. I only hope that we will have serious investments, that we will have effective investments, but only that they are not what they were from 2008 to 2012, when some criminals, i.e., excuse me, are nice gentlemen who robbed our businesses and our state, when these investments were, I said I would no longer call these people criminals, nice gentlemen who took our citizens' money. I hope we have a lot more serious and we already have, but every year we're going to have a more serious state that's going to use citizens' money where it's most needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17949	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17950	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. First of all, Minister Vulin, I am sorry to see the opposition's attitude towards our fellow citizens in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. I believe that our people and within the borders of the Republic of Serbia, and even beyond, we must always help when it is difficult for them. There is no better relationship with fellow citizens in Belgrade, as a young colleague mentioned investments and that we must raise funds for young talent. Here, for example, may Mr. Bojan Pajtic six times reduce the cost of his travels and try to reroute it for young talents in the AP Vojvodina. It's not a small amount of money. On the other hand, 140m euros is a deficit in Belgrade, 20.5%. Out of one budget of around 700m euros, you have made a 20.5% deficit. A historical deficit when we talk about the city of Belgrade. Then you're talking about investment. In 2007/2008 Belgrade also had a surplus. Since you're great experts and you've been giving lectures all day and we've arrived at reforms, how did you manage to make a deficit in the city of Belgrade, you're a representative of the city board, 20.5%? How did you manage a parking service as a public company to put it in a position to be non-profitable, i.e. to have a large deficit? "City Cleanliness", which in your day bought the Inexa building to have certain offices, is now several hundred million dinars in plus. It is a responsible policy, a policy voted by citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade, and you are talking about young talents. During the DS, everything worth it from this country has gone. The Serbian Progressive Party will not allow any more of the new young talents that are being educated in our country to leave our country, because we need them precisely because of these investments that you mention, but not the robbery privatisations and the robbery investments where you pushed money into agriculture, and after the tycoon they pulled out, but the real investments that will be for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, which will be for the benefit of our entire country, because it is the only way we can finally become an orderly and modern country, just as we weren't during the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17951	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17952	Thank you, President, for these two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if Mr. Jovicic knows that in the last two years 80,000 people have left Serbia. I suppose because they could find a job in it, some young people because they could create conditions in Serbia for the future, to start their families, or because you've been in power for three years, so Serbia is in recession? This means that in 2015 many people will lose their jobs. This means that in 2015 many young people will be in a situation where they cannot find a job and bind their future to the country. When it comes to Belgrade, as I recall, and we were together in the City Assembly, you had a surplus of four billion dinars, at the end of 2013, four billion surpluses. And it's just like today's surplus, so you're rebalance the rebalance because you failed to spend the money. Not only do you not know how to collect money from the income side, but you don't know how to spend it on expenses. That's what the basic grudges of the Fiscal Council are about when it comes to growth. This is where 5% investment is projected to grow as very ticklish, as very uncertain. So every item in this budget is about to be shot. It's just one little thing to jump out of the system and everything to crash like a map tower. Then we will have a situation that the Serbian government represents a large Titanic where ministers will wear their most beautiful and best suits and, together with the citizens, sink as gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17953	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović I can't, since he called in the Rules of Procedure. [[Alexander Jovičić, from the place: Sorry, replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17954	Dear President, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure precisely because of a speech from an MP asking for a word again. It's about Article 106's injury. There is talk beyond the agenda again, and I have already proposed today, even Minister Stefanovic agreed with me, which is not so often that we agree, that it would be good to invite the Prime Minister of Vojvodina, Mr Pajtic and Mr Sinisha Malo, mayor of Belgrade to the assembly, as there is more talk of the AP and Belgrade budgets than of the Republic of Serbia, and I do not think that this is the topic of the agenda. I have another proposal for you, President. Since Mr. Vulin is here, and since we have another province, and now Mr. Vulin has talked about it, and he has two ministers in the government of Hashim Thaci, or Isa Mustafa, I checked, their budgets are bigger than Vojvodina's regional budget, so I'd like to hear about it too.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17955	What member is that? I can't handle it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17956	A member is not talking about the agenda, but about the budgets of local self-government and the province. I said Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17957	We'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17958	Should we call the prime ministers and one and the other provinces?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17959	No, we're not gonna invite anyone, we're gonna take a break, I agree with you in part, to discuss the agenda, or the draft budget law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17960	I'm glad to finally agree with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17961	I agree, MPs have gone to other themes in the last hour, and spending their parliamentary time groups and almost gone. So, for the sake of MPs who will certainly want to talk a little bit about the budget, we can take a break or agree to continue exclusively on the budget, to check out these MPs because they certainly intend to talk again about the budgets of the capitals of the AP Vojvodina. Please, since we have a table and some amendments, let's cross our arguments over the next members and amendments to those members. I have to run a session to say that the ministers don't want us to adopt that suggestion, so I'm going to give them a replica, but I don't want to keep hurting the Rules of Procedure at the expense of the president and the chairman. Who wants a replica first? The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17962	Thank you. Mr. Vesenovic said we don't get along so often, and I would say he's always worked well with the Ministry of the Interior and I don't think we get along very often. In any case, I think the things that concerned the city of Belgrade, yesterday I set an example for Ada Ciganlia, and today I'm going to give you another example. In the Public utility Cleanness in Belgrade until the change of government, you had 1500 employees who were employed through the contract or the Youth Co-operation, and today you have less than 1000, with the efficiency of the company not being reduced in any way. Of course, it is clear to you that out of those 500 differences, at least two-thirds of them never came to work, they were a party bar that was so home and paid. Now, these are the things we changed. That's why the rebalance is saving, so there are people who want to fight in a responsible way for this country. That's why I think this government is on the right track, and that's why the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are in all elections, wherever they have them, unfortunately in Vojvodina, someone thinks they should be held in a position to hold them regardless of whether they have most of the parliament in Vojvodina, it's okay. Does he have any legitimacy? There isn't. In all the elections citizens have, they clearly identify themselves. Here, we will have a chance soon in two municipalities of Mionica, Luciani, to see what the citizens will say in these municipalities. Do they think that the policy that the state leads is good or not, and as far as SNS is concerned, legitimacy has always been more important and more important than any formal support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17963	Replication time, two minutes. Thank you. Alexander Jovicic, I can by amendment, to continue, I can do that. The word is Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17964	When we talk about the budget, since you don't give me the replica, when we talk about the budget, it's important to stress, and I would disagree with Mr., a colleague who just advertised the Rules of Procedure, if it weren't important to talk about the budgets of local self-government. Yeah, it's important. It's what makes life. The local community, the municipalities, the cities, but only the republic. If we don't take enough care of these budgets and how the funds are allocated, we won't do anything. That's why it's another relationship between SNS and others, to local self-government. As for the city of Belgrade, since we are also adopting the budget that is related to this budget, as you say we are talking about budgets, the city of Belgrade has not used the word surplus for six or seven years. Listening about the fact that the city of Belgrade had any surplus is really scandalous. There's no surplus, there's a 20.5% deficit. That's right. So, a deficit that was made by one irresponsible policy, and we could target those resources to young talents, to develop our economy in local self-government in 17 Belgrade municipalities, we could make some shifts in the economy in Belgrade but we didn't. We've been dealing with a different policy, exactly one party that says – you haven't been able to spend your money? No, but that's why you managed to spend up to the last dinar. It's just a question of what and how. When we spend money, we spend it in a responsible way. That's why we're making savings, savings and fuel, and official cars, unnecessary travels, and then we see that someone has six times the travel budget and we don't mind, but let's see if they're going to make six times as much investment. I'm convinced he won't. Here, not even in Nis has brought any investment, but what the whole world praises is gone is the IMF and the World Bank and the BRD and all relevant institutions dealing with finance, he went to say that it's not okay, alone against everyone. If that's what we're spending on, then we're in trouble. I agree that it can always be better, but I think this budget is a real budget. There's no nice or less nice budget, there's real or unreal. Unlike all the budgets in the previous period, in previous years, this budget is real, which brings stability to our country. The stability we need over the years to invest in real projects, projects not on the principle that someone invests a tycoon, draws money and closes the store. I don't want to do that anymore. This government also passed a set of laws that should be re-mentioned by the Labour Act, the Law on bankruptcy and privatisation, making it easier for each employee to return tax to the employer, these are the specific things that make life. I repeat again, I disagree with the argument that there is no need to deal with local budgets. Life is in the country, life is in every local community, because that makes one state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17965	Thank you. What do you say, MP? It wasn't a replica, he used the time of the parliamentary group, they have the most. You know, I listen to both sides. What about the amendment, I can't quite catch everything, they don't want my suggestion to adopt a strict amendment. Balša Bozovic, for example, stands up and has not received a word. It's hard to be chaired in such an atmosphere. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I didn't understand, I thought it was a replica. I don't understand much either. You're up, MP. Why? Did you ask for a word? You have no right to a replica, the MP has expressed his position on this amendment and on what he is saying. I keep giving you my word that you, too, at a time in which you have your position. Here you go, but you always sit down, and what am I supposed to do now? The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17966	The Honorable Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I find the amendment not acceptable, because it changes the elements of the 2015 budget, the proposed budget, and for the first time we have a budget that envisions an increase of revenue from as many as 27 billion dinars, from 897 to 924 billion dinars, with this increase based on realistic foundations, because in this year, tax revenues increased significantly to e.g. VAT and excise. Also, for the first time, savings from 27 billion dinars are projected and budget deficits are lower than planned rebalancing in October by as many as 70 billion dinars. But we need to see why we have to plan the 2015 deficit in the first place. So, in front of me, I have the budget laws from 2008 to 2012. In 2008, we had a budget deficit of 14 billion and 828 million dinars planned. However, in 2012, the same budget deficit was 115 billion 676 million dinars. So by more than 101 billion dinars, the budget deficit increased by four years. That's why today, because of the government's poor policy from 2008 to 2012, we have to anticipate a budget deficit like this. Also, what's interesting is to look at the expenditures for employees' salaries since 2008, when they were planned to amount to 141 billion dinars, and already in 2012 at 173 billion dinars, which is even more than 32 billion dinars. So much for hiring, party employment in the public sector. We heard from the opposition that tax revenues are not increased. However, it seems to me that someone has not read the budget, because if we look again at the 2008-2012 budgets, tax revenues have increased by 82 billion dinars from 2008 to 2012, and by just two years, i.e. from 2012 to 2014, it has increased by 81 billion dinars. So we increased tax revenues by two years as much as they increased by four years. The 2015 budget is realistically planned, transparent and defined in accordance with the austerity and reform policy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore, for these reasons, I do not think that any amendment to the opposition that changes such a good budget should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17967	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) Members of the 5th Sections 16 and 15 of the amendment were submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17968	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, the idea of this amendment is that the table showing the review of the capital expenditure for budgetary users for this year and the following year should make a redistribution. Given that the construction of the South Stream is uncertain, we predicted that it was split up into the Ministry of Finance, which defines the land's assets for the construction of capital facilities for 2015 in the amount of two billion to be transferred to the Budgetary Emergency Fund. We're all witnesses that we've been hit by catastrophic Mayan floods this year. Then, there was also an untimely beginning of winter in eastern Serbia, and I really think it would be necessary for the Budgetary Emergency Fund to increase its suspicion for the purchase, i.e. for the purchase of property, goods, to save citizens and, of course, all of this as a protection, i.e. to remove the consequences of emergency situations. I think this fund is just ignored year after year, and we only remember it when one of those monsters hits us. So I was a little curious, I looked at 16 and 617 pages, which refer to capital facilities, in which the expropriation will be done, and I saw that it was Corridor 10 and Corridor 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17969	Thank you. Time. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. You want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17970	Thank you. Article 6 speaks of the AP Vojvodina budget. In Article 6(2), the words “all” shall be added after the words “transfers”, “all” and “Government”, after the word “Government”, “in co-operation with the Government of the Government of Vojvodina” shall be deleted. Namely, when Article 6 determines the budget of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. the height that belongs, it is said, in item 2 in indent 1. means ‘transfers for all entrusted transactions in accordance with the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina’. I think it's important that this word "everyone" stands here. And in the fourth indent, after the word "Government", the point is deleted, and words are added: "in co-operation with the government of the AP Vojvodina", which will say that dedicated capital transfers for projects established by the government, of course, in co-operation with the Government of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17971	Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic-Korac. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic - Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17972	Thank you, Madam President. The amendment I have submitted to Article 6 consists of two parts. In the first part, I suggest you delete the indent 3 in point 2. And Article 6 regulates the AP Vojvodina budget, and in line with what I propose to delete indent 3, I propose that Article 6a, which would reads "the budget of the local self-government unit belong to the dedicated and non-purpose transfers to local self-government units in accordance with the law governing the financing of local self-government". I think it is necessary in the same way as it was done with regard to the AP Vojvodina, to do the matter of transfers to local self-government units. A colleague, Marko Djurisic, in his amendment before this, suggested that the indent 3 be deleted, and I added to Article 6a, for the reason that the province's budget is artificially increasing. In fact, the province's budget belonged to the funds intended for the transfer of municipalities. The province's assets must be transferred to municipalities, so it cannot be used for other purposes, and it turns out that the province's budget is just a flow boiler for these funds. That's why Vojvodina municipalities have to get funding like this, why can't they get it directly from the republican budget, as well as all other municipalities in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17973	Thank you. Your time is wasted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17974	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, this amendment solves the purely technical detail in Article 6 because you have provided that Article 2(3) of the Third indent says "the law on the financing of local self-government". We propose to say – "the law governing the financing of local self-government" – because in practice it never states the correct name of the law, because it is possible to change the law, and thus its name, so you place a descriptive provision, to say the law that regulates certain matter or area.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17975	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17976	The Minister accepts the amendment. Thank you. National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17977	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, in this style, I hope that we will move on and that you will accept the next amendment. Please take a close look at this attitude I have submitted to the amendment, which is said to be: "the funds for the salaries of persons employed in education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina of 2nd indent 2nd of this article shall be paid at the height and by the dynamics established by the Government". My amendment was that "the funds for the salaries of persons employed in education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina of the 2nd indent of this article shall be paid at least once a month and in accordance with the labour regulations". I really don't know what the legislator's intention was when he didn't predict the time limit in which the salaries would be paid and when he said at the height and by the dynamics established by the Serbian government. So, the salaries of educational workers in Vojvodina will depend on the will of the minister, whether they will be paid or not. I don't know what that is, and what's the problem with accepting a provision, and at least once a month. Will not wages be paid to educational workers in Vojvodina at least once a month, and will there be late wages? What is this provision in the dynamics of the government? Do we have any idea that there will be delays in wages to educational workers in Vojvodina? The second question, Mr. Vulin is here, I don't know why there's no mention of another autonomous province here, but let's leave it for someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17978	Minister Vulin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17979	I have no doubt that the government of the Republic of Serbia should continue to fund the lives and work of Serbs on KIM. When you mentioned Serbs from KIM, who are in the government based on decisions we have drawn from the Brussels Agreement, they are not rag dolls, they do not belong to me, they do not belong to you, they belong to Serbia and to Serbs. They are also there because the government of the Republic of Serbia, and because Serbia thinks they should be there. They are from the list "Serbia", not from any other list. And don't fight Serbs with Kim that's really wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17980	Dr. Janko Veselinović has a word. I don't know, I'm asking for the base of the call.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17981	Replica, if I may speak to Mr. Vulin for a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17982	He didn't mention you. He answered the question. You said if he could answer me, that and that. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Vocabulary one, if possible... I believe that everyone would ask for more by sentence, by sentence, and then the Rules of Procedure would not be valid. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17983	This is a very interesting amendment, I think someone's joking with us. Here we are asked to define in the budget, imagine that people in the AP Vojvodina will receive a salary every month. I guess that's something that's meant and something that's defined by the Labour Act and some of the other regulations. Only if someone doesn't have some exclusivity towards the AP Vojvodina, so now something special is being sought out for the people who live there. But, you know, in Mionica and Luciani people would ask then, imagine, such an exclusive that they get paid every month. Come on, don't make any more jokes than to be serious, these amendments are really something that makes a mockery of the draft budget itself, and I don't think this really is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17984	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Mr. Veselinović, are you answering again, on what basis? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica on my amendment. Do you really think something important is what you have to say? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Yes, I think it's important. Here you go. Mr. Bozovic, when someone doesn't have the right to reply, I really have to ask. But if it's that important, it's really not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17985	Chairman, you are assessing whether you will give the right to a replica and indeed it is your discretionary right. I thank you for estimating that I should defend my amendment to the end. Namely, this amendment is not a joke, because the member, or in the position that I propose to change, says that the funds for salaries for the employees in education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina as set out in Article 2(2) of this article are paid at the height and by the dynamics established by the Government. If there were no such thing as "in the dynamics established by the government", if the point after the word was "in height", that would not be a problem. However, what – in the dynamics paid by the Government? If it is understood that salaries will be paid regularly, then there is no need, it is excessive – in the dynamics defined by the Government. And because of this concern, and it is said: "Whom the snakes have eaten and the lizard is afraid," I believe that this one guarantee could ensure that educational workers in Vojvodina receive salaries as well as workers in Belgrade and in the second part of Serbia in time, at least once a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17986	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17987	Mr. Veselinović, you know, and you're getting a two-part salary. So, according to the dynamics established by the Republic of Serbia, your salary is paid, as far as I remember, 5th and 20th of the month. So, you receive a profit that is unique to all MPs, but from two parts. It's a dynamic that's been established. This law doesn't get into it. It only defines it as an item, and other laws are further regulated. This law can't even derivate those laws. So that's just the point. Educational workers will be paid as well as educational workers in any other part of Serbia or in any work, only it will be dynamics, whether it is 1st and 15s, or 5th and 20th, or something else, but they will receive their legal guaranteed salary monthly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17988	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, as an authorised representative, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that I'm already beginning to mind that false concern for some citizens. The bearer of this amendment insults me first as a People's MP. I am not a folk MP of Serbia's territory without autonomous provinces, even without Vojvodina. I am a National MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for all of its territory. I have interests in the citizens of Serbia throughout the territory. Then we make up stories that someone, my God, is worried that there's something missing from the AP Vojvodina territory. We, who are not from the territory of an autonomous province, will steal them. Beware of those who exercise authority in the AP, you have shown and proved yourselves. For educators, why don't we say that they gave you away from the Vojvodina Development Bank toothbrushes for the credits they gave the students. That was their concern. We from the SNS are not looking at Serbian citizens whether they are from Vojvodina, Belgrade or elsewhere. They're from Serbia. Don't worry. You've shown us so far how you cared about all the citizens. We're doing it a lot better than you and be sure - we'll never make your mistakes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17990	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. On behalf of the above members and on Article 7 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) On Article 7, Sections 3, 15, 16, 17, 21, 23, 24, 28 and 30, with corrections, was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17991	Dear Prime Minister, Mr Vujovic, I want to thank you first for having managed to be above the many debates that were supposed to help you and the government today to adopt this budget, and in fact they may have shown perhaps all the surfaces of speakers who, in fact, disrespecting what was before them, are trying to throw people in the mud in some way to make a difference, but they have not contributed to you or to this debate. Given that you have completely abandoned many local administrations in the draft of this budget, I thought it would be good to mention the problems of local administrations, and here I agree with some speakers. Given that you mentioned the town of Užice in these 2,005 pages only in the transfer work, I thought it would be good to open several important issues and topics and ask you to use your authority above all, you influence that certain projects that are essential for the development of not only Užica but also for all Western Serbia in the coming period are being realized. I have suggested that in this amendment you separate the money to help projects such as the Užica Integrated University with 50 million dinars, help resuscitate Lake Vrutzi and help with the construction, that is, repairs of the Užica water factory of 100 and 120 million dinars, because believe the problem exists and the water supply problem is not solved in Užica. I thought it was a good proposal also to separate 80 million dinars for the municipalities of the Zlatibor district, for social policy to help people because they are losing their jobs more and more, given the major clashes in the SNS, in some towns and municipalities in the Zlatibor district, and given that they have not provided support from the RS government for some projects, it is necessary that the government intervene urgently and help the region. I thought it would be good to help with 100 million dinars and Užica and the municipality of the Goldibor district for agriculture, to create competitions in agriculture to help this very important branch and to make people have an effect on food production. I'm absolutely sure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17992	The time, Mr. Markovic, has just run out of time you've had as a parliamentary group. Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17993	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers and Guests, I would like to report on this amendment and to say that I agree with the Government's opinion that this amendment cannot be accepted for any number of reasons that are listed here, and I would refer to these remarks concerning local self-government, specifically for the town of Uzice. The fact that 228 million transfer funds is not perfect enough to cover all of our city's needs, but certainly we have to find our own ways to make that money bigger. As for the government and its stance towards the Zlatibor district and the town of Uzic, it certainly cannot be said that we are the forgotten region. It should not be forgotten that at the beginning of the year we had an ecological disaster when we ran out of water and when the government and then the first Deputy Prime Minister, now Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic, reacted at a lightning speed along with his associates, in 12 days we got an alternative water line in which, let's not forget, the government invested 114 million dinars, about a million euros. So even then, it's not really a small amount of money, it's almost now the money that we get by no means of purpose. The other day in the local assembly, we had a situation where the opposition was seeking to increase non-purpose assets, which, of course, is not legally possible and if we were in 2011, 2012, the SNS criticised why and then already started to reduce these transfer funds. Of course the MPs of the Zlatibor County, above all the ruling majority, agree that we should invest in capital investments and projects that have started and we are not giving up on the idea that we have an integrated university. We've talked many times about the importance of an integrated university in Uzic, both for the Uzics themselves and for the entire Zlatibor County. Let me point out once again that according to the analysis, it's a district with the smallest degree of highly educated people, which is really one of the perilous information. We have an inflow of population, migration from both Bosnia and Montenegro, so I really think we should pay attention to the opening of an integrated university. I still want to say that Užice is two steps ahead of others because we already have a study of justification for the existence of this university. I'd also like to say that there are also 15.2 million dinars that are intended for a water treatment plant in the Gorjans. That's what we're going to do now. For three years, it's been tampering in place. Now that's been accelerated over the past few months, and I hope that Užice and that project gets it. Then, we also have a water factory that is not now planned in these budgets because the project is not yet completed. We expect to complete the project at the end of April, and then from the budget reserves, the money that was set for this factory will be forwarded to Užice. We don't doubt that because everything the government has promised so far has been carried out. I'm just reporting to say that really, according to all this data, the Zlatibor County has not been forgotten and that we are now one of the stronger regions thanks to Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17994	I thank Mrs Stojiljkovic. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Markovic, explain to me why you think you have the right to reply after listening carefully? In addition to mentioning Užica, I have not noticed in any way that you are misread or mentioned your name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17995	I can assure you that I am.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17996	I don't think you have the right to a replica, and I really can't allow the MPs to appear just because the city is mentioned where they come from.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17997	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I'm not answering because only the town of Uzice has been mentioned. The context of my presentation is completely misread by my colleague and I think it is necessary for Minister Vujovic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17998	Mr. Markovicu, Mrs. Stojiljkovic did not comment on your presentation at all, and she did not mention you at all, commented on your presentation, nor did she mention you in any way in a negative context. Please don't try to break the Rules of Procedure like that. (Jovan Markovic, from the city: I think she spoke negatively about my presentation. How do you think you have the right to a replica? (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I was misread. I'm telling you again that she didn't talk about your exposure at all so she could misread you. Unfortunately, I can't give you a chance to replicate other MPs. The word is made by the MP Vladan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u17999	I listened carefully to my colleague and carefully read his amendment last night. I might also agree with him that this amendment applies to other agricultural areas in Serbia. I think it's very unrealistic to give one area, and the other areas...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18000	Mr. Milosevic, you must speak by amendment. You didn't get the right to a replica to comment on Mr. Markovic's exposure. You can only talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18001	I have carefully read the amendment and refers to the award of 80 million later to the Zlatibor County for agriculture, since there are no mentions of other regions such as the Mačvan County, such as any other district. I believe that all resources should be shared evenly, not only in one region. I understand my colleague that everyone is fighting for their end, but how he's fighting for the Zlatibor County, so we're fighting for the Machvani County, so we can't accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18002	Thank you, Mr. Milosevic. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18003	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, of course this amendment is not acceptable, but I will refer to part of the amendment relating to division 28, heading 070, to economic classification 472, which refers to social security benefits from the budget, where the proposer of this amendment requests that it be increased, and additionally to provide funding of 30 million dinars intended for social assistance users in the Zlatibor County. Of course, this amendment is not acceptable first because it is in function 070, to the economic classification of 472, which refers to the compensation from the social protection budget. The rights of poor citizens and families, which, in accordance with the Social Protection Act, exercise the right to financial social assistance, to an increased allowance for other people's care and assistance, to add to other people's care and assistance, exercise the right to family housing, exercise the right to professional rehabilitation. Those are the rights guaranteed by law. They are equal for all citizens and citizens of Serbia, no matter where they live. Therefore, the SNS as responsible advocates that all citizens are equal before the law, and here it refers to particularly sensitive citizens and citizens, i.e. a particularly sensitive category of poor individuals and families. There's something else I want to point out. The amendment should not be accepted for another reason. Social protection and social policy and that the functions of one state and local self-government are important, and we must not forget that the foundation of every society is an economy and a healthy economic policy. Only with sound economic policy and social protection and social policy measures can they be achieved in an even greater capacity. I would also refer to the 28th division relating to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, the economic classification of 424, which is specialised services, where the amendment's proposal reiterates that the amount allocated to the social protection chamber is increased and that the amount increased is allocated to the settlement of displaced persons in cities and municipalities of the Zlatibor district. I must point out that on the economic classification of 424 it is approved funding for the social protection chamber, which is otherwise formed as a professional association of all staff in institutions and social services centres, or social protection institutions, that the chamber has its activities in licensing both the social work centres and the institution, and means that it deals primarily with short-term, or specialised jobs. These are all the reasons why this amendment should not be accepted in this part as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18004	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. You're persistent. I have to tell you, it's not enough when someone says they think the amendment should be submitted and that's enough for someone to replicate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18005	Mr. Chairman, if you would respect the Rules of Procedure and if you would hear my argument and if you would concentrate a little on my explanation, and not just those conversations with your colleague, you would appreciate what I'm saying. I appeal to Rule 104 of this Rules of Procedure, which in one part says that, if the MP is wrongly interpreted, that is, his presentation, the MP has the right to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So if you'd listened very carefully to my colleagues, you'd have seen a terrible illogical event happen. I've just come up with a proposal for 80 million dollars for social policy, among other things. I can't understand that both colleagues have refused. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18006	Mr. Markovic, it's not pointless, because you abuse the Rules of Procedure. I'm telling you again and you haven't read the article until the end, it's decided by the chairman whether or not the case from that member has occurred. I say again that it is not enough for someone to say that the amendment feels that the amendment should be rejected, nor has your presentation been commented. None of the speakers, nor any speakers, nor any other speaker commented on your presentation. He was just making his arguments about why the amendment should be rejected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18007	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just can't answer myself how it is possible for colleagues to vote against the amendment that concerns their fellow citizens and who, with these amendments, would get 80 million in social policy, would get money for infrastructure, etc. It's understood they didn't understand the amendment, so they're against it. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18008	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. First, there was no vote. Secondly, you are determined to abuse the Rules of Procedure. I'm trying in the right way to allow the amendments to be explained, but you are persistent and persistently not allowing what is clear to every MP in the hall to be clear, that it is not enough to mention a city, that it is not enough to say that it is thought that some amendment should be rejected, that then the amendment promoter is entitled to replication. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18009	Social policy and social rights are a unique category throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia and cannot be run for one district or run for only one city or in any other way. So social rights apply to citizens, not to territory. And that's how we have to act, and that's how we behave in this budget. Speaking of social protection, we must once again point out that this is a socially responsible budget, 30% of this budget goes to social protection rights. We haven't reduced any single dinar to any social law, from foster benefits to child support or financial welfare, to any single dinar. The easiest thing to say right now is -- how is it possible that you won't vote, and I suggest that we increase the budget by a billion and share it with all the families? Well, it sounds wonderful, but it's really higher demagogue than anything that really helps citizens. Social rights have nothing to do with territory, they have to do with land and every citizen who lives here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18010	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivana Stojiljković, after the amendment. You don't have the right to a replica, you can only do the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18011	Thanks again. I'd just like to say that, of course, it's justified to ask for money, but my explanation was that this money was already provided and that it was already being considered in the direction of solving these problems. I forgot about one more point to say, and that is to solve the problem of battery Vrutci, there is no need to isolate this money, because it has already taken the activities of the Environmental Protection Agency, which is together with the EU Fund, which is called "Interreg", and they are working on interregional co-operation, where a contract between Užica and Poland will be made as an experiment, or in the direction of solving the problem of accumulation of Vrutci. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18012	Thank you. The amendments were submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac to Sections 2 and 19. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7, Sections 2, 22, 24 and 29 of the amendment, MP Jovana Jovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Jovana Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18013	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, if we have in mind this reduction in both wages and pensions and announced austerity measures, then I believe that there is a need for awareness of more realistic frameworks and expenditures for all activities, and therefore for the activities carried out in order to perform the functions of the President of the Republic. If citizens are saving everywhere, I think it would be great for the president to be a role model, so he can save on his activities. Since you have suggested that more is set aside for single help to priests, monks and religious officials, and that you have stated in your reasoning and in programme activities that this is done in order because the church also has a role as priests, monks, play a role in keeping citizens in the Republic and that their role is also in international and regional co-operation. I would just like to remind you that the role of the church is to promote and expand the faith, and that it is precisely the task of the state to keep the citizens and to enable these citizens to live a better life in this country. What I think is good to focus money on is to focus money, let's say, on the going of professors and students to foreign universities to exchange experiences and professional training or, let's say, the employment of young people, so that young people don't leave the country, because we've talked a lot about it today, given that youth employment isn't defined even a dinar. Again, today we talked about the fact that as many as 100m euros have been allocated to railway subsidies. When we talk again about these subsidies, in section 24 of 2015, no money was allocated to the Kragujevac Centre for Foreign Cereals, which deals with scientific and research work, and based on a stability programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this programme is scheduled to last for three years...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18014	Time, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18015	Let me just finish my sentence. The program is scheduled to last three years. So far, two years have been allocated to the Centre for Foreign Cereals, and in 2015 there is no plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18016	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18017	The government of the Republic of Serbia is now taking all the measures that young people would not leave our country, by referring to all young people, not just those who are, say. In 2008-2012, as a party member, they got jobs in public enterprises, and everyone else left the country, but for all young people, and we are trying to make sure that these young people have a future, which is most important, to present the budget in the most serious way, to show realistically what we have, to make the budget deficit significantly smaller than the previous year, to save the money of the Republic of Serbia to the citizens and thus to ensure that these young people have a better chance of getting a job in the next and all years. Once again, one really good news, it's that for eight months in a row unemployment has been dropping. We have an increase in employment. I have cited companies, and I can do it today, a large number of companies that are open, who will, who recognize this responsible government policy and recognize that this government, leading this responsible policy, is creating favourable economic conditions for companies to open up here. I think we're an objective leader in the region, which is what he's talking about and, of course, the summit we had recently with the Chinese prime minister. I think people recognize such elements of our policy, and that's why young people will have a more and more chance of staying here and having jobs. Was that enough so far? It is not and of course we need to make more effort, but for the first time in serious state policy, we show that this is something that we are thinking about in the most responsible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18018	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18019	We are certainly, and this is seen by the solutions in this budget, stressed that the next year, as far as employment is concerned, will be turned to young people in the first place. As a contribution, I can tell you that the National Employment Service has increased its budget for active employment measures by more than a billion dinars. Last year, in the last budget, we had a billion and 800 million and 600 million dinars for hiring people with disabilities, and now we have two billion and 800 million, plus 500 million dinars for hiring people with disabilities. Foresaw different incentives for new employment, so that depending on which municipality you are located, you have incentives from 150,000 to 250,000 dinars, and for people with disabilities from 180,000 to 300,000 dinars. For young people, who have completed at least high school, who have no experience, have no internship, we have provided the possibility to subsidize part of their income, which they will receive in a period of professional training within six months, and then the employer keeps them for another six months. We have also identified such coverage through active employment measures that we expect 130, or 129,542 persons to be protected next year and covered by measures, active employment measures. Most of them are about to be young.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18020	Thank you. Mr. Bozovic, on what grounds? According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18021	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 27 and Article 108, for the simple reason that you repeated the mistake of about an hour ago, when you had the Minister of Government once, and then immediately after that and the second, without the right to reply, made it appear by amendment, which is using twice the time, and you didn't point out whether this case was about the replica. I don't think it's fair to the MPs who propose the amendment, and on the other hand they have no right to replicate, and they've asked for several times. In this way you do not put those who chose ministers, even in the same plane with them, and you know it by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and divide the government that is the country's central political institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18022	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. We also believe that the wish of the amendment promoter is to get an explanation from the government's members on the table of amendments. Also, I did not give a word to one minister twice in a row, but two ministers were given the right to speak and spend the time of their three hours available as members of the government. You, if you think... Perhaps it is a bigger problem that there are more members of the government here than MPs of the opposition. Mr. Bozovic, do you want me to give an explanation to the end? Yeah. ) Also, when ministers are not present, you say – why are they not present? When they are present, you say – why are they present? When they give you an explanation, you say, "Why did they give?" When they do not give you, you say, "Why do they not give?" You must prescribe us how to please you as an opposition, in what way. Also, if Miss Jovanovic had asked for the right to a replica, she would have got it. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Can I say? You can't. You can just say yes or no. Yeah. Thank you. Mr. Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure? (No) Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Section 3, Sections 3, 22 and 28 by Parliamentarian Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18023	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished members of the government, we have proposed in the amendment that it is unacceptable for the ministry without portfolios, in charge of emergency situations, to receive funding of 24 million 837 000 and that item, and we have foreseen these funds for the Ministry of Defence, for the simple reason that they have brought the ministries without a portfolio in charge of emergency situations already seen during the May floods when we were unable to find Minister Ilic. It is unnecessary to talk about the purpose of the ministry in general, as well as these funds. It's important to us, and that's the point, every penny. I thank Mr Vujovic for the simple reason he had patience and to hear in the principle debate, and now all the amendments, for the simple reason that he tried to spend in a precise way funds that were not large. For this reason, although Serbia owes every three hours a million euros, I ask one question in line -- when it comes to borrowing, what will the government spend it on? Out of 709.3 billion new debts on the main payment, 509.6 billion dinars will go to interest 132.6 billion, and mathematics says 67 billion dinars remain, where they are not seen until the end of what they will be spent on. So why are we in charge, if that's not necessary, as we have a chance to see here?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18024	Time, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18025	In that case, the deficit wouldn't be 191 billion, I'm ending it would be 258 billion dinars. It's an important item. The difference of 67 billion dinars, which seems to me, in one non-transparent way, to be spent and foreseen in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18026	The word has a minister in the government, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18027	I have to say that, unfortunately, although there was a borrowing and the government had committed itself to repaying very expensive loans, which I think is a good move from the government and the finance ministry, that the wrong moves and those nice people who robbed us all over Serbia, not to call them criminals, who put us in debt to the Vojvodina Development Bank for 400m euros, over four billion euros, we would now invest those four billion in something else. Today, the four billion would be used to increase the allocations for different categories of our inhabitants, but we can't. We can't because some nice people have eaten us, destroyed our banks, not just Vojvodina Development Bank, but other banks. That's why I think the government is doing the best it can, as far as it can, with all the weight on its back, the burden of those nice people who robbed us and who did everything they could to keep us from having a future. Unfortunately for these people, and fortunately for the citizens of Serbia, this Serbia will have a future, this government knows what these people are doing and... It's not too big a budget, we have as much as we have, we're trying to keep it even.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18028	The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18029	I'll try to answer the amendment's proposal, where the interest payments come from. The three billion are in charge of the Republic of Serbia for back-up commitments, and taken from the 2012 budget. No subsidies were paid to farmers, public works were carried out that were not in the budget, and within six months the entire deficit was spent because the perfect tax administration had been executed by only 60%. That is what they so successfully admire and former government in the City of Nis. We spent three billion euros on this, spent a billion euros on the recovery of the damage caused by Agrobanka and the Vojvodine Development Bank, and therefore we had another 2 billion and 700m euros in interest payments. Then a fellow MP wonders where 132 billion dinars – spending on interest. You take a nice digitron, paper and pen, and multiply 17 times 7.5 to 9%, and multiply at the annual level, and add to that your three billion commitments and unexplored, a billion euros for Agrobank and the Vojvodina Development Bank and 2.5 billion euros for the interest so far, and you will get to that amount that you mention. Don't be surprised, those 132 billion are nothing more than the result of the former regime, I don't know where they get the right to ask more questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18030	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Bozovicu, you can only get a replica of Mr. Arsic's exposure. I thought you were reporting for Mr. Nebojja Stefanovic's exposure, and he was talking about nice people, so there's nothing in the negative context, so I don't know that you recognized yourself there. You have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18031	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Whenever you chair the assembly, I must confess to you, the spirit of democracy feels more than when there is a President of the Assembly. Thank you. What I wanted to say to the gentleman who was my predecessor in the exhibit is that I don't need a calculator to figure out what 22 billion minus 15 billion, what debt it was in 2008. It is equal to seven billion, which is the responsibility of the Serbian Progressive Party for the last three years, as much as you are in power, Mr. Predator. I think that every penny today as a Republic of Serbia is extremely important to us. That is why we insisted that this budget be transparent, that it be a public debate, and then essential in this home for the simple reason for citizens to find out what awaits them in 2015. They have a recession waiting for the citizens to be fired from their jobs, the citizens are expecting a much worse life...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18032	Mr. Arsic, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18033	Thank you, Mr. Becic. ... A much worse life in 2015. Young people will not be able to get to work, essential reforms are not being implemented for which the Democratic Party would certainly also support this government, which are reforms that signify the fight against tax evasion, against cigarette smuggling and tobacco, against all those things that this government has failed to implement, and that is also the rationalisation of public sector employees, but not in the way that it envisions with this budget and this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18034	I thank Mr. Bozovic. The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative. Replica, on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18035	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that's what I'm talking about. But it's obviously free to wink and whisper with deafness, according to our people. Reforming the economy, telling me the MP of the former regime. While the regime was in power, 400,000 people were out of work. Don't tell me more about economic reform. Don't tell me more about the layoffs. Four hundred thousand people in the Republic Bureau of Statistics, which you have set, which has not been changed. We move on, since you're waving your hand, 22 billion less than the three billion debts you've left us is 19 billion. A billion euros in damage recovery, you find it funny to have made a billion euros in the Vojvodina Development Bank and the Agrobanks. That's 18 billion. Two billion and 700 are interest payments on the loans and debts you've left us. Do not boast of it any more, for our people say again – what they are ashamed of, someone else is proud. Don't make me think of you like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18036	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Markovic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18037	Am I right or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18038	According to your Rules of Procedure, do you have any idea how I broke the Rules of Procedure? I hope it's not about the replica Mr. Arsic had.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18039	Mr. Chairman, I call on Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I see you've been busy talking again. Otherwise you'd probably interrupt the previous speaker, because he insulted not only me and my colleague and the people who are here, but the people from the DS. In fact, you missed the chance to warn the gentleman when he called us dead and blind and now you're probably surprised what I'm saying because you weren't in the middle of a debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18040	Mr. Markovic, you can't do that. I listened very carefully to Mr. Arsic's speech, and as chairman, I have both the right and the opportunity to consult with the deputy secretary or secretary occasionally on the course of the session. So don't call it...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18041	Mr. President, you've been sort of...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18042	Allow me, so you don't ever make a mistake. Just my opinion whether I'm a good Rules of Procedure or whether I should give someone a replica or not, I can consult with my associates. So, Mr. Markovic, I wouldn't find it strange if Mr. Bozovic had reported injury to the Rules of Procedure or replica, because after his speech, Mr. Arsic was given the right to reply. But it is not clear to me on what basis you who have neither responded under that amendment nor spoken, why did you find yourself in Mr Arsic's speech?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18043	Mr. Chairman, I've just tried to point out that every time there's an insult here, you talk about people who are opposition or you don't hear or pretend you don't hear. The previous speaker is very offensive to us when he said we were blind and deaf, after we didn't know how to count, and then he collected, as he says grandmothers and frogs, and you allow it all the time, and of course, sometimes with a smile, sometimes without a smile, but it gives one impulse to all of them. Here, now a colleague laughs, completely satisfied, first of all with your reaction.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18044	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. Time's up. Surely I can't forbid the MPs to have a smile on their faces or a sad expression. Also, when the former regime is said, I cannot be psychic that I know exactly which MP was meant when someone in the replication mentioned the former regime. So I can't be psychic to know if that was relevant to you, Mr. Markovic, to Mr. Bozovic or anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18045	Mr. Chairman, exactly what you just said confirms what I said earlier, that you were not listening. My colleague didn't say the previous regime, but his discussion just referred to those of us present here and the people of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18046	But, Mr. Markovic, I ask again, the discussion was after Mr. Bozovic's discussion, I say it would be no wonder if Mr. Bozovic answered and said everything you said. Then you might think Mr. Arsic's exposure was to him. But I don't understand on what basis you're reporting, who haven't spoken under that amendment? It could also have been any MP of your MP's to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18047	Mr. Chairman, I've come forward for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I have the right as an MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18048	That you're asking me to ban someone from saying certain words when they come to the amendment, when they come to the line. I can't do that, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18049	Mr. Chairman, just...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18050	It's not worth it, Mr. Markovic. Do you want the assembly to declare itself in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18051	Mr. Chairman, just...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18052	Thank you. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18053	Mr. Chairman, I think you've injured Article 105. The Rules of Procedure have been broken down with a people's MP who is disturbed by people's proverbs, who is bothered by the people because they do not want to vote for their party. In order to avoid any further concerns, I will get you Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic, a collection of folk proverbs, so when they advertise to tell them which side it is on. I really don't understand, if I say the People's Proverbs, why someone's being identified right now. That's not my problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18054	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure! Mr. Markovic, you have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: How do you know when I didn't explain? I'm just calling on Article 104 of my colleague who's looking at me... Mr. Markovic, then, if anyone is watching you, do you have the right to a replica? Please don't. Here, Mr. Markovic, I promise I won't have another smile on my face. [[Jovan Markovic, from the scene: your smile and smile colleague who just...]] The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18055	Thank you, Your Honor. This is another in a series of amendments that we cannot accept, given that they do not contain any arguments worth paying attention to. On the other hand, the amendment promoter said - I don't need a digitron to know what to add. I believe that by any chance the Government of 2008 used the digitron here, we wouldn't be in this situation today, but you didn't use it, so you went out of your head and, well, we came here where we are, to pay more than a billion euros today just on the basis of the interest of expensive loans. I think that in the future you should, if you want to offer some plan and program, first of all take away the digitron. This government took away the digitron and typed in the numbers you left us and came up with a devastating result. But the same digitron has to be respected, given that the other ones are only big zeros or big minuses. That's why it's hard for me to mention youth in Serbia that has been leaving, and during the rule of all governments since 2000, 500,000 young people have left. I'm not saying they're not leaving today, but you're wrong when you say 80,000. You took that out on your own. Maybe six times less, because you like six times as much to increase everything and even the cost of Bojan Pitiæ. I guess that number six is joining you at 6%, as much as you've won, but then act like it. Don't lecture us about what you didn't know to do. This is the budget that offers the future, supported by the difficult situation in 2015, which we expect, but we do not lie to our people, as I said it is important to talk about local budgets, because life is in every local community that you have forgotten over the past 14 years. We're dealing with life and essence, and we're going to distribute as much resources as we have, we're going to spread out as long as we are, because if you'd done it today, we wouldn't have had a situation like this. We cannot provide money for every segment of our society, but what we have will be shared equally to everyone in all of Serbia, not as we have seen here certain people who suggest that only citizens in an AP Vojvodina pay some wages. The Serbian Progressive Party also takes care of citizens in Vojvodina, Belgrade, throughout Serbia, in every local self-government. That it's hard, it is hard, but I'm sure we'll be able to achieve the results that have always been unattainable to you very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18056	Thank you. Your parliamentary group only has four minutes left. The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18057	The Honorable Chairman, here comes the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so I am talking to you and her, therefore, about the fact that we are discussing the budget of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of 2014 and another 11 supporting laws, and we do not have the opportunity to do so. We will be in a position to arrive by midnight, and our parliamentary group has about 40 amendments left. This budget will not only be invisible, but it will be night and dark and everything else. And worst of all, we won't be able to tell what we're proposing to change in it, how to protect our citizens with reduced salaries, pensioners who have reduced pensions, funds that will be empty for new employment next year, funds that will be full of new layoffs, etc. We don't have a chance because we talked about the AP Vojvodina budget and a little while ago, and you didn't interrupt the speaker...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18058	Tell me the breach of the Rules of Procedure now. You're the one who reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18059	I said, Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18060	You talk about what you want to talk about or not to talk about others.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18061	So, I want to talk...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18062	It's an abuse of the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, to say everything you have against the arguments of others.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18063	I wanted to say what should be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18064	I know what's on the agenda very well, the thousandth time you said that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18065	But you don't want to hear it before midnight.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18066	What to hear before midnight?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18067	Well, you don't want to hear the explanation of our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18068	I want to hear the explanation of your amendments, and there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18069	Yes, because it was spoken past the subject. My previous speaker spoke about the AP Vojvodina budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18070	Does that also apply to the DS parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18071	It specifically referred to a speaker who spoke before me, who spoke about the AP Vojvodina budget that was adopted yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18072	Yes, and then we heard about the budget of Užica before, and then we heard about Nis's budget. So let's be objective. Thank you. You've been talking for exactly two minutes and 31 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18073	You are the chairman and should not let the AP Vojvodina and Kosovo budget be discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18074	Thank you very much, have a seat. You're a gentleman man, we won't talk at the same time. Thank you, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18075	What does it mean I'm a gentleman man?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18076	Well, because you are a gentleman, and you won't jump into my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18077	Of course I'll sit down, but I'm asking you to follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18078	We will continue to do as MP Veselinovic asked, according to the amendments. Thank you very much. The amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic to section 7th and 19th. She's not here. Does anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 7 of Sections 3 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. He's not here. The amendments were submitted by MP Djordje Stojsic to Sections 3, 20, 24 and 27. At Section 3, 19, 24 and 25, the amendment was submitted by the MP Mr Dejan Chapo. The word is Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18079	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I know it's not common for him to appear at the moment when there's no proposal in the O.R. to defend his amendment, but I just can't miss an opportunity without saying something about the importance of this amendment and the way it's proposed. It is, in fact, an amendment that is intended for its purpose, or at least aimed at the government's acceptance of it, to reduce separations for the Serbian Orthodox Church, spiritual and cultural heritage, material and immaterial cultural goods in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't know what the motive is, and we're not gonna find out what the Proposer's motive is to propose a amendment like this. One of the things could be ignorance and ignorance of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. In that sense, I just want to say to the public that the role of the Serbian Orthodox Church is not only religious and long ago is not just a religious issue in Kosovo and Metohija, but that it is a question of both the state integrity of the state of Serbia and the survival of the peoples of Kosovo and Metohija. That is why it is essential to have a strong relationship between the institutions of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia and the Serbian Orthodox Church through the Eparchy of Rasko-Prizren, because it guarantees survival, protection of the vast cultural and spiritual goods, without which, of course, we can hardly survive and exist there. But if the reason for this amendment is absolutely knowledge of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija by the promoters, then the matter is much more complex and then we can only conclude that the amendment that has defined its political activity is only north of Sava and Danube, in fact in the same venture or at least has the same difference with those who write threatening messages at the High Decins gate today, and that is because it is dangerous and that is why I wanted to draw attention to the importance of the amendments which in its form says that protection of cultural and historical heritage in Kosovo and Metohija is a front for unintentional spending of funds. If this were proposed by the Government of Vojvodina, I would understand what non-purpose spending means, but this is the Government of Serbia and therefore I ask all MPs, especially MPs originating in Kosovo and Metohija, whether they are the position or opposition to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18080	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Do you want me to hear what member? You're spending the money of Serbian citizens on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure because you've wasted your time. I guarantee there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. How can someone make a breach of the Rules of Procedure as a member of Parliament speaks from the chairman's silence? And he doesn't do anything else. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I am now referring to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where the MP of the people was very insultingly expressed about the second MP. About what? Didn't I hear? You've interpreted it as offensive talking about the amendment. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: He was very offensive to the MP who submitted the amendment. Please, which colleague didn't mention his name. I guess there's an MP here who's not in the opposition right now who says why he thinks this amendment shouldn't be accepted. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: For you think Madam Chairman that this comparison does not refer to a colleague who has submitted the amendment... I can't, you're using time to bring something out here right now that can't be said, because you don't have time simply. Time is determined by Serbian citizens in the elections. I don't determine or determine anyone else who runs the session. Let's move on, you're really just standing there arguing with everyone who runs the session. Thank you. No injured Rules of Procedure. He didn't have any insults, he has the right to say he understands the amendment. He has the right and the ruling majority to say the same as the opposition. I won't give you a warning, but I'm asking you to hold back, too. The 7th Sections 3,16,19 and 27 of the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enim Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18081	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, honourable members of the Government and representatives of the ministries, we have submitted this amendment to Article 7 of the draft budget law because the funds intended for the work of national councils, i.e. national councils of national minorities, are not adequate and do not meet the real needs of national councils in order for them to carry out their responsibilities in the fields prescribed by the Constitution and the laws of this State. We have recently had elections for national councils, i.e. national councils, and today we have established 20 national councils. There are several other national councils in the announcement, which means that we will have a greater number of national councils in this year 2015 than we had in 2014. However, we will also have smaller resources for work that are separate from work and for the functioning of these national councils. If we take into account that these national councils operate and work under one bad National Council Act, and the conditions under which they work and add these reduced resources, we can conclude that someone does not want national councils to successfully carry out their mission in our country and in our society. If we look at the ruling majority's activities and how this budget applies to national councils, we can also see that it is actively working on it. If these activities continue, I think in six months, many tips won't even have a quorum to work with. By adopting this amendment, you are helping to create real opportunities for members of national minorities to carry out their individual and collective rights prescribed for them by domestic and international rights and standards. In this regard, we called on the prime minister to finally convene that first session of the Republic Council for National Minorities before adopting this budget, because we believe it is not too late to sit with representatives of national minorities, or the presidents of national councils and with competent ministers, and to try together to find the best model and put it into this budget, so that members of national minorities can get their place in this budget, and to find a model for all these specific needs of national communities. We are free to write strategies and action plans unless you foresee funds in this budget and thus show serious intent to deal with the question of minorities. Everything else, unfortunately, is an empty story and a dead letter on paper. We have also responded to the names of projects in chapter 27, point 0) where international cultural co-operation, cultural action of Serbs abroad, is among other things. You know, in our country there are a large number of citizens living abroad who are not Serbian nationalities, who also need to finance their actions. I don't see why there's a difference between citizens this way. We have very important tasks and steps in the process of negotiations for the accession of our country to the European Union. One of these tasks, EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan File told us, during his stay in this House, which is the creation of a strategy on national minorities. The seriousness that this strategy really is realised is reflected in the amount of funds it is intended for. Unfortunately, so far, those funds are zero. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18082	Thank you. The word is Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18083	When it comes to the funds and the efforts this government is making to improve the self-government of national minorities in Serbia, there we can recognise two forms of action. One is through direct support for the councils, which are very successful, I would like to point out, established this year. And, secondly, the new councils and all have been established and started working through other council institutions, it is the government's intention to establish a national minority council for all of Serbia very early in 2015. However, what is important to bear in mind is that to improve the status and exercise of the rights of national minorities, it must be done through most other divisions, or a good part of other budget sections, and we are committed to all relevant ministries through our programmes. What is really important for 2015 and what is already under way in the preparation of the Action Plan for the realisation of Chapter 23, this is to adopt one action plan for the realisation and strengthening of the position of national minorities and their rights. Such an action plan will bring together the work of the Council itself, but will also focus the work of the authorities, the wider bodies of the Government. In this context, it is very important that we understand that it is also important that national councils of national minorities have to focus their work 100% on the realization of what is being achieved by the Constitution of certain areas of self-government of national minorities and that they spend their resources better than they have done in the past. This year we'll monitor it and coordinate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18084	The word has Enis Imamovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18085	Dear Minister, thank you for this comment. You have indeed just repeated everything that we have said in defense of this amendment, to be done, and we have therefore insisted that the prime minister finally schedule this first session of the Republic Council for National Minorities in which, I will remind those who do not know, according to the composition, should sit the prime minister, the competent ministers, the competent ministers who cover all these areas. We have just asked it to be before the adoption of this budget, so that the competent ministers can include in their programme and in their budgets for next year all those needs of national councils and national minorities that we need to implement with this Action Plan. Unfortunately, you mentioned an action plan that should not be adopted until next year. We do not have the resources in this budget for this action plan and the ministers have not provided in their budgets for the implementation of the action plan, and therefore we have stressed that it is necessary to see what needs are before the adoption of the budget and what problems the national communities are facing and that we really make a strategic pathway to address these problems. You mentioned the funds. Unfortunately, we, I did this in previous address and said that in 2014 we had a smaller number of tips and a larger amount of resources that were allocated to their work. In 2015, unfortunately, we have a larger, smaller amount of resources for their work, and thank God, we have a number of national councils, as I said, already 20 have been formed, and there are several more in the announcement. We have reduced the resources for their work by this budget, which I believe has largely endangered and threatened their performance in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18086	The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted amendments to Articles 7 and 25 of the amendments. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, a representative of the proposer accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 7th Sections 16 and 42 of the amendments to the correction were jointly submitted by the MPs Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7, sections 16, 20, 24, 25 and 28, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Gordana Komic and Vesna Martinović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18087	Thank you. Of the various positions I try to reduce on one side, and on the other hand, I am willing to talk about the clarity and reasonableness of choosing a position, I choose only one, because it is important to hear the voice of any of us in a position where there is too little money, and a lot of obstacles and prejudice. It's about including all children in primary and secondary education. The law is in force, the years are behind us, the problems are much more and much more of the problems that you can't solve money, much more resistance to one process that has lasted very complicated in all societies, which is that in a normal regular system they continue from preschool, hopefully from the education that we will have since the third year, we have the possibility that children with disabilities, with individual educational programs that have otherwise been disrupted in development, which involve normal intellectual development, are not isolated from other children, but that they go to classes with all our other children. I'm only trying to add one sum, with full awareness that there's no way for the minister to accept it, and I don't blame it, and there's no minister who would accept this kind of movement, but it's an illustration that it's a policy and that the finance minister, every minister was a member of the party or not a politician. My intention is to ask the Minister of Finance and ask all of us to take care of one process that is a little extreme, for which there is never enough money, and that with enough money and enough of our vote "for" personal assistants, for the help of teachers, teachers and teachers, we do indeed make this process of including all children in our schools a routine for all good. It's the only intention of submitting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18088	Member of the 7th Sections 19 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18089	Dear President Gojkovic, Honored Minister Vujovic, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have been discussing this law for a very long time, and time has moved away, most of our colleagues of Catholic religion have left the session and are probably at Masses now, so I would take the opportunity to take advantage of all citizens of Serbia, believers of Catholic religion and those of Orthodox religion, according to the Julian calendar, congratulations Christmas Eve and tomorrow Christmas. I hope I didn't get out of the agenda much. Also, I am taking the opportunity to thank Minister Vujovic for accepting two technical amendments, so I hope that he too, which is essential. The essence of this amendment is that it split 19 in Article 7. The Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, to transfer two billion from this division to division 24 Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, as follows: one billion to activity – Support for realisation of general interest in scientific research and half a billion to modernise primary schools and high school infrastructures. I hope the minister and the government will have the hearing to support this, too, because they are really in very difficult conditions of primary and secondary school. When it comes to basics, only one third has adequate conditions, which is a particularly bad situation in rural areas. I once again urge the Minister to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18090	Time. I let you celebrate the holiday. On Article 7th, 20 amendments were submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18091	The Honorable Chairman, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this is a logical continuation of the amendment to Article 1 which I have provided for increased revenues of two billion based on the National Bank's profits. I think it's more real. The amendment was rejected for the reason that it is an unreal source of funding and I think it is far more realistic than the assumption that the EPS will make a greater profit, which is said in the explanation of the part that more money will come from public enterprises than this and the previous year, and it is clear that this cannot happen if the EPS balances of last year are known and how profits have been achieved. What I thought was to use funds is two billion for small and medium-sized enterprises to get equipment. According to polls, 33% of employers think they fire people next year and we will not have an increase in employment, and I think it is a burning problem in Serbia and should react in a concrete way than 160 million investments in Er Serbia, if it is known that only last year, Er Serbia has doubled the loss. I think there's a development component missing in this budget and there's no idea in this budget and government policy how people are going to get a job. I don't think the survey methodology is going to help people in Serbia find a job, because if we know that the number of formal employees is falling and compared to 2012, let's say 35,000 is smaller, then we don't see how this situation can change in the following year. I think the only solution is to really make it possible for businessmen to come to money, to allow them to buy the necessary equipment and thus hire people. I think that investment in problematic projects that have no cost-effectiveness study, such as Er Serbia, because we have never heard of what is specifically expected, how many employees, how many...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18092	You've wasted your time. Thank you. On Article 7, Sections 20, 3rd and 23rd of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Canak. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Stefana Miladanovic and Dr Aleksandra Tomic to article 7. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18093	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, in principle we touched on the subject of women's entrepreneurship and this is about one attempt for groups of MPs to propose something very constructive for all women in the business. This is that in certain public competitions when they appear for an application for "Start App" credit to ordinary lending, approximately special attention in the score is given to women who are owners of small and medium-sized enterprises. In this way, we wanted essentially not to disturb the budget classification at all. We know that this, at this point, is practically impossible in this model, but we thank you for understanding and we hope that in the coming year we will really find ways for women who intend to buy new equipment and develop their business and hire and create new jobs to really be able to do so. Since 60% of women are on unemployment records compared to men who are 40% and women have only 15% of the property in their possession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18094	The word is Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18095	I wanted to complement my colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, on behalf of the Women's Parliamentary Network, because I believe that this amendment encourages the development of entrepreneurship in Serbia, and above all, the development of women's entrepreneurship. Thirty per cent of women in Serbia own businesses. The development of entrepreneurship is Serbia's development opportunity and one of the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we, with this amendment rejected this time, expect the Government of the Republic of Serbia to create all technical and necessary conditions to encourage women's entrepreneurship. The analyses carried out show that entrepreneurship is specific and that special measures need to be taken, especially according to their needs. In this way, we give the opportunity to develop companies in Serbia and, above all, to female entrepreneurship because we believe that this will put in place additional efforts to encourage women-owned enterprises. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to understand all the characteristics of women's entrepreneurship and to create adequate programmes accordingly. You, Mr. Vujovicu, know how important the gendarme is and I expect you to be on our proposal the initiator in the Government of the Republic of Serbia of these specific programmes for the development of entrepreneurship, particularly women's entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18096	The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18097	We had a chance to talk on the board this amendment this morning and we said that the introduction of this amendment without an operational definition or operationalisation was just a principle that would create an abstract obligation without being able to implement it, follow it and learn something from it. We have committed ourselves to include this as one of these important criteria for defining projects, monitoring and achieving the results of projects and programmes when amending the Budgetary System Act, when introducing a second phase or second degree programming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18098	Thank you. The word is Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18099	Dear President, allow me, in the capacity of the Chairman of the Committee on Human, Minority Rights and Gender Equality in whose jurisdiction it is a position of equality or inequality or inequality in matters of women in our society, to support the amendment of distinguished colleagues and the Women's Parliamentary Network. Mr. Minister, this argument of yours without an operational definition absolutely does not understand, but be sure that after three months we will schedule a session of the Committee on Human Rights, Minority and Gender Equality and that I will ask you how you have foreseen these additional measures and we will follow what you are doing, because you have said it in an explanation and I believe that you will stick to it and that you will find the possibility that this amendment, which has been proposed and passed on to work, because I think Serbia's women deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18100	The minister wants to answer, he hasn't used two minutes. He can answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18101	Just an extra one to add. We have committed ourselves even more precisely this morning to look at the experiences of international organisations in this area that have been applying the criteria of gender equality for decades and to try to include it in the amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18102	Thank you. In Article 7 of Sections 20 and 24, the amendment was submitted jointly by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of Sections 20 and 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of Sections 20 and 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kostreš. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of Sections 20 and 23, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18103	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ms. Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow respected citizens of Serbia, my amendment refers to a division treated by the Ministry of Economy, which encourages direct investment where 6.5 billion of these budgets are foreseen. I suggested that those 6.5 billion from this position be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection in Chapter 23.10, the Agrarian Payments Administration, economic classification 01, and then instead of 23.486.645,000, there would be approximately the same resources as we had in 2014 for an incentive with an explanation that I believe that these funds should be channelled towards the rapid development of the spring production, that they should not be reduced in the 2015 budget and what is very important to change the system of subsidisation of agricultural production. You, Madam Minister, in the principle debate, explained that this year the area will be subsidized up to 20 hectares. This way of subsidising that I propose, which is that as a basis, a reference contribution is taken depending on the part of the state, whether Vojvodina, central Serbia or southern Serbia, per unit of the hectare area, has avoided possible abuse of use for obtaining subsidies for the rental, i.e. for purchased state land, rather than subsidise the yields and thus encourage production and directly affect the growth of social product in the Republic of Serbia. I think it's worth thinking about, and I urge the assembly majority to accept this amendment and de facto to support what we advocate, which is the development of agriculture. I'm going to use these last few seconds because I haven't had time to support the amendment of the female parliamentary network, so you have our support.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18104	Thank you. To Article 7. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Government Representatives, my amendment refers to Section 21. The Department of Construction, Traffic and Infrastructure. I predicted that from the assets of the appraisal relating to subsidies to public non-profit companies from the sum of 6,115,000 dinars, 200,000 dinars are transferred to a special section that would refer to the funds needed to produce the planning documentation for the first order of the First Order of Požarevac, Kučevo, Majdanpek and the Bulgarian border. The spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia, adopted in 2010, envisions building this time and needs to separate the necessary funds in the 2015 budget law. It's worth 200,000 dinars to make this planning documentation. Otherwise, connecting Corridor 10 with Bulgaria's border through Pozarec, Kučev and Majdanpek would stimulate the economic development of Braničevsky and Borsko district, of course both Zajecarski and would stop the population's outflow, allow for more efficient trafficking of people, goods and capital, and two strategic and important corridors would be connected. These are the Corridors seven (the Danube River) and the Corridor 10. We all know the state of eastern Serbia. It remained devastated, remained with a very large number of unemployed, poor and, since it is working on building Corridors 10 and 11, I think it is important to connect eastern Serbia with these corridors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18106	Member of the 7th Divisions 21 and 22th of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic to article 7 of Sections 21 and 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 7. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment concerns as well as the law on amending and supplementing the Budget Law. It is about the Compensation Fund and the resources necessary for the operation of that fund. I understand, the law was passed in 2011 and it did not predict exactly which section of the ministry separates funds from the budget for the work of the Compensation Fund. This is very important, and I believe that the Ministry of Finance will have to find these funds in one way or another, as it is important for banking not to issue trade records on the basis of an existing gender which is guaranteed by peasants for loans that are withdrawn from production. We believe, and I think the Prime Minister, that in the future, this system of public warehouses will have to expand further, to reach the last village, that agriculture can be financed in such a way. I understand the ministry that there was no state in this country and that we have to make a state that we can finance with revenue. However, with the natural return of agricultural land, which I also recommend due to budget savings, this is one of the most important issues, the issue of agriculture. So it's not just about the development of agriculture and food industry, it's also a demographic issue, given that the village is empty territory, that in many villages there is no longer a dog to bark, that many villages are extinct and that the average age is 59 years and that we as a people have to be aware that the white plague is the worst ethnic cleansing, and that we are aware that foreign cradles of our territory can be occupied and that this can be the most successful aggression. I also appeal to the ministry that if it has not adopted this amendment, it will find a solution to the work of the Compensation Fund, having an understanding of the difficult situation and inherited problems. I believe we can all fight for a future together. No one will give us the future. There is no such future. That's why we need to come together and deal with a lot of problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18108	Thank you. To Article 7. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marija Obradovic, Marjana Maras and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18109	Thank you. As did the amendment submitted by counterparts Aleksandra Tomic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic, and this one is very similar, just as we addressed the Ministry of Agriculture and requested that, within the framework of the rural development measures, we also introduce the principle of gender equality in the distribution of those funds. It is indeed a newspaper, as well as in this previous amendment, as well as in the amendment to the Budgetary System Law, what the Minister and supported and I think we are on a good track somewhere, although all four amendments have been rejected, that indeed on the next budget and planning and adoption of the next budget we are making a major shift, but it is up to us to all work together in the coming year. I will now ask Minister Bogosavljevic, who is indeed in the previous term as one of us and as one of the members of the Women's Parliamentary Network participated in such similar amendments of the previous year, to explain and to explain what he can do within his ministry, and this applies primarily to the adoption of a regulation according to which rural development measures will be shared. Somewhere in informal consultations, we have reached some principled agreement that MPs should certainly participate in the preparation of this regulation, at least to be consulted, and of course the associations of different farmers, farmers themselves and entrepreneurs within rural development. I would like to thank not only all Members of the Women's Parliamentary Network, 84 of us, but especially the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Marijan Rističević, who has been very helpful in preparing these and similar amendments, which gives us unselfish support both on the ground and here in parliament to really help bring this principle of gender equality into the planning of the Serbian budget and to become a daily one. What makes me very happy is that Minister Vujovic, as someone who was also part of the world's economies and followed those trends, said without any problem that this birth dimension should be something that is represented in the Serbian budget. Thank you again for your support and the professional public who followed this discussion. We must not give up until we have our first budget with that birth rate, and in the meantime we all work together. As Meho Omerovic said, for the next three months we would have to ask if we had taken the first steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18110	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18111	From the time of the authorized representative. Just for a little while, to thank all the colleagues who have done much more than I have done and to draw up this amendment and the expert public who helped us in the argument, because it is not a little pleasure to sign an amendment that has skipped party tarabs that agree on the party's goals on the single objective of the position of women in one sector in our country such as agriculture and to thank the minister who announced the amendments to the Budgetary System Act, because this strategy is a step by step, with the hope that perhaps the first step in the day of voting is already made, in this position of the woman, to change her position for the better, continue to work as we have started, with the hope that our male colleagues will be willing to help us now and in the future work of the Women's Parliamentary Network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18112	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18113	Dear fellow MPs, since my colleague Marija Obradovic called me, I would also like to personally say that in the previous days we have had intense consultations on the subject of amendments prepared by the Women's Parliamentary Network, to confirm this. It's really like that. I thank all the representatives of this network who have made great efforts to say that women should be equal participants in all jobs at the Serbian state level. I fully support their initiative. What is not possible at this point for the reasons explained by the finance minister we will solve in another way through what we have agreed, that in creating the support measure you will be a participant. You will be invited and everything we can do to support women's entrepreneurship and women in agriculture, we will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18114	The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18115	Madam President, the Honorable Minister of Agriculture, I thank you for the understanding you had for the Women's Parliamentary Network and its proposal. In the explanation that we have received, the reason why it is denied is that the conditions and the way to exercise the rights to incentives are regulated by the rules and precisely because of these regulations, which you will bring, you will only allow me to present some statistics on behalf of the Women's Parliamentary Network, which motivated us to propose such amendments. The "Sekuns" Development Initiative Group has published the results of its research in Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, which show that women are double marginalised as members of agricultural households. According to this data, 84% of women don't own land. Pension and disability insurance doesn't pay 93%, and 17% of women don't even have health insurance because they don't have their own money. More than 70% of women in the country have the status of an auxiliary member of the household. In the agricultural season 65% of women work longer than prescribed full-time without a day's rest. Women account for 51.3% of the total population of the Republic of Serbia, and according to the 2012 agricultural list, of the total number of owners and permanent employees of the holdings carrying out agricultural activity, 43% are women. However, among the owners of Serbia's landlocks, women account for only 17.3%. The position of women in the rural community has been completely disfigured, although women are the holders of a work organisation and a factor without which the rural community has no chance of survival. For this reason, I note that 86% of the village has a population decline, and only 12% of them have growth, 986 villages today have fewer than 100 inhabitants. There are nearly 4,600 villages in Serbia today, and each fourth or about 1,200 is on the way to disappearance. Villages are extinct and all potential needs to be used to stop these negative trends in the Serbian village. That's where women's resources should be used better. For these reasons, it is necessary to strengthen budgetary activities towards the population of women in rural areas, with a special emphasis on enhanced support for the development of female entrepreneurship. For this reason, I thank you both once again for your understanding and that you will respect this statistical data when you adopt the regulations in the following year. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18116	Thank you. The word is Dr. Boban Birmancevic. You know how many more seconds there are of the parliamentary group, you've decided to spend it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18117	I'd like to talk about the amendment very briefly. On my personal behalf and on behalf of my colleagues from the SNS, I would support it, indeed, for every commendation of the work of the Women's Parliamentary Network. When there's a will, there's a way. There will certainly be a way to achieve gender equality and what women from the parliamentary network have started and implemented in action. It's commendable to everyone and go ahead. Full SNS support...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18118	Thank you. The time of the parliamentary group has been spent. Thank you. The National MP Ljiljana Malušić submitted the amendment to article 7th of the 24th. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18119	Honored President, Honored Ministers, in Section 24, Section 7. The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, in Chapter 24 of the 0201 programme - the development of science and technology, the programme activity 0005, the support of the work of the Innovation Action Fund, the description in column 7, and the use of the attitudes of this appraisal will be carried out by a special act of the Government, and it is also said – the schedule and use of the means of this appropion will take place under a special act of the Government, taking into account the principles of gender equality. The aim of this amendment is to know, promote and encourage the innovative activities of women through start-up companies programmes, as well as companies of existing companies, which have so far been under-represented in fund programmes. Data show that more women are in natural and technical sciences, but that they are insufficient in business sectors based on innovative and information-communication technologies. It is precisely by increasing women's activities in these areas, through the Innovation Action Fund, that stimulates women's economic empowerment and that in sectors of greater added value. I would like to thank the Government, because in the budget preparation manual for 2015 and the projection for 2016 and 2017, it is recommended for budget users to define the birth indicators of impact, outcomes and results, where possible, which will also be insisted on in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18120	Thank you. The amendments were submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic to Sections 26 and 23. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th Amendment was submitted to article 7 by MP Vesna Marjanovic. The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18121	Dear Presidents, honourable members of the government, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I must say that during these few days, we have left out enough to talk about areas such as health, education, environmental protection, and we have not talked about the area of culture at all, perhaps because the minister in charge did not consider it necessary to be at this session even one minute. I'd like to move on to my amendment, which is quite detailed and since I don't have enough time, I'm going to focus on one of the specific questions that made this amendment a bit more specific. I would ask Minister Vujovic if he could pay attention, as I have certain questions to give him. My amendment referred to the fact that the 2015 Culture budget provides for 150 million dinars for the digitisation of cultural heritage. I felt that there was no need for this, because this process has already been started by many institutions and has been going on for years. In particular, it is noted that the funds allocated to digitisation in this way have been significantly reduced by all other activities. In the government's explanation of why my amendment was rejected, it is said that centralisation of the digitalisation of cultural heritage will bring seriousness to international institutions, including the Daria Erik consortium. Dear Mr. Vujovicu, since the Minister of Culture is not present, I ask you the following question – why has the digitalisation process moved from the Ministry of Science? When and where is a clear digitalisation plan presented and presented? When and where is the project being presented with the Daria Erik consortium? It is a special question for you – do you know, Mr Vujovicu, who is the national correspondent for Serbia to the Daria Erik consortium and will the national correspondent of this consortium be in charge of the availability of a million-and-a-half-euro fund? Cultural goods fail and disappear. So what happens if she doesn't protect herself first? Finally, just one more question, I know that my time is running out, and I would ask MPs not to laugh, if possible, why are national minorities left out as a position that has always existed in the culture budget? The ministry's explanation is that national minorities are classified as socially sensitive groups. Finally, why did public information with this year's 40 million reach 210 million dinars this year? I'd like the minister, if possible, to answer my questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18122	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18123	In the absence of the Minister of Culture, I wouldn't be willing to answer your questions. Please let me answer you in writing within a short period of time, in a few days. I will ask Mr. Tasovec to coordinate with all others in charge of the digitalisation program to provide a written answer that will answer all your questions. We'll look for a stenogram. Or, if you can, send us all the questions in writing, so we can answer you precisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18124	Here you go. You've got 10 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18125	I don't think I need to deliver any specific questions, but I will. So very important questions are very important and I ask you to pay attention to who is the national correspondent...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18126	The Democratic Party has wasted its time, total time. Thank you. To Article 7. Splitting the 27th amendment with a correction was submitted by MP Dragan Nikolic. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18127	Madam President, representatives of the Government, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted this amendment, although I am a member of the SNS, on behalf of all citizens of the city of Vranja. In 2012, the "Bora Stankovic" theatre in Vranja burned in a fire. The local self-government, along with donors, has managed to raise certain funds. We started building that theater. It's finished, so-called. The gray zone, two phases left, the power, water, sewers and equipment, which is very expensive. The theatre and the whole building are also needed by the town of Vranj and the entire Pcinj County, because other gatherings that are important for this community are held in addition to theatre performances. Given that Vranje City is not in a great financial situation, of course, because for the last 12 years someone has been destroying all the budgets, and the budget of Vranj City, therefore, we are unable to send and finance in full the construction of this theatre. It would be my request to the Ministry of Finance and to the entire government -- to single out 20 million and thus help build this theatre, which will then be handed over to use, both for the citizens of Vranja and for the citizens of Serbia. This request can also go through the budget, it can go through the member that I have proposed, but of course there is the possibility that through the current budget reserves it will allow the city of Vranje to create its own theater and that the tradition that exists there for about 100 years, that the theater can be revived, relived in that building and that the city of Vranje gets what it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18128	The word has a minister in the government, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18129	I would like to answer also briefly the question of Mrs Marjanovic and the question of a short-time speaker. I think I can say on behalf of Minister Tasovec and this Government that one of the intentions is very important, which we have for the next period, that when the funds are already limited, we have to be limited, that we have to make serious priorities of jobs, that we can no longer do as we did for decades, not just in the past few years, but especially in the previous few years, that we agree to give each and every project a little bit more and then we don't finish anything, or that the funds stay unengaged and don't give the result much longer than we actually completed one project and then move on to the next. Minister Tasovac considers and has information that the digitisation of heritage will make serious savings in relation to decentralised digitisation efforts, which are already being managed individually and with significantly higher resources, in total, and in the longer term, than will be the programme he has now set up, i.e. for which this budget stands. There are many unsatisfactory needs in culture. It is, unfortunately, the area that, in some ways, is the easiest place to deny funds. It is very important that some projects are finally being completed in this area and this is foreseen by the budget this year. I think it's one tendency to understand, and we just need to talk on the longer terms of what it is this year, what it is next and what, on the one hand, the results, and on the other hand, the financial effects have on the whole scene of Serbia's culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18130	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18131	I thank you, Mr. Minister, or the chairman. It's late. Since you've been mixing the stakes, so can I. Thank you, Madam Minister. In principle, I agree with what you said, but my questions refer to the following – who will carry out this project and who is the national co-responsor of Daria Erik's consortium? I've heard that I'm going to get a later question, but I'd like that question and the answer not to be forgotten. Secondly, when digitisation is at stake, according to the ministry, only 0.05% is digitized, since it is known that no institution in the world digitises its funds in general. How many years of work to digitise the National Library of Serbia has been annulled. So I'm not convinced that centralization is something that will bring savings, but we'll see. I'll insist on the questions I've asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18132	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic to Sections 28 and 23.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With this amendment, I suggested that the level of subsidies in agriculture be returned to some previous level. So we have a situation that in the last two years subsidies and direct incentives in agriculture are constantly decreasing. Agriculture remains only a developmental opportunity in election campaigns, after which it is not taken into account. Here we agreed with our colleagues that Serbian villages are very threatened, that the white plague is in full swing and it is simply unacceptable for our subsidies in agriculture to be reduced this much. We found funds to increase direct incentives in agriculture in the reduction of the amount for the Transition Fund, because with the budget rebalance for 2014 the transition fund is reduced to 2.8 billion dinars and our proposal is to keep it at that level and next year. We've heard here several times that this government is working successfully, so we don't think there's gonna be so much layoff and that that amount of funds in the Transition Fund will be too much. On the other hand, it is necessary to prepare our farmers for market liberalisation because we are in danger of losing livestock production, milk production and other agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18134	Thank you, Mr. Senic. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS will not vote for this amendment because the story of subsidies in agriculture is more political, but essential. So far, we have had the situation that those who have destroyed Serbian agricultural combinations, to get to state land in a cheap way, are paying rent, and then for the same value of the lease from the Republika Srpska budget, the money is returned to them. It will no longer be given for subsidies in agriculture or Miskovic, or similar to him. With these subsidies we give, and we eliminate the rich, we even them on the market. This is why there are subsidies in agriculture. And so far, it's happened that the richest have had the most revenue from the subsidy. We didn't have much against it either, but we didn't see the financial effect of these subsidies. Therefore, the amount is reduced and subsidies will be identified for those most difficult to produce agricultural reproduction in one season. This way, if it remained as usual, the most useful would be those with the most land, the most money, the easiest to invest, and for them, due to modern mechanisms, agricultural production is the most profitable. It's the state that can't pay, it won't pay. We want the most numerous, most represented sector in agriculture, and these are small agricultural holdings. With these subsidies to even the market and make their product competitive. For these reasons, we will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18136	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18137	This is a rare example for you to see that this is one simple, pure demagogy trying to get something, but I'm not the safest thing to do. So, we should be restructured companies, we should have all these companies where we're trying to deal with surplus labour without leaving people out on the street, simply leaving them in the state they've been found and everything is what it's been all these years. That people do not work, that there is no hope, that nothing is helped, and then we will allegedly give it to the village or through subsidies, just like MP Arsic said. We're solving a serious problem and this problem should have been solved long before this government. Unfortunately not. And yes, this government is much more successful on these issues than anything before. I'm sorry about who stopped the previous governments from finding a strategic partner, say FAP. Either to solve the problem of Jelizara Smederevo, or to solve the problem on October 14th and who knows how many other companies someone is interested in. Make it one single company of 178 or 502, that's still 100% more than the previous governments have solved this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18138	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The word has a minister in the government, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18139	Thank you. I just want to repeat once again what I've been saying several times in the last few days. The amount of subsidies in agriculture has been reduced by the 2015 budget, but this reduction is due to a decision to subsidise agricultural areas up to 20 hectares in the coming year. Not like so far, up to 100 acres. Therefore, because of the need to use the agrarian budget rationally, due to the fact that up to the present enormous allocation of funds for direct promotion of war production, we have had a large separation and a small effect, and because of the need to protect small and medium-sized agricultural producers, we have proposed this measure, 94.4% of all registered agricultural holdings which are otherwise users of plant-based incentives are completely protected and this does not touch them. This measure touches those 5% but only in the part relating to plant production. For these large, for them 5%, all other means of incentives in the agrarian are available. I believe that they will also be the first to start using the IPAR programme, which you know very well that we are intensively preparing, they are as large and most ready to withdraw one part of the 175m-euro funds provided for in this fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18140	Thank you. Mr. Senic, you're in for it? (Alexander Senic, from the place: Replica. Who mentioned you? (Alexander Senic, from the scene: I was misread. I estimate, unfortunately, yours, I estimate that you are not misread because no one has commented on your presentation. (Alexander Senic, from the scene: No, they answered because Mike was talking.) Mr. Markovic, you? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: By amendment. After the amendment? How can you? Well, you don't have time anymore, your MP group no longer has time. Thank you. The amendments were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic to section 7th and 47th. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, submitted to section 7 and 49 of the amendment. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18141	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers. My amendment refers to the fact that this budget provides that your government will fire around 27,000 people next year. And it says, what doesn't say, we just need to see. However, some consequences follow. This amendment provides for the obligations of the Agency for the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. And they're planned at the level of old age. The next year won't be one of the previous years, because there's no one here who remembers a government made such a tsunami, I'd say in firing employees. Of course, layoffs have been so far since this government came, or this coalition to power, but this is planned employment. So, you've predicted only 7,578 million to settle work disputes on these issues. That's not enough gentlemen, you'll have to do rebalancing, like this year, very often. We have suggested that this sum rises by about four billion, so to 11,221 million, so that you can cover these disputes, i.e. the costs of these disputes. Because I guess, what's in the announcements, it's going to be party layoffs like they've been party receipts so far. None of this government, when it comes to depoliticization, we haven't seen it, and therefore I ask you to be careful and predict enough funds in this position.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18142	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18143	Well, unfortunately, we had so much party employment from 2008 to 2012, it was unprecedented. People from abroad were surprised and came to Serbia to see only that, they didn't believe what it says in statistics. Unfortunately, Mr. Vesenovicu, all of your governments, your various governments from 2000 to 2000, have led to the release of only 400,000 workers from 2008 to 2012. Now, at that time, your party, your former party, I don't know which one, has hired so much party staff that I don't think it's possible to find it now, let alone fire it. These people were mostly paid, they didn't make much of a contribution to Serbia's economy, because we know what condition we found it in, they were worth the pay. They liked to be at the cashier's, to receive the pay, there they were first. I've cited many examples and I don't find it hard to make them go on, and it wasn't tsunamis, it was cataclysm. It was the destruction of Serbia. That's how these governments of yours, different governments, party employment, you've given a new definition. Now that you look at the dictionaries, encyclopaedias and wikipedias, there's a whole new definition – party employment as you set it up. And this government doesn't fire people, this government is trying to preserve jobs. This is the eighth month in a row, as unemployment decreases in Serbia. Your governments couldn't even dream of it, couldn't put it together for eight days, to reduce unemployment, and we've been doing it for eight months. Now, that's responsible behavior, it's a domestic policy, it's a policy run by both the SNS and its coalition partners and the president of this government, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18144	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18145	The Agency for Peaceful Dispute Resolution finally started to do its job. So far she hasn't done her job, not because there weren't any strikes, the strikes are all you want, but she's not doing her job, and now she's doing it. I have to admit, she's very successful and I'm glad you're interested in her. Thank you for that interest. You're absolutely right. Yeah, since our depolitanization, there's been nothing. You're right, we didn't fire your party staff either. We didn't fire people by party membership. We didn't fire people, we didn't even change most of our assistants. So, you're absolutely right. We haven't dealt with politics in our ministries at all, so that's not even depoliticalizing thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18146	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Based on the replica, because it's the name and last name?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18147	Yeah, by the replica. Dear Minister Stefanovic, those tourists who were coming, they weren't tourists, they were foreign investors. If you've met people who speak foreign languages, they've been foreign investors who, right after you came to power, have disappeared and you know that foreign investments are multiple, multiple, or could be said to be almost gone. The fact that you're opening those plants and yesterday's melting plant, the foundations are laid during what you say is the former government, although your government is former, and our government is ancient history. Right? So, Mr. Stefanovic, the bridge you opened the other day, and some people were coming to lay a cornerstone from abroad, these were foreigners also during our government. When it comes to unemployment, I hope we cleared that up the other day. Unemployment hasn't fallen. Employment hasn't increased. You only changed the method by whom and those who work on the street, sell on cardboard boxes, put it into employees. It's just a matter of methods. Tell me, please, who did you hire? The other day, you listed several factories that were also built for our time or were laid rock foundations. So, Mr. Stefanovic, Mr. Vulin, there's nothing to brag about. We hope it gets better next year. We'd like, we'd really like 10,000 people, who left Northern Backa this year, not 20,000 next year, and then we won't have anything to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18148	Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18149	Fortunately for Serbian citizens, you are a long time ago, and that's where I agree. That's where we totally agree. What you said, in one more thing, we agree, your governments and those people from your governments, including those who have been ruling for the 14th year of the province, have laid many cornerstones, but have forgotten to pay. They did not like to pay, leaving those debts to some more responsible and capable people who today have to pay those debts, who are today finishing these factories and who are hiring people. In addition to taking pictures that were on various televisions, they were photographed as they allegedly opened something, of which Serbian citizens saw nothing, absolutely nothing. As far as tourists are concerned, these were your tourists as they came here, saw what was happening in Serbia and the first plane they saw fleeing with the main no matter what. As far as these stories are concerned, absolutely nothing has changed in statistics at the time when we were the opposition and in this period when we were in power. But this is eight months in a row for unemployment to fall, and I'll tell you why. Because of Frezenius medically, in Vrsac, because of the "PKC Wiring" system in Smederev, because of the "Fles Calcedonia" in Apatin and "Adrian Tex" in Ruma, "Leoni Wiring System" in Doljevac, "Geoxa" in Vranja, "Everesta" in Ruma and Balkan BIBL in Jagodina and "Svarovski" in Subotica and "Henkel" in Kruševec and "Jinsa" in Leskovec. Did you and Jinsi bring maybe to Krupanj and Leskovac? You didn't do that, did you? Did your government bring you maybe? Well, you haven't seen these people. Do you know what these people are called? Do you know the name of one of them? Do you know the name of one of those people? You don't know because you've never seen them, you've never been in those plants, and these are serious companies, companies that hire these people, who work today...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18150	Mr. Markovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18151	... and the whole government is involved in creating a basis for these people to come and work in Serbia. Not them, Mr. Becic, we're lucky if they don't call us what they called us the other day. They're not interested in everything else, and we're interested in working, opening jobs and being people who want to be responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18152	Thank you. Although you, Mr. Svedinović, touched me in a painful wound, as I also got into the Vrbas General Hospital, the President of the Vojvodina Government loaded the spoon into the buffer, the truck went out on one side, and re-loaded it, they put the board on – the end of the hospital's wings in 2012, and at the end of that table, there was nothing else. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I was the first to seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Djurisic, Mr. Djukanovic before you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to be presented to Mr. Veseinovic. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: He could not ask if Mr Stefanovic spoke. I'm afraid that's not your call. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18153	The Honorable Chairman, I am advertising the violation of article 107, and you were obliged to react because of the violation of dignity and parliament here, because from here we hear incredible sentences – you hired those who sell on cardboard boxes. Is that someone here insulting people? Well, those people on the cardboard boxes are exactly because their governments led them to cardboard boxes. You had to react, no one should insult the people like that and insult the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18154	The word is Mr. Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18155	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, you have re-injured Article 100. - President of the National Assembly, when chaired by the National Assembly, if he wishes to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. So your impressions and your memoirs can't be shared with us, but nice to come down here, to sign up for a word, so if the chairman wants to give you a word, then you can get involved. But since your parliamentary group is out of time, you can no longer speak, then you abuse the Rules of Procedure and speak from that place things that are not suitable for the chairman of the National Assembly. Ask Mr. Stefanovic, since I see you asking him if you can do anything or not, whether I'm right or wrong, since he's been President of the Assembly for two years, so he probably knows this Rules of Procedure well enough to tell you whether I'm right or wrong. Whether I'm right or not all citizens can understand it after I've read the article 100 and it's very clear. So, if you have something to say, come down here, pick up, but unfortunately you won't be able to get a word because your MP group's time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18156	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. That will be decided by the National Assembly on Vote Day. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18157	You know, more inspection work in my ministry hired people than governments before us. So 14,644 people have been employed based on a solution to labour inspection over the past six months. This is hardly commendable to some government in 2008. You did start building a bridge, but we didn't just finish it, we paid for it. You'll admit that doesn't say very well about those who started it, but it speaks best of those who ended it. Speaking of tourists, you know how good a part of your so-called investors has acted as tourists. They come here as a souvenir to take millions in subsidies and some factory and leave us unemployed. Yeah, that's what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18158	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18159	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: On what basis? ) This amendment is not acceptable for the Serbian Progressive Party, in time... Marko Djurisic, from the scene: On what basis? You don't have time. You don't have one minute. I was just watching. Don't do that. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Don't do that. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18160	Mr. Djurishic, even though one of the MPs asked me not to have any more smiles on his face, let me give you a heads-up. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Please, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, let me give you an explanation. You may not need to hurt the Rules of Procedure if I give you a notice. I said earlier that the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group is running out of time. And that's true. But the time of the mandated representative or, in this case, the president of the parliamentary group... . (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Here sits Mr Arsic and Mr Arsic must leave the room. Please allow me, Mr. Djurishic. But the president of a parliamentary group or an authorised representative has 15 minutes, because he hasn't used... Mr. Veseinovic, all the time Mr. Arsic has used as an authorised representative has been removed from the MP's group's time. That's why they're wasting their time. But they wisely left their 15 minutes, as an authorised representative and as president of the parliamentary group in the end, that they could answer with argument to yours. So, Mr. Djurishic, are you satisfied now? The word is Mr. Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18161	Mr. Chairman, thank you for resetting the time, I would suggest that you charge this time anyway and include this hysteria that we've been exposed to all day and giving it the right to have a word or not, because this time costs the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Because of that hysteria, that hysteria really has to stop. This amendment is not acceptable to the SNS. It's not acceptable for many reasons, and one reason is the explanation we've heard. We've heard about many bridges, but somehow it remains in my ears the price of a bridge in Vienna where the former president of the state, Mr. Boris Tadic, said - the price of the bridge is 30, but it looks like we'll pay it 100m euros. I don't know how much she's paid. You know, these bridges that are built from 30 million to 100 million, in no time does that difference in price. Today we were present for the hundredth time making a connection between the former regime, making a link between the former regime and the property of Miroslav Miskovic. You know, MPs of the former regime get up and say, "You know what investments we've made, and the only investment was the sale of Miskovic's assets, Delese." It's great if Miskovic's property is a sign of equality with the former regime, it's okay, you publicly admit it, what all citizens of the Republic of Serbia know. In the end, somehow, as someone who's using common sense, I can't explain it to myself, so many foreign investment that you're calling for, and 400,000 people are out of a job. Well, stop, foreign investments, new factories, new jobs, unemployment cuts, and you in four years from 13 to 26% unemployment. What are foreign investments, which are at all investments in which no one works, but people have lost their jobs. Except of course Miskovic is equal to the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18162	Thank you, Mr. Granny. You've spent two minutes and four seconds of your time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has been broken by the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18163	Dear Chairman, the previous speaker said we were hysterical. I think that's the injured article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18164	Please repeat, I didn't hear well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18165	That we're hysterical, because he's been listening to hysterical discussions all day. I think that's the injured article 107. – the dignity of the National Assembly and that you are obliged to protect that dignity and that at the time those words were spoken, you had to interrupt Mr Babic, ask him not to use such words, and if he continues to use such words, then apply those same provisions to the Rules of Procedure that you applied to other MPs two days ago. Please apply the Rules of Procedure to everyone. I don't know what time this is in this mandate that I'm getting up and all I'm asking is that you respect this Rules of Procedure and that you treat everyone the same way. The Rules of Procedure here apply to all participants in the discussion. Then these participants in the discussion could know that the current macroeconomic developments made by the Ministry of Finance for December 2014 said the reduction in unemployment rate was the result of black labour. That's what it says on this paper, it's the result of the work on black. If we're going to talk about the investments that are in Serbia and who brought them in, let's talk here, here's the biggest exporters in Serbia "Fiat" cars... (Marko Djurisic, speak from the post and continue: Please let me finish.) [[Disabled microphone.]] Please let me finish because this isn't any hysteria. Please turn on my microphone and let me finish. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18166	Please, what you're saying right now has something to do with me breaking the Rules of Procedure? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: It has ties, I want to show that this is not hysteria, very argumentative, but that it has to do with what the Serbian government is. And if there's no hysteria here, so let me finish. I can't let you use time. You've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I cannot allow you to use it for replication. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr Bozovic and all the others you have reported to the Rules of Procedure, I will not allow the use of damage to the Rules of Procedure to be used. The moment you start using that for a replica, you'll be turned off by a microphone. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Mr. Chairman, you did not answer me. ( b) Do you want the congregation to declare itself? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You have not answered anything about the Rules of Procedure. Here, let me tell you, I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes, I do. I thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18167	Can you give me back my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18168	It's not a problem. I'll count the time if there's a need. I'm not sure you'll be able to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18169	Mr. Becic, you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the 106th in an act that says that no interference of the speaker is allowed in any way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. That's what article 106 says. You threatened the freedom of speech to the previous speaker, Mr. Mark Djurisic, because you did not allow him to use his two minutes to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18170	Mr. Bozovic, I said earlier that I would not allow you to use this time as replicas. I didn't interrupt Mr. Djurisic in his speech. I interrupted his report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Balsa Bozovic, from the place: It is not a replica, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.]] The moment I feel that someone is misappropriating reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have the right as chairman to interrupt it and not allow myself to abuse the Rules of Procedure any more, as is yours now. Here's to Mr. Babic's injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18171	Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. You know, I wish this number of rules of procedure had been raised two days ago when you were called cattle here. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Is this now a violation of the Rules of Procedure? I'd like to have this same number of rules of procedure and this kind of pitching and defending who you are, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18172	Please, let me at least listen to part of it. Is this a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18173	I would like Mr. Chairman to have the same ones who brought this one into the National Assembly and let him, that all of us, to call the citizens of the Republic of Serbia cattle, that at least that's what they did, raised the Rules of Procedure and condemned you. No, they didn't clap, they were looking forward, they threatened more. It's a way of political struggle. It's hysteria. It's hysteria, and thank God in SNS has professional people in all areas and I am grateful to them because they helped me to define that hysteria is a medical name when someone can't control their impulsive reactions and their behavior. And someone can't control it, they saw it last night, they saw it two nights ago, they saw it, and now that someone else's talking, there's reactions, there's right there, there's a paper lift, there's some threats right there, there's an immediate entry into the word. What is an uncontrollable impulsive reaction, what is it other than hysteria? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: What is this, Mr. Becic? Is such an insult to anyone? No, it only offends those who in their political vocabulary have hatred translated into that someone invited you, called you "stock", and no one has responded here. I haven't seen any Rules of Procedure, but I've seen and heard a threat and I've heard applause.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18174	I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. As for this justice and the transfer of that sentence from me to all the messengers of the peoples, I said it today that I am sorry, that I wish it were left and that sentence was spoken only to me, and not to all the messengers of the people, but it is again to the soul of him who uttered it. Would you like Mr. Granny to make a statement? (No) The word has a folk MP, Neđo Jovanovic, Mrs Comic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18175	I must ask you, Mr. Chairman, to use the professional assistance of your associates and services, because the violation of the Rules of Procedures you have applied, and I have no doubt that you know, by allowing the violation of both article 104 and article 107 to imply that you have either not received a good suggestion about how the MP is allowed to address another MP or have disobeyed the professional suggestion of the service. Your will to allow the MP to abuse the right to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to repeat insults at the expense of other MPs, giving them a diagnosis, implies only two things, or the one I have stated, since I have no doubt that the Rules of Procedure know well and that it is simply a pleasure to break this way or you have a strategy to produce completely unnecessary incidents in the presidency. I ask you to give up on one and the other strategy while holding the session, I ask you most nicely, because no MP is obliged to suffer insult, diagnosis, mockery and diagnosis of behaviour or psychological and mental state without your intervention. It's a disgrace to our congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18176	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mrs. Komic, at the same time there were several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and only one on this side. Here he tried to replicate himself, sir, as I understood the speaker who spoke to this side not directly to anyone, but to explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure which he thought I had done and addressed only me as chairman. For this reason, I have allowed it to end until the end, and the other MPs have tried to use the violation of the Rules of Procedure for the replica of another national MP. For this reason, I've allowed the previous speaker to end the injury he thinks has been done, the explanation of the injury he thinks has been done. Also, every time one of the MPs who reports for the violation of the Rules of Procedure addresses me directly and explains why he thinks I hurt the Rules of Procedure, I will not interrupt him. The moment he tries to hurt the Rules of Procedure, he takes advantage of the replica of another MP or member of the Government, I will not allow it. Do you want Mrs. Comic to plead? (No) Thank you. Mr. Markovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mr. Markovic, I didn't see Mrs. Barisic come forward before you were injured by the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18177	I apologize, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I'd just like to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't know which member to choose. Here, as a psychiatrist, I'd just like to give that definition of hysteria...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18178	Mrs. Barisic, you must specify which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18179	I'm sorry, let me, that business is being broken all the time, but hysteria and that dissatisfaction with unfulfilled wishes, I would beg my colleague... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18180	Mrs. Barisic, I can't let you end up like that. (Dragana Barisic, from place: Here, Article 105.) (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What is this, you are not normal? Mr. Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18181	Dear Chairman, I point out the violation of Rule 107, and I want to point to your repeated failures, not only in this session, but also in the others. If you can...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18182	Mr. Markovic, if you know the Rules of Procedure, you can point to the injury that has now occurred at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18183	Yes, it's just a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18184	Are you saying that I hurt the Rules of Procedure because I didn't allow myself to be referred to by a member of the Rules of Procedure as a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18185	No, I'm just saying that by interrupting our discussions... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18186	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18187	I thank the chairman. I am convinced that all MPs want to go from breach of the Rules of Procedure to amendments again, in order to shorten the time until the start of the vote. That is why I will do so, in connection with the last amendment, which explains that the budget, namely that some seven million will be defined in the budget on behalf of the resolution of various disputes. It was probably an allusion to Minister Vulin or the entire government. From the opposition's point of view, the seven million, no doubt represents a small amount, and from the point of view, the position is probably another interpretation. However, for the government as well as for us in the SPS parliamentary group, one fundamental question is how much we will have extorted budget rebalances so that we can compensate for all the damage done to the judges that were unreelected in 2010. How much we're going to have to have unsupervised budget rebalances to compensate for the total damage caused by members of the VSS, precisely by experimenting which resulted in a return to the work of all those judges who were not re-elected. That's the essential question. I'd only ask for a little silence, if Mr. Becic can, because these are not insignificant facts at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18188	I ask the MPs to listen to Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18189	These are also what significant facts are about budget projections. What the government did was manage to rationalise in the judiciary as well. Instead of the traveling judges who visited the business unit, or judicial unit to the judicial unit, crossing daily and over 100-150 kilometers, we have now created a different structure where we have avoided these costs. What seems very important to me is the fact that the government recognized that the judiciary must bear the burden of rationalization and that is correct. The SPS parliamentary group unreservedly supports the prime minister's view that the situation in the judiciary is not good and it is not good and citizens feel the best feeling, but it is also important that the definition of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget enables the judiciary to function. Today, we witnessed debt rebalances. What the SPS parliamentary group sees as significant is that, and you, Mr Vujovic, and I hope that Mr Stefanovic and Vulin, too, can pass on to Minister Selakovic, is the fact that, in addition to what the government has contributed to rationalising the costs involved and to the judiciary as part of a state apparatus that must bear the same burdens, as well as the whole of the state apparatus, it is the fact that we do not forget that in the overall structure of costs, in the whole of that structure of rationalisation must be provided that the level of money needed for the education of judges, for their professional training, that we do not happen to have one, two, maximum three judges per court, because there are no more options, financial opportunities do not allow it, it is something that implies imperative that the Serbian judiciary is truly an elite judiciary. I am speaking to you in this regard from the point of view of the man who is part of the judiciary in the profession he deals with, and how he knows about the situation in the judiciary, and I am convinced that in this direction the government will do everything to make the judiciary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18190	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18191	Thank you, Your Honor. The essence of the amendment I submitted to Article 8 is that the basis for the payment and salary accounts for civil servants is raised by 10%. What you've reduced by October's law, I believe we can return in 2015. What's the reason for my optimism? The reason is what I was saying when we talked about VAT revenues. You yourself have said here several times today that VAT in this year will be charged at 410 billion dinars, so about 11 billion more than expected in the 2015 budget. I just can't believe the VAT charge in 2015 is going to be less than that amount. It is certain that it will be higher than the amount charged in 2014 because the main reason we heard about the rebalancing is why the income planned by VAT - flood is reduced. I really believe that floods in that magnitude won't happen again. We heard it was once in 1,000 years. So we're calmer about the flood for 1,000 years, and I hope some other accident besides this government won't wait for us next year. In that sense... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: What is this now? ) By saving, by collecting VAT in the larger amount, the amount planned to be saved in the budget will be compensated... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: What is this now? What is this, hysteria? What an accident from this government? How come you're not embarrassed, Đurisic? So you stole, you returned what you stole, and we'll have it for the wages. Please, can you calm down the MP?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18192	Mr. Granny, please. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: You can't. He can't while you're calling in that way and government and anyone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18193	Can you give him at least one warning? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Shame on you.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18194	Mr. Granny, please, you'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18195	What kind of words does he use here now? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Shame on you.) Shame on you. What are they like? Is this threat perhaps, Mr. Chairman? In what way does a fellow apostle address another apostle? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: In what way is the government marked as an accident? What is that, a curse? Is that Djurishic's curse? You gave me a warning for that. You gave me a warning for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18196	Please, all MPs, there's noise in the hall, you're making noise, I can't hear the speaker and believe that the last few sentences of Mr. Djurisic I haven't heard because there's a lot of noise in the hall. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Did you hear Babic? Mr. Markovic, please sit down and don't throw away. You do it all the time. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: he said we were thieves. Mr. Markovic, sit down, don't throw away, I'll give you a warning. Mr. Djurishic, please continue, I haven't heard your last few sentences because there's noise in the O.R., but if you abuse the Rules of Procedure, if you don't talk about your amendment, don't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18197	Mr. Chairman, I talk about the amendment all the time, all the time talking about the funds...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18198	I ask once more of the MPs to be quiet so that we can act as chairman if someone violates the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18199	I am talking about that the funds for, which are planned, to be saved in the budget from the cuts in salaries and pensions will be, that it will be because VAT will be charged to a greater extent than planned and that it is therefore necessary to accept this amendment to Article 3 and this amendment to Article 8 so that citizens of Serbia, employees of the public sector whose salaries are reduced by 10% would no longer suffer damage and all the time I am talking about it and I don't understand the reaction on the other hand and this kind of anxiety. I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure, as you have warned me of the same words used by other colleagues, to do the same, because it is the only way you can say that you are leading this congregation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18200	I ask you, as messengers of the people, to allow and not to make noise in the hall, to enable us to listen to the speakers, to listen to the messengers who receive so that we may react. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18201	The lack of argument, the excess of hatred, we'll get to that hysteria again. You know, I've been through this National Assembly all sorts of things, and I've been through the curses that have been directed to us, but... (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Which member? ) Article 107 for those who do not hear, (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Which member? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18202	Mr. Markovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18203	Article 107, a dignity you did not respond to when those you brought into this congregation called us “stoms. ” You didn't react then. You didn't hear, you applauded, and you agreed with it, but someone, and it's known that in Serbia when your neighbor gets lost, it's an accident when something terrible happens... (Janko Veselinović, from the city: What is the injury? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18204	Mr. Veselinovic, if you allow me to listen to the end, then I will see what the injury is in. Allow me, don't throw all the time. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Why didn't you let me go to the end? How could I not let go, did you speak for two minutes? (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: Why didn't you listen to me, you interrupted me in half? It's not worth it, Mr. Djurishic. It's really not worth replicating with.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18205	Mr. Becic, I'm gonna go back to that medical thing, when someone can't control impulse reactions, look, please, who can't control impulse reactions. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: This is an insult. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18206	Mr. Djurisic, if someone from the scene is doing what you're doing right now... (Marco Djurisic, from the post: As Mr. Babic just did. ) Mr. Babic has been warned, and I am not warning you not to throw away any more. Please don't make me strictly respect the Rules of Procedure and make warnings. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Just the same for everyone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18207	Mr. Bečić, if this government is what's so proud of the rush I guess that the shadow of Mr. Zivkovic calling you "stokom", I guess it's shadowed even more to go further into all these things, then what's been going on in Serbia for 12 years, what's been going on in Vojvodina for 14 years, not that it's an accident, it's an epidemic, it's annihilation, it's the break-up of our society, the growing jobs, the break-up of businesses through privatisation, the robbery through development banks, through various banks, through companies that they've ruined, through the country they've destroyed, through all of us that they've ruined and reposses. It is little that he wanted Mr. Djurisic to darken Mr. Zivkovic by calling us "stokom". It's a little bit what he said, and it's even less what happened to us under his authority and those parties he was in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18208	Thank you, Mr. Babic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure because I couldn't hear the speech of the previous speaker because of the noise in the O.R. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18209	You know, the biggest accident in this country was the robbery privatisation led from 2000 to 2012 and of course there is certainly no blame for this government and the guilt of this assembly majority, but let's talk a little bit about the amendment itself, let's say something about it. You know, it doesn't make any sense to play around with this demagogy all the time and talk -- there are some people who won't raise their wages, and there's as much money as you want. Well, just to print it, there's no other way. Salaries will be increased as soon as 7% of GDP is not exceeded and pensions do not exceed 11% of GDP. As long as we work, we'll make as much money as we can. We won't be in charge of salaries and pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18210	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. The draft budget law for 2015 and, Your Honor, Mr Vujovic, I think this is a chance to adopt another amendment. Please pay special attention now, because there seems to be no argument that this amendment is not adopted. We have submitted this amendment, bearing in mind, in particular, plan 98. The Constitution of Serbia, Mr Vujovicu, who treats the National Assembly, is the position of the National Assembly and says the National Assembly is the most important institution in our country. Since it is most important, Mr Vujovic, I must return to the question of language again tonight, using the signs of interpretation. If somewhere we have to stick to the rules of language, it's here, Mr. Vujovic. We have noticed one inconsistencies, non-compliance with those rules in Article 8. Namely, Mr Vujovicu, in brackets in the third row of the first paragraph, after the bracket one is missing, and after the comma should go the word "determined". In the next paragraph in the same situation, after the bracket goes stuck and then word. In the last attitude, we also have parentheses, so stuck, so the same word is "determined", which means that the writer of this text is familiar with the rules, but probably by some mistake technically dropped to place the seal in point one. Dear gentlemen, Mr Vujovic, I think this should be the 12th Amendment of the New Party MPs and please tell me immediately whether you adopt the amendment
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18212	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18213	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18214	I find the Government's representative has accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18215	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, this amendment, as well as most of the amendments that we have submitted, is headed for the state to become a state, to become a tax administration, to have ministers do their jobs, and not to have Minister Kori Udovicki take over the work of the state's chief tax collector which, you will admit, is very, very unusual. It's been formed, namely, some tax commission. With this amendment, we are going towards not reducing the salary of prosecutors, judges, people who work in the judiciary. It'll probably end next year's lawyer strike and the courts will do it again. The judges are still working, they have their hands full, but for this salary, this is a humiliation of the judiciary, as you humiliated your lawyers by taking their bread from whom they live, and you will certainly have to correct it, but the dissuaded judges, trainees, prosecutors, such as the deprived pensioners, such as the deprived professors, such as those who suffer the harm of this government's poor work, the poor work of the ruling coalitions who vote for the laws, are not considering the consequences of the ordinary people. Tonight's debate and discussions of the ruling coalition have shown that they are not interested in citizens, that they are not interested in ordinary workers, that they are only interested in populistism, that they are only interested in voices and that this is how they treat this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18216	Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. You're right, Mr. Babic, but before that, the word has been made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18217	There you go. So, it is irresponsible and politically popular to cut salaries and pensions, but it is also responsible for politically unpopularly borrowing to raise salaries and pensions ahead of the elections. You know, there are even stenograms from the government's session where then Prime Minister Mr. Cvetkovic says – let's not do this, we'll fail the state if we raise salaries and pensions, and fellow ministers tell him – shut up, what you know, we have sources. This is what we're talking about about the consequences, and it's caused by an increase in non-resonal, non-economic salary and pension increases. In eight months, the government has not succeeded in borrowing Serbia, in performing a robbery privatisation, and still incurs a completely non-resonal and completely non-economic debt to salaries and pensions. It wasn't this government, and the one who did, it really is the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18218	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The word has a minister in the government, Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18219	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I think the government has shown through all its activities in the last few months with how serious it is and how many system solutions we make, the changes and the problems that exist. I will point out to the MP who mentioned earlier that Minister Kori took over the job of Serbia's first tax collector, it is simply not true. The IRS has its own director and someone in charge of these jobs. Minister Kori was appointed by the Serbian government to co-ordinator of the centre or body, which should be taken seriously into account with the grey economy. The grey economy is estimated to carry almost 30% in this country, which is a very large amount and it is not overnight and it is not in the previous few months. It's a long-standing problem that's been following us. To show you how we work systemically, and it's about some of the comments we just had, I just want to introduce to you what was presented to the public on Monday, which is a strategy for the development of businesses, companies in Serbia. So 99.8% of enterprises in Serbia belong to the small and medium-sized sectors. The entire development system for the next five years is based on six pillars. The first pillar is exactly what we're talking about, improving the business environment. There are hundreds of concrete plans, but one thing is just about fighting the gray economy. The second is directly related to this budget, improving access to funding sources. So cheaper loans, from farmers to entrepreneurs to large businesses. It depends directly on fiscal consolidation and everything we do in the next period whether we follow the rules or act as we have so far, to raise costs to a level that the state cannot service. The third part is the development of human resources, therefore, long-term education on all elements. The fourth is the competitiveness of our economy that has many elements that affect our export potential. The fifth is export policy, i.e. improving access to new markets. The sixth thing, regardless of what I was in the O.R., I heard and congratulated the MPs from different political parties from the position and opposition who joined in a joint performance towards demands for women's entrepreneurship to be recognized. I want to tell you that the sixth point of this development strategy is precisely recognising the specific measures and policies of female entrepreneurship, youth entrepreneurship and social entrepreneurship. So you're going to have a chance to see the measures that will then be implemented through both the budget and the various bodies of the government that we can talk about in that part. Finally, I would like to invite all of you MPs, schedule a special session of the National Assembly, it would be my pleasure to come with a team of people to talk if we need to talk all day about the development of the economy in Serbia, about these six points. For each of your remarks, we will be ready to talk and talk about each of your ideas, but with specific questions and concrete suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18220	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18221	Dear Chairman, I believe that you have injured Article 158 of Article 7 which reads - the legislator, or authorised representative of the motion, and in this case all ministers, has the right to speak up to two minutes in each amendment. We had one minister who spoke for a minute and 20 seconds, although he better not, and another minister who spoke for three minutes and 40 seconds. So they spoke together for five minutes, even though they had the right to speak for only two minutes. I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure. If they don't know the ministers, it's your duty to warn them that they have everyone together when they report two minutes after the amendment. I'm sorry, that's the way this hateful Rules of Procedure is. We still have a lot of amendments here to go over and talk, and don't waste our time, especially Minister Vulin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18222	I think, Mr. Djurisic, that you do not want to deny the citizens of Serbia to hear what the government has to say at this time and how they explain the positions of the budget. Mr. Sertic went a little too far, but he had a very interesting proposal and I let him explain it. Thank you. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18223	Thank you. You completely unconsciously violated article 107, injured, pardoned, Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, because you did not listen carefully to Minister Vulin when he explained to the MPs what was going on at the government's meetings between 2008 and 2012, for the simple reason that Minister Vulin or violated the Government Act, so he presented a top secret or deceived both the public and the citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18224	Mr. Bozovicu...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18225	Because he told the truth that he read something... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18226	Mr. Bozovic, let me explain why I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I don't think Mr. Vulin has made any secret. (Balša Bozovic, from town: From stenogram. Let me finish. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Stenogram is a secret. ) Because this information that Mr. Vulin repeated to us here several times then Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic told me himself, means that the information is not a secret if he told us all. Mr. Vulin, I think that's the only information he's repeated, which was spoken from Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's mouth many times. Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Balša Bozovic, from town:Yes. Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18227	Just an explanation about this. First, this point was not under the term "confidential", so it wasn't out, first of all, to define it. Secondly, I'm reporting on the amendment, which seems to me to explain one situation that I think is of public interest to people to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18228	Allow ministers, and they have the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18229	As for the specific situation, Mr. Vulin didn't even quote, he paraphrased what was said at the session, which is not in the domain of breaking anything. This was not the item of the agenda that was marked "confidential" and all this remains in the public information domain. The public has the right to know what is happening, and even now, even in part, media representatives are present at the beginning of the session, at the beginning of the debate on certain points of the government's agenda, when people can come in and record everything that happens at the government's session. There's no reason for that to be a secret. And this is what Mr. Cvetkovic really said, and I think it's perfectly logical to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18230	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Mr. Babic has a word, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18231	Thank you. A very interesting amendment, but I will try to explain to both you and the prosecutors, judges in Serbia, where their money is, where their money is. In the ninth session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when the SNS took responsibility for the exercise of power, we noticed one anomaly that lasted for years. The administrative board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposes two candidates each, two members from the ranks of lawyers and professors from the Faculty of Law at the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. That decision has been made. Four people were, I think, going to have a distinguished colleague, Pera Petrovic, and confirm that four people were elected to the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. Their work and membership fee was at the height of the parliamentary supplement, amounting to 30,000 dinars. Then, in a magical way, the parties to the amendment, so worried about judges, over prosecutors in Serbia, decided that the fee would no longer be just a parliamentary supplement. She set the fee to be six average salaries in Serbia. Six average salaries were honoring their people, their members who were lawyers or professors at law school, who were members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. Tens and tens of millions of dinars were thus poured into the private pockets of their members, their candidates, their friends.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18232	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18233	Just one more sentence, please. A very symptomatic thing happened at the moment when we reduced that compensation to a parliamentary supplement by a decision of the same Administrative Committee. At the same time, everyone resigned. So the only motive was finance. E, there are missing salaries for both judges and prosecutors and they have to ask the amendment's promoters, not the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18234	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18235	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, respected citizens, Mr Vujovicu, this amendment is in line with your fiscal consolidation policy for 2015, and we suggest that in 2015, the basis of the 2nd article's position, in the case of judges, is to pay 60% of the source 01 revenue from the budget, and 40% from the source 04 of its own revenue from the budget users of the court tax, belonging to the judicial authorities. In this way, we propose that a higher amount of the basis for judges be paid out of court fees, in order to encourage a more rational availability of funds by the courts themselves, but in order to achieve greater independence and, of course, more savings. I listened very carefully to you today and you said that your fiscal consolidation policy is based on four pillars. The first is the cost reduction. The second is the restructuring of public enterprises, then the reduction of public sector employees and below four, investments projected to be 5% growth. I want you to succeed, but please explain. In addition to banning employment in the public sector despite a definitive burden on the number of public sector employees, Minister Vulin boasts that he has recently hired 14,644 people. Is this at the expense of Serbia's state budget or private sector? One more thing, 27,000 people are scheduled to discharge the budget next year. Just tell me on what plan and will you implement it according to analysis and certain criteria or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18236	Time. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18237	See, this is when he brings the heat of the fight, so people don't know what they're talking about. The labour inspection hired, based on its solutions, 14,464 people in the private sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18238	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18239	Just for a little while. So, as explained, the Law on Court Taxes states that 40% of income belongs to courts. In addition to participating in the financing of judges' salaries, other costs are financed, so our professional services say, which would normally not be bad if we put the full amount on the judges' salaries, then there would be nothing left for the remaining costs. So this is just a matter of balancing resources and expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18240	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vujovicu, my amendment is similar to the amendment of my esteemed colleague. Namely, I only had a second basis for writing amendments. The 2015 budget law envisioned revenues from taxis of 14 billion and 300 million dinars, while the rebalance of the 2014 budget amounted to 15 billion and 800 million. Therefore, a reduction of revenue of about a billion and a half is foreseen, and I believe that this relationship given in the draft budget law in the budget of 3 - 70% and 30% of its own revenues is impossible. That is my personal opinion, and I therefore suggest that 80% of the budget revenue goes and 20% from its own sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18242	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I apologize, Minister Vujovic wanted a word before that. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18243	I also think this is a proposal that could be the subject of consideration. This reduction, which you've noticed well, is the result of the suspension of a real estate cab that is now going via VAT. Our evaluations are these - and this has been assessed by our professional services, as well as by the ministry, or courts - if there are problems in the realization, then we will have to correct it later. So no one can know exactly how much taxes they'll be. Based on the data we have, this is how we estimate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18244	Thank you, Minister. Ponicu - The People's MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18245	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, we have proposed an amendment to delete article 9. In our opinion, Article 9 provides that, contrary to Article 48(4). In this budget for 2015, the law on salaries of civil servants and deputies does not plan any amount for the payment of the allowance for the results of the work of the tenants in the public authorities. We are all witnessing that one of the main obstacles and foreign investors and, in general, everyone who wants to invest in Serbia is the slow and inefficient work of the state administration. And what exists in the Civil Service Payments Act is the possibility that four times a year, up to 50% of the salary, will be added as a reward for the above-average results. We believe that by abolishing, or by not providing any amount in the budget for this purpose, we will demote civil servants to be more efficient, to make our state administration more efficient and quality, which should result in more foreign investment, more employment, more jobs. This is all related in consequence, and therefore we think that this member should not be found in the budget, that it is necessary to provide funding, that those who carry the work of the state administration, who work best, are above average, who can make it more effective in the coming year and provide us with more investment, to adequately reward them. Without that, we won't have that result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18246	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18247	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, I felt it was very important that you leave space for other ministers, especially colleagues of Udovicki, in the context of their competences and functions, to set criteria that not only would they be able to do so in relation to the tenants, but also state officials who achieve good results and who, through their examples, give examples to others, simply overcome this problem that exists in Serbia, which will, in particular, be opened after the reduction of public sector wages. Given that the application of this law in every family in Serbia will take 10, 15, or 20,000 people and that people will be uninterested in work, I think it would be devastating to send a message simply with such restrictions that it is not worth the work, or to eliminate the possibility of progress in the profession and in the service. I am particularly inspired by the comments that were just before Mr Stefanovic and Mr Babic, and I have just wanted to risk their later comments and discussions on the examples of people who were in the previous period, this very period often mentioned, from 2008 to 2012, which have produced huge results and some of the companies mentioned here, such as companies in Leskovec or in Subotica, are the result of the great work of the president of municipalities and mayors and people who have been representatives of this country and who have contributed to the fact that today and the minister and his associates can call on these results and the companies that have been opened allegedly during this period, and in fact they are open thanks to the work of these people and they should therefore be rewarded, and particularly Mr Kocic, who was the mayor of Leskovec and who I have said that I know that he brought this company "Jins" to Leskov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18248	On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, respected Ministers and other guests from different ministries in the Serbian government, as we have set out, I think it is time to adopt this amendment of the New Party's MPs. Here, to inform Mr. Mijailovic while he was away, we adopted another one, so here's a chance to adopt our 13th amendment, this time on the draft budget law. The amendment concerns Article 9. I have one observation here and one question, Your Honor, Mr. Vujovic. It seems to us that behind the bracket, behind the comma, these words: "extremely in 2015" should not be standing there, because the assumption is that in the part of the budget, Chapter Three, the implementation of the budget, that this applies to 2015 and that we will probably when we adopt the 2016 budget there will be something about 2016. It seems too high to us. Mr. Vujovicu, I have a question for you. Mr. Vucic here two days ago, when he was, he said about the content of this article that it would be better already in 2015, but when I read this, honored gentlemen, I saw the decline of gross domestic product 0.5%, the decline of private consumption 3%, the decline of public consumption 7%, and, respected gentlemen, I wondered, Mr. Vujović, did Mr. Vukic read this text? Because I cannot conclude that it is possible to say that it will be better in 2015, when based on this data we cannot expect such economic growth that citizens can be better, respected gentlemen. Mr. Vujovicu, do you agree with my reading? Does that mean Mr. Wolf made a terrible mistake here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18250	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18251	So we here have one piece of text that relies on pretty conservative IMF estimates and we stick to that, because that's the deal between the government and the IMF. You have a situation that they really predicted a 0.5% drop in GDP in the next period, but I think you heard the prime minister say -- they don't count all those revenues below the line, as they don't count all of what will be the government's work on finding strategic partners for certain companies that I think we'll see in the next few months. We don't want to go out with notices on purpose. I expect from what the prime minister said and based on what the Ministry of Finance is, what we can say, some internal vision and slight growth next year, although it will not be easy to achieve, but I think we will still have a slight growth. So far, we don't have a drop in demand, which is good, because in fact, it turns out that leaving 61%) of pensions intact and the minimum, to say the minimum earnings, are the people who actually spend the most of their income on the settlement of regular bills, on the reconciliation of their debts and on the reconciliation of the purchase of domestic goods, which in fact maintains that demand so high. So it's written, you're right, but I think we can expect better results and we've given one worse one, expecting a better picture than next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18252	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18253	As far as the point is concerned, I think she's in the explanation, I don't want to read in the interest of time. As far as your amendment is concerned, I'd be willing to accept it if there wasn't a technical mistake. Because if we accept your amendment, then the text would read - brackets, bolted, stuck. That wouldn't be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18254	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Pavicevic, you have no basis for replication. Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18255	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, respected members of the government, Mr Vujovicu, as my predecessor, Mr Pavicevic, said, would have more faith in your fiscal consolidation if you were the prime minister of Serbia, but this is how we only hope. The reduction in demand from 7% leads to a strong doubt that 2015 will be the year in which anything will be better than it was in 2014. If we take to the comments of the Fiscal Council, then we predict what the IMF predicts, a decline of 0.5% of gross social product. However, the Fiscal Council has given yet another alarming fact that the decline could be between 0.5 and 1.5 unless one of the envisaged fiscal consolidation measures is implemented in 2015. That's what we said in the principle debate. This budget, respected citizens of Serbia, is like a barrel of gunpowder. Only one item is enough, not to be fulfilled, and this budget will have a dramatic impact on worse life in 2015 but this year. If the government does not move boldly, as promised in the pre-election campaign, reforms and the fight against the gray economy, against cigarette smuggling and tobacco, against tax evasion, nothing will be better in 2015. I end up with that, when it comes to tax collection, we've had opportunities to hear from individual ministers that it's an incredibly better tax charge in the last few months and that it's only expected in the following year. According to those analyses done by the Fiscal Council, tax payments are expected to exceed 0.4% of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18256	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18257	It is good that this country even exists after the privatisation we had from 2000 to 2012. It's a good thing there's even after all the borrowings, but borrowings where we don't know where that money went, since we've got nothing left. We didn't create new factories, we didn't create new jobs. We lost almost 300,000 jobs in the private sector from 2008 to 2012. These people need to be hired again. I know it's hard to listen to, but believe me, it's much harder to work on these people's employment. And that's what this government is doing, for eight months in a row, these private sector people are being strengthened, this private sector, we're hiring people, we're opening companies. We have compared to 2013, we gave very precise information. In December 2013, in the first 15 days, we had a VAT charge of 19 billion dinars. In December 2014, in the first 15 days, 22 billion, and we will repeat it as long as it takes. If that's 0.4%, then there's something wrong with math at all. But that's, of course, the thing we have to keep going. As for the fight against tobacco smuggling, I can say that together with the tax administration and with other partners working intensively to suppress tobacco smuggling and we warned everyone not to do so. We have a 20-ton seizure in the last 30 days, and I think that's a good thing. I don't know at this point to tell you how many boxing cigarettes, this is just a ton of tobacco in the list and cut tobacco we seized in different places. Most of all in the territory of Vojvodina, something in the Low District, something in the territory of the Vranje Police Administration. These are important measures that increase excise collection, stimulate the fight against the gray economy. We will continue to do so, but what I can tell you is that in relation to those governments that have been so wasteful towards the citizens of Serbia, who have destroyed their future, this government knows what it is doing and it ensures that people in Serbia have something to hope for, there's something to look forward to.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18258	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Branka Karavidic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18259	Thank you, Your Honor. Ministers, I must admit that I do not understand the reason for the refusal of this amendment, which is that the proposed solution was given in the draft law more fully than the resolution of the amendment. We have predicted one very important thing that this law does not provide. Article 10 for those who have not read it speaks about the fact that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is controlling the implementation of the plan to streamline the number of employees and persons employed by public funds users brought by the competent authority with the exception of public undertakings, their subsidiaries and other companies that are users of public funds. We have asked for this to be deleted and the rationalisation plan must apply to everything and be implemented in every public enterprise, not only in state bodies, but in every public enterprise, their dependent societies and other companies, the users of the budget. We then predicted that point 3 would be added at the end, which gives the minister the right to suspend the transfer of funds on the basis of subsidies until the recipient of the subsidy implemented a rationalisation plan. I think this is a key thing to implement the reforms the government announced in 2015. When we adopted the rebalancing two months ago and the reduction in wages and pensions, it was said that this was the first step, that the next step was the rationalisation in public enterprises, and now we see that they are exempt from the plan of rationalisation and that no one from the government will take care of whether rationalisation is being carried out in public enterprises, will the number of employees be reduced in any way? No minister will be in charge of it under this law. I can't understand why this amendment is rejected, and I can't understand the explanation that stands.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18260	The word has a minister in the government, Zeljko Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18261	I have to admit, I'm a little confused by the comments of some MPs, and I'd like an explanation for that. In some of your speeches, you criticise the government that it is too reformal, as it plans and lays down and rationalise costs and reduces all other rights. When a next member comes, then you attack the government why it has not done more, deeper reforms, etc. In some parts you boast about the investments you have made, and then you ask us to take down positions, because we have obligations under these same investments and to transfer funds from positions belonging to the Ministry of Economy for Incentives to Agricultural Development, etc. It is not about whether or not to transfer and add funds to agriculture. It is about how we can use what we can wisely, within all positions and in total available budgets. Let's just know in which direction you're going, whether you support reforms or you're against reforms, and not depending on the members and what's written in it, one moment you're in favour of reform, and another moment you're against it. As for the reform of public enterprises, I have spoken several times and I will repeat, it is not an imperative number of employees of enterprises. It's imperative to make methods how we measure the effect, what people who work in businesses are going to do, how their results are going to be measurable, and then we're going to define through those criteria exactly what you're looking for, and we've talked about it a few times in this room. When we have clear criteria on the basis of which we will measure the results of the work of public enterprises, then we will also be able to talk about firing. So there is no number and it is not a media attractive, but it is a system solution, it is a quality solution, that we have a way to solve the problem of public enterprises. I've given you information today, and we've been talking in public for a few days about how we first run a policy with public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18262	Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica! ) Mr. Djurisic, would you like to ask the question asked by Mr. Sertic to answer? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18263	I don't know what else to talk about. Mr. Minister, we tell the same story all the time. Yes, reforms are necessary, but not in the way you conduct them in certain parts. Not by cutting salaries and pensions first, but by increasing taxes, leaving salaries and pensions, to rationalise more efficiently, whatever you say, the work of public enterprises, not by doctors, professors, health workers and other budget users. A more efficient public administration should be made by rewarding those of the most capable and valuable, not by leaving an evening as it is so far. That's what you can hear from all the amendments we've proposed. Foreign investment, there's been a lot of talk here. Where did the money go? Here, let's see who the biggest exporters in 2014 are and see what time and when those factories started working. "Fiat Cars Serbia" -- a billion and 241 million for the first 11 months. The oil industry of Serbia, "Tiger Tyres", Željara Smederevo, "Gorenje", "Tetra pak salesksn", HIP "Petrohemia", "Hemofarm", "Jura Corporijsn", "Tarket", "Bal Packing Europe Belgrade", "Impol Seval", "Veli", "Syrmium style" and I don't know what this place is, but the last one on this list is "Er Serbia". So, in three years, here's the third year, your score is "Er Serbia," and all of this I've read before is for these terrible 12 years, when it's only been destroyed, when it's only stolen, it's the results. These are the results. I would like to see something next to "Er Serbia" for a few years. I live in this country, I want my children to live, and I want everyone to feel better.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18264	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. I've heard everything, just not the answer to the question asked by the minister. The word has Minister Zeljko Sertic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18265	I'd just like to give you one more piece of information, given the investment story. Yes, some things were done in the previous period, but do you know how many of these companies wanted to leave Serbia and go to other destinations, because of corruption, because of fraud, because of everything that happened in years ago? The reform process is a serious matter and a deep thing that cannot be solved by one law. All of what we're talking about today's budget, all of the elements, is part of a system-wide solution. The easiest thing to say is, let's raise our taxes. You can't reform the IRS overnight and set up a story. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Tax collection. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18266	Mr. Bozovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18267	I'm asking you why you didn't do it in the last few years? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: She was much bigger. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18268	Please, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18269	Whether that tax collection was, I tell you, we wouldn't have any complaints from foreign investors about the problems they've been made, and now we have to form special teams that make special plans with every company to keep them, and the number of workers and everything that's been promised, and it's not done in the meantime. Protecting foreign investors and supporting domestic investors to reinvest in Serbia is a serious job and that is exactly what we are doing today. Don't throw individual numbers and individual data at each other, because it doesn't add up to anyone. It is of interest to you and to us both to have more foreign investment, to have more domestic entrepreneurs opening up their new companies and expanding their production facilities, and it takes a lot more than just one word or change of one amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18270	Thank you, Mr. Sertic. Mr. Tatomir, your MP group has no more time, so you can't get the word. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18271	All I have to say is that we found a desperate tax charge... Marko Djurisic, from the scene: On what basis? ) According to the amendment. ... Desperate tax collection, so it happened that neither of those biggest tycoon taxes was charged nor anyone interested in it. Absolutely no one was interested in that. Is it because they were politicians from that government in a good relationship with the tycoons that they were not interested in, or were these taxes completely uninteresting, or were some people taking money in other ways, and the country wherever it went. However, what the state has done even better, in addition to increasing tax collection, of course, we have also introduced a fuel margin, which has significantly increased fuel revenues, which is good. A lot less smuggling and much less selling in a fake way. Of course there's still different attempts, but we're gonna keep that from happening. It is that some of these companies started working during the period when the previous government worked on it, but look at how much the capacity of many of these companies has increased since 2012, because they recognized the creation of a more positive economic climate. The company that had 150 or 200 workers today has under 500, 1000, 1500 workers. This shows that they now realize that they have more reliable and better partners. After all, investments, business environments are changing around our country. Many others are involved in granting subsidies to bring companies that still come to Serbia because they believe they have a better chance in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18272	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18273	Your Honored Chairman, I believe you've injured Article 158. For the fifth time, it seems to me, you've allowed several ministers to speak on one amendment, and in this case two ministers. You had a situation where Mr Sertic responded to the amendment, he had his comments, he had a replica, and then you allowed Minister Stefanovic to get involved in the debate again. It's already happened several times, and we've turned our attention to it several times... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18274	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I've understood that a few times already. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Yes) Thank you. The word is Mr. Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18275	I don't know how to understand your remark. Will you continue to violate Article 158(7)? The Rules of Procedure continue to allow ministers to appear indefinitely?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18276	Mr. Djurisic, the Assembly will declare in the voting day whether I have broken the Rules of Procedure or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18277	I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18278	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. National MP Jovan Markovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18279	The Honored Chairman, Honored Ministers, this amendment refers to Article 10 which says the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is controlling the implementation of the plan to streamline the number of employees. I point out the possible failures, i.e. that attitude 3 and attitude 4 are not in line with other laws, i.e. they may not be constitutional, and I especially want you to pay particular attention to the 3rd position that says - that the finance minister without previous analyses, without some procedures, can suspend the earnings of employees in those systems that have potentially failed to rationalise what plan he has foreseen. I believe it is the minister's obligation to make the finance, whether in this case for the state administration and local administration and to initiate proceedings to criminal or criminal against the responsible persons, but not because of the lack of respect for the law by the responsible person, those people who are employed are punished. For example, some local administration may be in a position to suspend employees due to the president of a municipality or mayors who do not respect the law, to be punished and to have the finance minister suspend their earnings at a certain point. I don't think it's in accordance with the law, and I don't think it's in accordance with the Constitution. The second question here also concerns transfer funds, I think with these views, the finance minister gets great discretion and I think a kind of centralism is being introduced to the small door, and I think these members should, or attitudes should be thrown out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18280	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Branka Karavidic. Here you go, Mr. Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18281	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, we have predicted that article 1 of Article 11 be deleted. So, he predicts that budgets are being implemented in proportion to the revenue and receipts of budgets. We believe that commitments towards beneficiaries of the budget must be met in accordance with the law and other regulations and contracts, not just how and how the budget is filled. Yes, as we had this year's situation, the flood didn't plan to fill the budget, and then maybe the people needed the most. Would applying this member of the law, as it is written, mean that because of the reduction of revenue in the budget, certain users of the rights they exercise under the law, which is to be settled out of the budget, does this mean that they will be left without their rights. Does this mean that some income will be delayed and that some obligations will not be fulfilled in accordance with the contract, so later we will have a penalty based on it and whether it means that we will have, as we had during the period of the solidarity tax, that, for example, women on maternity leave do not pay their regular authority out of the budget, and then it will be paid suddenly in a few months, so it goes beyond that 60,000 figure, as planned by a solidarity tax and then their income is reduced. Such things, the introduction of such precedents is dangerous in Serbia's legal system and therefore we think it is very important to accept this amendment in order to preserve legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18282	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18283	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, is to me in this article a disputed position 2 that says that if revenue and budgets are reduced, expenditures and budget expenditures are to be implemented according to priorities. The following little is explained, what the priorities mean, but what is controversial is that this is an insufficiently precise formulation, i.e. better say an inaccurate formulation. Neither is it said how reduced revenues are after the appraisals, nor is it said in what time period. I felt that instead of this formulation, Mr. Minister, it was necessary to introduce a term or to determine the amount of that reduction that would mean some measures, or to specify what it means to implement priorities. But what my proposal is, is to define that if income cuts in some positions, it's to rebalance the budget. I think it would be far more celibate and that this formula that you have left here in this case offers space for various or errors, or abuses, or ambiguities that can in practice be fatal to some systems. So far, it has been a practice for budget rebalances in all systems to be done if the revenues are not on the agenda that existed, so I think this is undefined and that the formulation should either be precise or change in that and that the budget is rebalanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18284	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, respected Ministers and Guests from different ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I have three previous remarks, one observation and one question for Mr Vujovic. Notices first. I think, gentlemen, it is very important that MPs take the bill seriously, especially when it comes to a bill of law like this. If we have to work longer, all night, work all night and prove ourselves more industrious than this Serbian government, gentlemen. The other thing, I think, and this is first of all one direction to the ministers here, Mr. Becic, be careful, the MPs here are asking questions, Mr. Sertic, and the ministers are answering questions. I had to make that observation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18286	Mr Pavicevic, please explain the amendment, do not replicate with ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18287	I'm explaining, explaining, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18288	You can't do that if you replicate ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18289	You saw our amendments here and adopted Mr. Becic. Please be patient, I have, like this, a layered explanation of the amendment. Be patient in listening to our arguments, Mr. Becic. Third thing, as a previous note. Look, Mr. Sertic here thinks the government thinks one thing, and everyone else, if they think otherwise, is just one different opinion. It's not Mr. Sertic, well, they're a variety of opinions, Mr. Becic. The new party has its own economic reform programme. Read it, Mr. Sertice. The amendment, Mr. Vujovic, I won't be able to ask the question, I'll save it for the next one. We suggest we delete the two-pointer. If there's a two-point in point two, it's got to be a new row number one. So what in number one? Well, new row number two. This way, when there's only two things, you don't have to do two things. It is known that two things, the ally "i" are in between. There's no reason to reject this amendment as the thirteenth, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18290	Mr. Pavicevic, this is not clear to me. We have an amendment to "expect" and you're talking about economic reform. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: "Not deleted" Mr. Becicu. You don't read our amendments. ( bulwark) Delete. So, as soon as something is erased there's no economic reform. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18291	Amendments to the Agreement on the European Economic Area (‘the EEA Agreement’) are hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18292	Thank you. I find that a representative of the government has accepted this amendment. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18293	I don't know if you can imagine the degree of democracy of a finance minister. This is amazing. I am delighted with how Mr. Vujovic does it. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18294	I thank and apologize, Mr Pavicevic. I'm used to all of your amendments being "expunged". I apologize again. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: See how you are wrong. And Mr. Babic is wrong. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18295	Thank you, Mr. Becic. We have proposed an amendment because of the type and specificity of the job for the Emergency Budget Fund, as well as for the Emergency Sector of the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia. It is impossible to determine that unless additional inflows or revenues are made from other sources of funding, planned expenditure and expenditure will not be spent on the burden of the budget. How else are you trying to do this, or you're going to try to solve it, unless you're going to continue to cut even more wages and pensions. We propose a fight against corruption. Here is Mr. Stefanovic, who is troubled by the level of democracy of Minister Vujovic, so I suggest that he accepts the same, I suggest that we also put a certain inflow of funds into the budget by fighting corruption. There's one thing I have to mention. It is, when we talk about corruption, a huge possibility has been left for tycoons who have acquired property in robbery privatisations, i.e. public enterprises bought for relatively small money, to have today under the Law on Planning and Construction the right to land where they have the right to use, to obtain construction permits. If someone paid the company five million euros, Mr Stefanovic, you are the police minister, today it is worth several billion euros in potential. I just want to point out that the fight against corruption...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18296	Mr. Bozovic, can you just explain to me what your discussion has to do with the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18297	Let me finish, since you took ten seconds from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18298	Here, you have 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18299	You didn't understand Mr Pavicevic's earlier remarks, so you were wrong. Let me tell you now that the fight against corruption is very important for the country's sustainability and fiscal stability in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18300	I thank Mr. Bozovic. This is for the public, to read the amendment that you have explained: "If the beneficiaries of the budget do not generate additional revenue and inflows from other sources of financing, expenditure and expenditure planned on this basis will not be implemented on the burden of general revenue of the budget, except in the case of the Emergency Budget Fund, as well as the Emergency Sector of the Ministry". Except for this last sentence from the Ministry of the Interior. On Article 12 of the amendment, the People's MP... Sorry, replica, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18301	Just to be clear, to me, not to bother, I have just praised Mr Vujovic for the degree of democracy that shows. I think these amendments he accepts are an indication that the government is ready to work with everyone and accept amendments that change the text of the law and improve it. It's perfect for me. It's fantastic for me. I think Mr Vujovic does it in a completely democratic way. As for the fight against corruption, I'm first glad that you admitted that privatisations were mostly robbery and I've been saying it for a while now. You just said that. Of course, I'm not saying they're criminals, they're the nice people who ruined our companies, and I hope that someday the courts will prove it, and the fight against corruption, of course, we'll be leading the hardest possible. You can see that the M.O.P. isn't coming down. I'm just asking you not to complain when we're doing our job, that no one complains, that people, like we don't judge them in advance, don't you claim that they didn't do anything wrong, even though the court didn't prove it. I don't prejudge that he's a criminal or that he's going to be convicted, it'll be determined by the court, but I always want to say when we have grounds for doubt and we'll report when we have basic suspicions for people that they've committed serious crimes. Unfortunately, hundreds of thousands of people without a job, broken-down companies, many young people who have left this country are proof that something very bad has been done. The fact that only individuals in this country were becoming enormously richer than they were, and many of them during their stay in power, shows that it was a shrew between those who could help from the ranks of government and those who had financial interest. In any case, you have our word that we will fight corruption much harder than everyone has fought before us. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18302	Mr. Bozovic, you have no right to a replica. The minister just commended you for mentioning the robbery privatisation and gave you his word. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I've already moved on to the next amendment. Here you go, Mr. Veselinović. There's no Mr. Veselinović. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I thank you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. If I violate the Rules of Procedure, Mr Bozovic, in the presentation of Mr Markovic, you may freely report.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18303	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, in Article 12(2), is, in my opinion, contrary to point 1 and here it is said: "A beneficiary of the budgets which in the course of the year are subject to a reduction in the approved appraisals for the purpose of carrying out an emergency payment for the amount of the company's reduction will take appropriate measures to adapt the commitment." The following text states that it will propose a reduction of the obligation, i.e. an extension of the contractual period, etc. and propose to amend the rules which are the basis for the creation and payment of obligations. Dear Ministers, I felt it was very important to pay attention to this point 2 and to specify what kind of mutual relationship may be between those legal entities that have agreed on certain obligations and which have a problem with the executions in the area of forced collection and that, with the precision of this position, it can be proposed, if that execution is greater than 10% in the planned appraisal, that the budget rebalancing is done. Given the circumstances in which these state systems operate, I felt that this position of Article 12 could be a problem, not only for these institutions, but also for many contractors, i.e. institutions with these companies, local administrations already have some contractual relations. For example, we will get into a situation where a local government job was done for four or fivem euros that year. The situation comes to pay and in September of that year there is a forced execution in some part that blocks the account of that local administration. Instead of going to budget rebalances, you will also have a problem with this attitude and those who have worked and local administrations that might otherwise find a solution to that payment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18304	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18305	Mr. Becic, this amendment is in line with the previous amendment, it's just a continuation and a consequence of the previous amendment that you didn't understand, but I hope I have two minutes to explain what I wanted to say. So, as in the last amendment, we advocate that subsidies are reduced, when it comes to public enterprises, Mr Vujovicu and we have no dilemma there. However, on one condition, that reforms are implemented, when it comes to the business of parallel to these public enterprises, parallel to the reduction of subsidies? And why is that? Because we can happen to reduce subsidies for the Railway, as it decreases from year to year, np. , but without a clear restructuring plan for Railways or similar public enterprises. This can lead to the next thing, Minister Vujovic, that they fail to collect enough income and that it is not because there is no restructuring of companies enough to pay off profits in 2015. Then what's going on with it? When it comes to robbery privatisation, I would just like to underline 24 controversial privatisations, Minister Stefanovic, 23 were during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which I hope you know as a great anti-corruption fighter, but I just want to underline one thing. The DS advocates conducting an investigation into all disputed privatisations, but by law you have provided corruption that has not been seen in the history of this country, when it comes to the Law on Planning and Construction. With this in mind, this way, you will weaken the financial power of the state if you do not deal with it until the end, Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18306	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18307	I am prepared to consider your objection, because I really believe that any serious objection to the laws should be considered, and if there are any provisions of any law, and believe that no one has done it on purpose. Regardless of the intentions, of course, if there is any functioning of any provision of a law that may be corrupt, it should be considered and amended. I couldn't agree more. I'm ready to consider it. As with this second, I agree, these 24 privatisations that the EU has spoken of are only part of, unfortunately, the 224 privatisations made in this country in such a way that there are no elements of corruption, but I don't know if there are any elements of corruption and therefore we're going to be very seriously and seriously considering everything, and we're very detailed in the work group's work, simply, just sometimes I'm afraid that I don't have enough people who know the finance in the MUP, because these financial investigations are actually the most sensitive part of the investigation. The parts of the Criminal Police Administration, the Financial Investigation Unit, are the fact that the most precious element we have and those people who work on these jobs are really serious experts, except sometimes it's this material, I was surprised how much of this material can be and they're looking at something, sometimes it seemed to me that it might take them two, three months to look at something. It just seemed to me that someone might be holding it back, but when I saw the volume and, of course, there's no mistake, because it's going to the DA's office later and later in court, I think I understand why these people have a huge job. In any case, we will certainly consider everything, and of course I expect that we will have Parliament's support when it comes to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18308	I thank Dr Stefanovic. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaže Bradic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18309	Thank you, Chairman. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12, which says that the beneficiary of budgets that certain expenditures and expenditures executes from other sources, incomes and incomes that are not general revenue from the budget, can only assume the level of revenue or revenue achieved if the level of income and income received is less than the approved appropriations. I have suggested that the following position be deleted, which says that the beneficiary of the appropriations in the course of the year is subject to a reduction in the approved appraisals for the purpose of carrying out a mandatory payment for the amount of the cut-off, the undertaking shall propose an extension of the contractual payment or cancellation of the contract, i.e. to amend the rules which are the basis for the creation and payment of commitments. The fact that I do not think it is acceptable that in the situation of reducing the approved appraisals due to forced collection, it is unacceptable for the beneficiaries of the budget funds they are otherwise granted to use to settle their obligations, this is because a large number of state and public enterprises cannot settle their claims because of the general financial indiscipline resulting from the poor work of the state administration. In addition, it is not clear what is achieved by the amendment of the regulation in a concrete situation, and I remained obliged, I did not have the opportunity to explain to Mr Sertić why I suggested that 6.5 billion be transferred to the position of agriculture for a simple reason that a few hours ago we had the debate on the budget rebalancing that unscheduled funds were used and I think that even in order to make more efficient use of budget funds, Mr Vujic, money should be transferred to a farm that could immediately be activated through subsidies, and the moment foreign investors reported, and so they announced a lot of rebalancing, money could be transferred to the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18310	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Honorable Guests of various ministries believe here, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 12, and here I have two observations to say with one previous reminder. Despite the fact that we believe that everything that is written in this wasteful side of the budget is the opposite of the government's reform definition, we have decided to submit these 65 amendments to make something that is bad, respected gentlemen, less bad. For example, here, in a language sense, then and in a substantically, the second attitude says this – the beneficiary of the budget funds, which in the course of the year there is a reduction of the approved appraisals for the purpose of making forced payment, Mr Vujović and Mrs Udovici now here, when we say for reasons, respected gentlemen, it is more like this one speech language and already a little bit corrupt. We propose to delete this "for reasons" here we have written one form and fine to put "because of" it is in the spirit of our language, it is by the rules and I ask Mr Vujovic or Mrs Udovici to tell me – do they accept this amendment? One question, here we heard Minister Stefanovic say – all the robbery privatisations from 2000 to 2012. Dear gentlemen, we are talking about a bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Here we have two persons who are direct actors of the executive authority or co-workers of the government from 2000 to 2004. Mrs. Widowsky, how do you feel about that comment? How do you feel about that comment now by your colleagues in this government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18312	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mr Vujovic, I don't see here that he's a former privatisation minister, so you can refer that question. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18313	Amendment accepted. Instead of "for a reason", it will be "for a reason". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18314	I thank and realize that a representative of the government, the minister, has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18315	Respected ministers, the chairman-in-Office, in Article 13, are said to be directly beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia's budget prior to the announcement of new commitments, it is very important that this, before the announcement of new commitments, is prescribed by Article 56. The law on the budgetary system, they have an obligation to report the commitments taken and the unfulfilled commitments of the previous financial year. Noting that the minister mentioned the problem just hours ago, which is related to public enterprises, and said it had received reports from many public companies for 2013 at the end of December. This absolutely means that this government and the institutions of this state have no opportunity to put those commitments that someone made last year, and then this year, in some way, into the next year's budget. My proposal is to specify the time in the amendment I have proposed and to say that the authorities, that is, these institutions that are mentioned in the obligation to report all debts and claims they have in the previous period by 1 November of that financial year. I believe that the deadline relating to November and December is sufficient to plan all budgets at both local and republican level, and this is all about the fact that there is a really big problem with respect to the law, including the Public Debt Act. I know a few examples where people who used to run local administrations, the presidents of municipalities, took loans in large amounts, without the consent of local authorities, congregations, councils, councils, councils, etc., signed some contracts, ministries for these contracts, or the government found out a few months later or maybe a year later, and in any case he entered into a total public debt that he somehow had in the authority of the state, or the government guarantees for him. If the deadline were to be defined and the persons responsible on this basis tied to the deadlines, I think you would avoid these problems, or that you could follow better...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18316	Time, Mr. Markovic. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaže Bradic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Have you spoken according to this amendment, Mr. Bradich?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18317	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment with my colleagues from the parliamentary group to Article 13 who says that direct beneficiaries of the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget prior to the announcement of new obligations under Article 56(3). The Budgetary System Act, "The Official Messenger", that I do not read it, must report in the budget implementation system the commitments undertaken and the unfulfilled commitments of the previous financial year. We have proposed that this member of the Budget Law be deleted, because this member is scheduled for direct beneficiaries of the appropriations before the announcement of new commitments to be entered into, and unfulfilled commitments from the previous financial year. This member, as well as the next members of this Budget Law, settles the issue that should lead to financial and fiscal discipline in normal countries, and that would be great, Mr. Minister, if the government were to stick to it first. However, in a situation where the Government directs the budget to the Assembly beyond each budget calendar, and then, after the 2015 budget, it also points to budget rebalances for 2014, ten days before the end of 2014, we believe that this member imposes commitments that they cannot objectively meet, because they can virtually never predict what obligations they have, whether they have fulfilled them or not, whether they are greater or less, and what obligations they will have next year, because obviously reforms are very turbulent. This is especially when it comes to the fact that Mrs. Korry Udovici told us that the rationalization plan is still being done, and he's been budgeted for example, and now we have no idea what he contains, what are the criteria for implementation, which is his... etc. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18318	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18319	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So we suggested that article 14 be deleted, and for the sake of the citizens who follow this transmission in these tiny hours I'll read you what we suggested to delete. Therefore, Article 14 speaks of the priority of spending on goods and services of beneficiaries of budgetary resources and users of compulsory social insurance organisations having expenditures on fixed costs, current repair costs and maintenance of materials. The beneficiaries of the appropriations are obliged to make commitments on the basis of fixed costs, current repair costs and maintenance of materials, as well as capital expenditure, to settle within the time limit laid down by the law governing the deadlines for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions. Furthermore, this article says that if the beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Serbia in carrying out expenditure counter the provisions of Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance Affairs, makes a decision to suspend the execution of the other appraisals set out in this law for the beneficiary. If the beneficiaries of the budget of the local authorities in carrying out the expenditures and expenditures counter the provisions of Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, the finance minister will suspend the transfer of the transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. the corresponding part of the income tax and corporate tax. The priority in the implementation of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" has obligations towards contractors, within the deadlines laid down by the law governing the deadlines for the settlement of financial obligations in commercial transactions. If the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" does the contrary to the position of the 5th member, the finance minister will suspend the transfer of funds based on subsidies intended for this public enterprise, or the funds will focus on paying the liabilities of the 5th member's position. The public company "The Ways of Serbia" has an obligation to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18320	Thank you very much, we've read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18321	Let me read the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18322	It's been two minutes. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the honored guests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I think that I, the Honored President, have earned some extra time tonight because we are being adopted by the amendments, which means that the bill's proposals are getting better, or, as we say here, less bad. We also suggest that Article 14, gentlemen of respect, and there are two things that are important to me, above all for Mr Vujovic here and his associates. First of all, Mr Vujovicu, as regards Article 14, it is very important to know that subsidies, I am going back a little to the table that we have already passed, despite being reduced by a realistically almost 20%, still too high, and we believe that they should have been less in the economy first and, of course, respected gentlemen, for the Railways. By the way, by the way, we thought that the attitude of the 1st member should change in a language sense and, here, I can teach some of these texts prepared by the government. Watch your step one now. It reads as follows: "Priority in carrying out expenditure on goods and services of beneficiaries of budget funds etc." But I consider it also a little bit where I consulted people who know language better than I do that the real formulation in the spirit of Serbian language is the next, respected gentlemen, Mr Vujovicu...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18324	Just a minute. The Minister called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18325	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18326	Sustained. National MP Jovan Markovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18327	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I believe that Article 14 of paragraphs 3, 4 and 6 should be deleted. I am again trying to communicate with the minister and with Mrs. Udovicki, and I urge you to reconsider the legality in the handling of the finance minister who has discretionary rights in the event, for example, that local administrations do not respect certain members of this law, that the minister has a discretionary right to suspend transfers in terms of how he assesses it. In line with the reasoning I had for article 10, I believe that the explanation for that article is also here. If certain abuses have occurred, if no plans have been carried out, if income cuts have occurred in some positions, then the responsible person acting unlawfully against the responsible person should be prosecuted, and not in a situation where there are possible employees or certain other institutions that have co-operated, say, with local administrations on this basis. Minister, I've been trying to get at least a few reasons as to whether or not you think this principle is right or not, or whether you think that any selective decisions and actions of a local administration's ministers are going to get into certain problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18328	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18329	Thus, points 3 and 4 are the essential points of view of Article 14 and are therefore not accepted to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18330	The 14th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Ivan Karic and Dr Blagoja Bradic together submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18331	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We have suggested that Article 15 be deleted and, while respecting your earlier suggestion, I will first read the explanation, i.e. Explain why we propose to delete Article 15. This article regulates the monthly report on the fulfilment of priorities, i.e. delays in those priorities set out in earlier members, i.e. The priorities of local self-government and the Public Enterprise Roads and other budget users and gives the minister the right to suspend transfers. This member, as well as the next members, settles the issue that should lead to financial fiscal discipline in the normal country, and that would be great if the government were to stick to it first. However, in a situation where the Government directs the budget to the Assembly beyond each budget calendar, and after the 2015 budget, it directs the rebalance for 2014 and 10 days before the end of 2014, we believe that this member of the budget users is forced by commitments which they objectively cannot meet because they can virtually never predict what obligations they have, whether they have fulfilled them or not, whether they are greater or less than what commitments they will have next year, because obviously reforms are very turbulent. This is especially when we consider the statements of individual ministers who said that the rationalisation plan is still being done, and that it is, for example, budgeted in the 2015 budget and now we have no idea what it contains. In order to know what I'm talking about, Article 15 says that respect for priorities in carrying out expenditures and tasks and implementing other measures to improve financial discipline will be monitored on the basis of a monthly report on the state of the delay. In fact, these have reached unmistakable commitments by beneficiaries of the budget, beneficiaries of the funding of compulsory social insurance organisations and JP "Serbian Roads". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18332	A member. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18333	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable President of the Assembly, the honored guests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and my fellow Members, as I understand it, from different ministries of our government, I now expect nothing more than to adopt our amendment to Article 15. The draft budget law, with one note that apparently the opposition won here tonight, gentlemen. These applause testifies to that. I must also say that it is very important that the MPs of the Progressive Party also hear very precisely from Minister Vujovic or perhaps Stefanovic, or others, to accept the amendment, so that they do not forget in the voting day to vote in favour. Although, this is becoming part of the law, as I understand it. Dear gentlemen, we have suggested that Article 15 change attitude 2 and here I try to explain. I will not now refer to that table concerning the expenditure side of the budget, which is also important to us, regarding both the subsidy and the transfer of money from the Health Insurance Fund to the National Employment Service, which we propose, for example. Here, but it's important for us here to know that attitude 2 in our court should change.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18334	One moment, I have news for you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18335	The proposal is accepted to change the sentence and to make the first part of the sentence the second part of the sentence, which is a better Serbian language than the one written here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18336	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18337	For the sake of truth and for the sake of that victory presented, as the amendment promoter said, which measures the applause that came from the other side, you know, and the circus applauds the clowns. So it has nothing to do with each other. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18338	Just to finish the sentence. He can finish the sentence. You're not running a session. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: You had to stop him immediately. Don't yell at me. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I am not shouting. You're going into direct transmission and the citizens will say you're yelling. I want Zoran Babic to finish, so there's no warning. Here you go. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18339	Victory is determined in the only place where victory is determined. It is not measured by applause, support and is measured at polls, and citizens of the Republic of Serbia have defined which policy they support and what they support. A flat-rate assessment that someone won tonight, I think it will beat the government of the Republic of Serbia by voting this budget for the Republic of Serbia for 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18340	Mr. Pavicevic, what book are you holding? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: The Constitution. The Constitution doesn't get a word here, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18341	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, President of the National Assembly, guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have had a serious debate here on the content of the draft law on our country's budget for 2015, gentlemen. Article 107, I said, the dignity of the National Assembly and of all the MPs here has been injured. In a situation where we are correcting a law, where it is obvious that the reasons for the amendments proposed here by the opposition MPs are so convincing that no one here can stand up to it, the head of the SNS parliamentary group is calling me here a clown, because it says the clown circus is applauding. Mrs. Gojkovic, I believe that the only appropriate reaction at the time, when Mr. Babic said that, as far as your session is concerned, was to give Mr. Babic notice on the basis of Article 109 and perhaps the measure of distance from the National Assembly session. This would protect the dignity of every MP here individually, including mine, but also the institutions of the National Assembly, which, once again here to say, is the sanctuary of political life in our country. Mrs. Gojkovic, if you did not give this measure in time, one of two, Mr. Babic, I invite you to now give it on the basis of article 109, one of these two measures to Mr. Babic, because he deserves it here, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18342	You've got a round of applause now. So, applause is not forbidden to use in political communication in parliament. He didn't come directly to you and call you a clown. I'd take that as an insult, if it were really directed to you. Grab your head, whether it's my head or yours, I didn't understand. I have another sensitivity, I'm not so easily offended. I think we should continue to discuss, as you said, a serious law and not obstruct. I don't know what that means to you. (Vesna Marjanović, from the place: Can you give me your word? No, I won't give you a word to explain. (Vesna Marjanović, from the place: Why do you ask me when I can't explain it to you? I didn't ask you anything. (Vesna Marjanović, from the place: You asked me a question – what does that mean? No, I didn't ask you anything. I don't know how you recognized each other. I'm communicating with an MP who requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't raise your hand, you must know the Rules of Procedure. Please, seriously, a little bit. Ambassador Pavicevic, I speak to you, I communicate with you, not with the soufflés, or I do not know what it means, I have not asked any MP besides you. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18343	Dear Chairman, I believe that you have injured Article 108 of attitude 1 that says - the order of the National Assembly is the president of the National Assembly. A speaker, one of his fellow MPs called the Assembly a circus. I think he insulted every single one of us MPs, all the ministers present here in the O.R., other guests, and these cameramen who work here late with us at this time of day or night. It is your duty to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure and the order of the session. You had to the moment when it was said that, in accordance with Article 109 of the People's Parliament, who insulted all MPs in the hall, ministers, guests and all others, to give notice. You didn't have any other option than that, because that's how it is in this Rules of Procedure that you have to stick to from beginning to end. If you do not like it, make a suggestion to amend the Rules of Procedure. As long as he's right, you have to act on him. We are all offended, since this assembly is now called a circus. We work here for the fourteenth, 15th hour. You can't call this a circus. I ask you to take care of the respect of this Rules of Procedure, to take care of what words MPs use here and to ask those MPs who do not have the concentration to work at this time, not to interfere with the work of the others who are willing to work until we have completed this very important item of the agenda. I'd like you to warn the ministers not to walk around the hall and sit in their seats.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18344	Thank you very much. Article 108 says the president is getting old and asking me, first position, to deny right away, that I have to say this or that. I don't have to. So, the president, attitude one, is getting old, so he decides if he's going to give a warning. I do not want the situation to be repeated the other day, when a colleague on the left called parliament and the other MPs a cattle, and today he said it was not only about MPs but about everything. I don't want that to happen again. I want to discuss the budget, not the violations of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't want to support obstruction, because one of the MPs came to my office and said, "We have a right and we're going to make an obstruction." It's a legal right, but I'm not going to take part in it, and I'm not going to make any warnings, but I'm going to try to work on the agenda, so no matter how long it takes, it doesn't matter. Did everyone feel, as you claim, 250 MPs have been identified and said that we are all circuses, that we are all clowns, will be seen at the vote, how much anyone will vote for your injury to the Rules of Procedure. Maybe someone felt offended, and maybe someone didn't feel offended. As president, I don't work in a circus, for sure. I didn't realize Ambassador Babic said we were circus and circus. Please, do you want us to vote on whether you are right or the chairman, who claims that he did not harm the Rules of Procedure? Since in another way I cannot establish order, in accordance with Article 112, I am giving a break of minutes, to return to the agenda, not to make something out of parliament that we do not want. We want to work. Everyone says they want to work and discuss the budget, because this is the most important issue for Serbian citizens, and then we offer Serbian citizens injuries to the Rules of Procedure for an hour or two. So, I want to establish order, but then there's no time after the suspension, because Article 112 says the chairman is establishing order. Now I'm taking a break, so it'll be a turn and we'll get back on the agenda. Don't leave the O.R., it'll be quick to pass that order. [[after breaks]] Thank you. I hope the passions have calmed down and we can work. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Do you want a word? (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Yes. Don't yell at me. I'm not letting anyone raise their voice. The dignity of the Assembly is not only when an MP hurts an MP across the street. Have respect for the President of Parliament, which is the atmosphere of parliament. I can't give a word to the Rules of Procedure when one MP stands. Have respect for the MPs who first receive the word, MPs Vesna Marjanović. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18346	Thank you, President. Therefore, the amendment in Article 16(1) is amended and it is said that the public undertaking and other forms of organisation, the founder of which is the Republic, are obliged to share, by 30 November of the current financial year, at least 70% of the profits, and public agencies up to 100% of the profits, i.e. the excess revenue on expenditure on the final account for 2014...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18347	You're talking about an amendment to Article 16. You didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18348	I understand you told me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18349	I didn't. You're talking about an amendment to Article 16. Sit down, I'll give you my word when I'm done with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18350	I also have an amendment to Article 15.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18351	You've missed the subject, I'll give you article 16. Don't argue. We can't argue, by yelling at the President of Parliament. Sit down. The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18352	Thank you, President. Art. 107th and 108th. Rules of Procedure. I really need to stress the fact...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18353	Art. 107th and 108th were used. Do not follow the course of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18354	It's not about exploitation, Mrs. Gojkovic. You don't have...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18355	Art. 107th and 108th were used. Don't yell. I don't allow a cry in parliament. Sit down. You don't have a chance. (National MP Vesna Marjanovic throws out of place. I shut you down so you wouldn't get a warning. Respect the Parliament. Sit down. (National MP Vesna Marjanovic throws out of place. I don't know, don't yell. That's not nice. It's not polite. Don't yell, don't threaten. I'm not really scared. And if there's a change in government, as you said the other day, I'm not afraid. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18356	President, for the sake of calming the tension...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18357	Please quote a member so I can follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18358	Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18359	Now she's asked for a letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18360	No, ma'am. 107th and 108th.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18361	Okay. Now we're going to see how many times one of those same members has been listed in sequence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18362	Let me finish. Believe me, unlike you, I've been in the O.R. all day. Believe me, I'm more tired than you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18363	I have to do something else while you guys take a break. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18364	You've injured a 106th member and I'm just inviting you, as president of the Assembly, the head of the largest parliamentary club in this house to drop tensions and get back to discussing the amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18365	Okay. I've been asking that for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18366	I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because I heard you after a one-minute break, and many ministers were standing, and you said, "Is anyone answering by that and that amendment?" I said, "Yes, I'm answering..."
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18367	You missed, you responded to article 115, and you stood up and said, "116."
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18368	I haven't heard what member you're giving me your word for. So, it was crowded.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18369	Thank you. We didn't go to 116. You'll get your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18370	Can I get a word in article 115?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18371	Sit down. Thank you. Article 106. – only about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. You weren't talking about the point of the agenda under review, you were talking about the next amendment, so I asked you to stop the discussion to get the amendment you want to talk about. Do you want to vote? (Yes) I was warned at one point that there would be obstructions. The transmission is still going on, so citizens can give an assessment of what this is all about. By what member, Mrs. Marjanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18372	Art. 107th and 108th. Since you're a little...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18373	It was. You can't just get a word in force, only you want to talk at all costs. There are other members.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18374	Do I look like someone who's doing something by force?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18375	You can't get a word out because you're abusing...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18376	Mrs. Gojkovic, you are not a class elder, you are the president of the Assembly. Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18377	You're not a student either, don't act like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18378	Of course not. Let me finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18379	I give you a warning, Messengers. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18380	Mr President, I believe that you have hurt by your actions, Article 27, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which he says - the President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. We've been working 15 hours already, and we've had the last few hours of quality discussion, discussion on the subject, we've been dealing with attitudes, MPs with government members over the proposed amendments. Some amendments have been accepted, some have not and with your taking over this assembly we have lost the way we had until a few minutes ago, I'm talking about the violations of the Rules of Procedure, and you're talking about the obstruction that you've caused. We have not caused this obstruction, but the actions of a fellow MP who has offended us all and you have refused to act on Article 27, to make sure that this Rules of Procedure applies, to apply it to the end, that, by Article 109, he does not give you the arbitration right to decide whether you will punish someone or not. Rather, it is clearly said that the reminder is given to an MP who uses offensive expressions. You have no right to arbitration here, but you must follow the Rules of Procedure. I know there's anxiety, because someone thought this session would end much sooner. But we think the subject is very serious and we want to make a contribution to adopt as high as possible the budget and other laws on the agenda. You can't blame us for what we want to do for both 16, 17 and 20 hours, because that's probably the way this country moves forward, so we're listening from the prime minister. And you allow us to work and not to make us...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18381	Thank you. Thank you. Now I'm going to let you work, here we're going to pull out a stenogram, we're going to divide everyone and the public and Serbia to see how many injuries there have been to the Rules of Procedure in an hour and if we're doing anything. I'll meet you. And let's see who's been looking for the injuries of the Rules of Procedure in an hour, who's wasting time on Serbian citizens, who won't let Serbia go forward and who won't let it talk about, there's no pause. Don't yell at me. I won't let anyone yell at me, throw it at me, because this is Parliament. And because they do not cry to the chairman, and you have not yet cried to the chairman. I'll see Ninoslav Stojadinović when he leads whether or not you'll yell. I'm very interested. Do you allow Serbia to move forward, so we can start talking about amendments or have any other injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so that the citizens of Serbia can see if we will meet the wish. Your Honor, are we talking about an important topic or not? It's up to you. It's not up to an MP who doesn't have to watch this. It's up to you to discuss the budget. Just from you. And then I'll be able to absolutely apply and respect Article 27. You won't let me get to the agenda. It's clear, legally, and legitimately what you're doing, but don't hide behind other reasons. I didn't hurt Rule 27, and I can't do it at all. You won't give me a chance to hurt the Rules of Procedure, because it's only going to hurt the Rules of Procedure, one after the other. It's impossible for the chairman to hurt his Rules of Procedure from one second to the next while he's silent and giving his word. That's impossible. Here you go. We'll vote, anyway. Here you go. As for work, 48 hours don't worry about anything, but we'll do it. We're not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18382	Dear Chairman, I call on article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18383	He was a 107th member. He can't be bid again. There's got to be something between you and me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18384	Can I explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18385	You can't explain it because you can't get the word. She knows Mrs. Gordana Comic. A little consultation with your group's MPs, I'm asking for the collegiation that 30 of them can't get up and say Article 107 of Article 108 after each other. I know Grdan approves, but he can't because of party discipline. I believe what a party whip is, therefore, sit down. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18386	Finally. Thank you. Article 16 requires a higher budget charge, because expected revenues cannot be predicted with certainty as we have spoken today, and in order to avoid new borrowing, which is exclusively a burden for all taxpayers, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia who pay taxes, it is necessary to use existing capacities. I'd like the President's order in the O.R., please. I can't hear myself from the noise.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18387	I hear you and the Minister hears you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18388	First of all, we propose that budgeting be improved by reforming the tax administration, not by having someone led by the tax administration who is a freak, as the Serbian prime minister said, but by implementing reforms, not by someone blackmailing or threatening someone, but by systemic ones that will lead to an increase in tax collection. It's a fight against tax evasion. Then we propose a fight against corruption that has put deep roots in Serbian society over the last three years, into a system that is ruling in Serbia. Fighting cigarette and tobacco smuggling and also new investments. When we talk about new investments, Mr. Vujovic, we just want to hear where the new investments you promised were like Mercedes, what about the chip factory, what about Ike, and whether the chip factory may have been misheard in one period in Serbia, so this refers to the plug factory, since the plant for the production of cotton for bottles in the last two years in Serbia has been created, but we haven't seen anything from the chip factory. Do new inscriptions...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18389	Time. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18390	The amendment in which you are asking for a minimum to be 70% not acceptable, at least 50% is what is in Article 16(1). This year it allows the government to determine more given the conditions of real circumstances. This is a minimum. We're proposing a minimum to 50%, we've set 70 percent for real this year. Therefore, we do not exclude the possibility of being 70%, but not as a minimum, but as a possible solution to the government. The other thing you're saying is not the subject of this point of the 2015 Budget Act, and I have no comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18391	National MP Jovan Markovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18392	Dear ministers, the chairman-in-Office, I believe that the first position in Article 16 relating to public enterprises and other forms of organisation, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, is that they are obliged by 30 November of the current financial year to pay at least 50% of their profits and agencies 100%. It is said, in this case, in 2014, that the surplus income on the final account of the current year is to be deposited in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but according to the dynamics set by the ministry in charge of finance affairs. In view of the difficult situation in which companies and public enterprises and all institutions in Serbia function, I find it wrong for the Government to centralise those decisions, i.e. I believe it is right to make decisions and determine dynamics in the bodies of the company, but with the previous consent of the Ministry, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will respect all the problems and specificities of the business of the system. In this case, one chance is given and all these institutions are given within reasonable time limits, but by their means, they respect the law and determine their dynamics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18393	Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Goran Bogdanovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18394	Thank you, Your Honor. Gentlemen, we have proposed in this amendment that the words "other forms of organisation" in Article 1 be deleted, because we believe it is completely unclear, undefined, because this member is talking about public enterprises, public agencies, companies, and we do not know what other forms of organisation are, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. We believe that this is an over-expanded term and that other forms of organization should not be found in Article 16. Article 16 speaks of this, and this is a good thing in this proposal, to get at least 50% of the profits from public enterprises, and 100% of the profits from public agencies, as well as 50% of the profits from companies in which the Republic of Serbia has a stake, transferred directly to the budget. That's good, and we saw in the budget that it seems to me that some 16 billion dinars will bring in as income. I hope this is calculated on the basis of what Minister Sertic told us, that a conversation has been made with representatives of public enterprises in recent weeks and days, that the current situation has been analysed and how much profits can be made in this year, because this profit will be transferred to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What's wrong with this thing is if some of the investments that public enterprises need to make are not made, but the funds are transferred to the budget. We have heard a lot about how the "Electro Network of Serbia" plans 60m euros to transfer to the budget and that's good. But was it because so much money was planned to be transferred to the budget that the reconstruction of the power line was not done, so what happened in Majdanpek was that there was no electricity for three days? If only one channel had been reconstructed, the citizens of Majdanpek might not have been frozen for three days, and the electromonters exposed their lives by climbing the pillars of wind and freezing rain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18395	Time. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18396	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, honored guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, associates, as I understand it, from different ministries, we all know here that the Assembly is the most representative body and there is no obstacle to our orientation towards the adoption of the best, most qualitative laws in this House. For that very reason, gentlemen, I hope you understand that here, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 16. Draft budget law. Here we have one concrete amendment proposal, and one previous note. The previous note, and regarding Article 16, concerns, of course, this expenditure side of the budget, where we, respected Mr Vujovic, have suggested that four billion be transferred to this column, that is, this order for culture. If we already have a share for subsidies, then for culture there must be a little more, dear gentlemen, as well as for education. A concrete amendment proposal in Article 16 concerns attitude one, gentlemen of respect. Here, let me try to convince you to accept this amendment as well. The first sentence of this attitude is this: public enterprises and other forms of organisation, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, are obliged to, be careful now, by 30 November of the current year at the latest, and the sentence continues. We believe, Mr Vujovicu, on the same grounds that our previous five amendments were adopted here shortly before, that this term: "at the latest" should be deleted from here and that it is very precise if it remains: "until 30 November". It is understood that November 30th is the latest possible term for meeting these obligations. It's too big a word, and it doesn't have to be, I think we're dealing with too much stuff here, just what's most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18397	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 16 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. She's not here. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18398	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, we support the fact that at least 50% of the share is paid in the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, but we have one remark. The complaint refers to the fact that dynamics and payments are determined by the Ministry of Finance Affairs. So, the finance ministry will, in accordance with its need, determine when certain companies will be paying part of their profits. Absolutely illogical. It is possible that the Ministry of Economy, but it is not acceptable, because this is how the liquidity of companies is threatened. So, since we have already determined that by November 30th, a portion of the profits are being paid into the budget, why determine further specific dynamics and thus simply tear down the liquidity of certain enterprises, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia? We will be in a situation where certain companies have to take loans to carry out their commitment to the budget, and by paying interest on these loans will reduce the share of profits from 2015, i.e. in 2015, and then 2016 will contribute less to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, once again, you... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18399	Time. Thank you. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Braka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korac, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Aleksandar Senic. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18400	Thank you, President. The current provision leaves a discretionary decision on public companies managers who are not beneficiaries of the budget to behave differently from all other systems owned by the Republic of Serbia. The austerity measures must cover all systems owned by the Republic of Serbia, not only those that are indirect or direct beneficiaries of the budget. For this reason, I am interested in your opinion, Minister Vujovic, if you could accept this amendment, because we think that this is exactly how savings are being made, but not in the way that savings are being made when it comes to educators, and then there is a strike of primary and secondary schools throughout Serbia, because the government of the Republic of Serbia has no ability to find six billion euros not to reach the strike, but to spend tens and tens of billions on failed public enterprises and directors of these failed public enterprises that have tens and tens of thousands of euros in annual incomes. It also does not save on agriculture which we have provided your proposal six billion less than in 2014, and on the other hand 19 billion more on interest payments and loans that we have taken over the last few years. So, I ask you to consider introducing order and that all public enterprises owned by the Republic of Serbia behave in a uniform manner and I hope that the eventual adoption of the amendment will not be a problem for you, as some media are already speculating about your and Mr Sertic's departure in the first reconstruction early next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18401	Thank you. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18402	Dear Minister, I felt it was very important that in Article 17's 3rd position, I once again point out the problem of the minister's discretionary right to put an end to transfers in this case, for example, to local administrations that failed to pay jubilee prizes in the course of the current year. I am once again warning that it is a far more correct way to have a responsible person in the authority of the local administration in this case the President of the municipality or the Mayor of Penalty, i.e. to initiate a criminal or criminal procedure if the budget has not been carried out in the way the law had been laid down. I want to draw your attention that the very difficult position of local administrations in terms of finance is perhaps a reason to think about it and to amend the section of the Law on the financing of local administrations and the new powers that belonged to local administrations in 2011. According to this proposal, you will additionally weigh this difficult position of local administrations by reducing their transfer funds, and for most local administrations, these transfer funds may be the only or biggest source of income that is secure. For many local administrations, transfer funds are only certain, and if you continue in this way to remove these funds from local administrations, they come into an even bigger problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18403	Thank you. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. You want a word? So, no. You want a word? You must sign in, MP, please. You're not in the system, and I have to give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18404	But I don't know if I'm in the system because my microphone's working.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18405	I know if you're in the system. Make my wish and sign up. Is that hard at midnight? It's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18406	Am I in the system?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18407	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18408	Madam Chairman, I don't know if I'm in the system or not because it seems the same to me whether I'm talking or not, and I can also seem to be silent, and I can suggest. All the time I've been trying to propose amendments that have been really established, that you should respect, but you or you are too tired to take care of this order or other colleagues are tired, so I suggest we maybe hang up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18409	No, I just started working. Please, I'm the one you're talking to.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18410	Thank you, if I'm in the system, I wanted to point out that this article 18. ... I think it's groundless if you can't calm down your colleagues and if they're not interested in working. This has never been like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18411	If you think it's absolutely fine. We're going to the next amendment. How you're obstructing. Other MPs have the right to show their attitude towards your amendment by not wanting to hear it. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18412	No, but I'm not finished. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18413	Do you want you or Balša Bozovic? On what grounds? I'd give you my word but not to give you the head of the parliamentary group. Here's a word for Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18414	Please, I haven't finished yet. I've still got a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18415	I'm asking the DS MP to make a deal. The apostle stands for you, turns around and yells at me that he is not finished, and you are looking for a word, and Balsa Bozovic is asking for a word. What am I supposed to do now? I like this obstruction, only the citizens of Serbia don't like what they're looking at right now, the cameras are on to you, and they don't like this at all. Trust me. I'm very well-intentioned. Messenger, do you want me to give you a warning, for this goes beyond measure? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Okay, so sit down. So for a minute and a half, you said I was in the system, I wasn't in the system, and I tolerated it. And now you're yelling at me, and it's not funny. We're talking about the 2015 budget. Whoever first reported whether Balsa Bozovic or Borislav Stefanovic, I can't really be an arbiter. Here you are, Borislav Stefanovic, whether you want to or should ask you to stand up and talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18416	I think you've violated the members of 107 and 108. In fact, you Madam Presidents are currently in violation of these two members of the Rules of Procedure because citizens also know that half the hall is standing and not allowing MPs of the opposition to explain the amendments. I know everyone's tired, believe me, really. I understand nervous, but this behavior I don't think is appropriate, it's not collegiate. You allow that, and you've gone one step further by breaking Article 107. Article 108 is a bad way to run a session that can be seen, too bad the camera can't record this. And in 108, because you've reevaluated, you, what the citizens like, what we do, if we do, don't obstruct, try to point out, talk about our amendments, we can't do that either. I understand, and I repeat, really, I think everyone's tired and nervous, maybe saying some things they wouldn't want to say. You are certainly the last person in the hall who can assess what they like and not the citizens of Serbia. That could be Alexander Wolfie who they voted for. They didn't vote for any of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18417	I didn't understand you as an apostle, whom they voted for, and who chose whom?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18418	It's not for you, it's for Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18419	I thought you knew something about a legislative executive.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18420	You must know very well, Mrs Gojkovic, that you in this room rather than bring down tensions, to influence the MPs of the vast majority, you are now here explaining to us how we are - proportionate to our rights, to the number of our votes. You keep doing it. You keep interpreting the will of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18421	Thank you. You've spent your time, two minutes, respecting Parliament, of course the Rules of Procedure. I didn't hurt any members of 107th and 108th. I'm really trying to run a session in the best possible way, and you're a world man, you've traveled a lot, you've seen MPs act in democratic systems, they turn their backs on each other, they yell, they don't care, they beat themselves into benches. So nothing like that happens in this House, MPs have their own attitude towards your views and express it in their own way. So, you guys do it some time by slamming the door and walking out of the O.R. It's the right of an MP. You know that. Do you want to vote on the violation of members 107 and 108? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: No, there is no point. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. I'm trying, but I can't come to terms with the breach of the Rules of Procedure to run a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18422	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. I'll give up on the Rules of Procedure, but I'm asking you to establish order in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18423	Can I have a member, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18424	I'm giving up the injury, but for the sake of establishing order in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18425	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaže Bradic. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18426	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, we asked that the restriction be deleted so that compensation for the work of the president and members of the Commission and other permanent temporary working bodies in the public sector cannot be increased in 2015. If in 2015, wages and pensions are reduced by 10%, if you have abolished fees, the possibility of rewarding the best in the state administration, if you have abolished Christmas and New Year's bonuses, we believe that this type of compensation, not profits, extra income for individuals in the public sector, in 2015, a difficult crisis, when we need to tighten the belt, should be abolished, not only to be limited to that it cannot be increased. We think it's one good measure of savings, unlike the abolition of New Year's and Christmas supplements. Here 20 minutes ago is Christmas for a number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who celebrate it on a new calendar. The kids went to bed, looking forward to Santa getting them presents tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18427	Please for the amendment, we won't, about Christmas, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18428	I'm talking about the amendment. I'm talking about saving on Christmas presents, they're being abolished, and there's no charge left for the work of presidents and board members and permanent bodies. You know who sits in them. Those with the highest wages in the public sector get extra profits. That's what the previous finance minister who was here was talking about. He talked about how he got twice as much on his profits, because he's sitting on some commissions and working bodies. We think it should be lifted. To keep the kids looking forward to Christmas and New Year's, that those most valuable in the public administration are rewarded, and that those who sit in some commissions, sit, sit, without any result, do not get any money in 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18429	Thank you. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Honorable Associates in different ministries, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 18. Draft budget law. When it comes to this amendment to Article 18, we did not have any substantiative objection in terms of the proposed measures, but we are respected gentlemen, above all Mr Vujovic and Mijailovic, calling for the importance of this bill and the law when it is adopted, and which therefore has its place in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then we felt that this importance must find its own expression in the appropriate language, best possible. That's where we suggested one change. I think she should be accepted here. Here's the thing about the change. The first position of Article 18 says: "The fees for the work of the president and members of the commissions and other permanent and temporary working bodies in the public sector cannot be increased in 2015. We have explained here that a much better formulation is also in the spirit of the Serbian language: "The fees for the work of presidents and members of commissions and other permanent and temporary working bodies in the public sector cannot be increased in 2015. This isn't just a matter of language spirit, it's a matter of what it wants to emphasize in one formulation. I believe that what the promoter's intention is to be emphasized here, that something will not be increased in that year. So, that year, clearly, the budget applies to it, but it will not increase, taking into account this argument, must go at the end of the sentence, respected gentlemen and Mr Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18431	Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18432	I thank the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the honourable Prime Minister, if you are looking at a direct transfer, in this explanation of the amendments due to the desired comprehensiveness of those reforms that this Government has advocated only on paper, the austerity measures must include both presidents and members of committees and other working and temporary bodies in the public sector, otherwise, the austerity measures for which the Government allegedly advocates will not represent savings, but rather a picture of savings in the public, only one pamphlet of the demagogues, which is already slowly accepted in the public sector, in order for citizens themselves to understand the need and seriousness needed to reform the public sector, it is necessary to compensate for the work of reducing both presidents and members of the public sector. For this reason, I am also addressing Mr Vujovic and Sertic, for the simple reason that I think it would be unfair for the government to cut public sector wages and unconstitutionally reduce pensions without reducing the fees for those members of the commission and the working bodies in the public sector that have the highest fees. For a simple reason, I think this is an argument enough to accept this amendment, and I hope it doesn't have any implications for possibly going to a reconstructed government early next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18433	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18434	If you read the entire article 18, you will see that in the third paragraph it writes – payment of fees from Article 1 of this Article and criteria for determining their height, will be governed by a special law. Therefore, there is no need for us to determine this in article 1, when the special law will determine this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18435	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18436	Thank you, Chairman. We've entered a new session day and I'd really like to welcome all of our people in the diaspora who are watching our program right now, because they're the only ones who have the day. Unfortunately, today we couldn't come to a word from the ruling party's representatives and explain our amendments, and we had a lot to say. As in Article 18, paragraph 2. A budget law that looks more like a party declaration, part of an outdated programme, party, former party...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18437	Article 18(2) shall be deleted. I know it's late and everything, just concentrate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18438	Just concentrate, I'm very well focused.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18439	Please, I mean it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18440	Madam Chairman, if you carefully read Section 2, he says – the competent authorities and the public funds users are in charge and to that end initiate amendments to the laws of other rules of general and other acts governing the payment of these fees. So it's a declaration, a resolution, something like that. It's not a legal norm that has a disposition and sanctions. I think you know the chairman well. It's a declaration, a recommendation that's not even a general character, but a political trick, I would say for those who read this budget, and not realize that this budget is essentially a disaster for people who have reduced wages, pensions, not the possibility of new employment, but the layoff of workers who have been at work so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18441	Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. He's not here. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. He's not here. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaže Bradic together submitted the amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18442	We suggested that article 19 be deleted for the simple reason we think it's vague and inaccurate. Article 1 is not clear on what costs are thought of, so it is not possible to clearly determine the rights and obligations of the beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This member should regulate the way in which the beneficiaries of the budget pay the costs related to the use of the business space and movables managed by other public funds users. This article is just another in a series of examples of how rules are adopted that are incomprehensible and inaccurate. In order to make it more clear to the viewers what I am talking about, Article 19 says the following - direct and indirect users of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the budget of local authorities, other than public enterprises that are indirect beneficiaries of the budget of local authorities and compulsory social security organisations that use the business space and movables managed by other public funds users, only provide costs on this basis. So that's that vagueness and inaccuracy. If, in the cases referred to in Article 1(1), the payment of fixed costs cannot be made on the basis of separate accounts, the user who manages the public funds shall make the payment and then the direct or indirect user referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall make the corresponding refund of the expenditure incurred. The refund of Article 2 is considered a way of carrying out expenditure in accordance with the Budget Law and says that direct and indirect users of the Republic of Serbia's budgets use the business space set out in Article 1 in accordance with the government's plan of use. I think this is inaccurate, vague, and it needs to be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18443	The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaže Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18444	Thank you. Thus, Article 20 states that other users of public funds using business space and movables managed by direct or indirect users of the Republic of Serbia's budget pay the costs incurred, the costs of ongoing investment maintenance, i.e. leases, in accordance with the criteria set out again by the Government. We think that this should be deleted because it opens up the possibility of abuse because the government predicts the criteria for determining costs, which is unacceptable, because costs can be different depending on the place of origin or on their kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18445	Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18446	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the SNS, thank you. I don't know if it was me or if the Prime Minister might have made it to this National Assembly, so there was enthusiasm? So, gentlemen, it is very important, of course, that we talk seriously about the bill's proposals, since it is one of the basic responsibilities of the National Assembly to pass laws. I am sorry that the ruling majority MPs are not a little more active now, but there are government representatives to explain to us something that is unclear. Here, there's now a discrepancy for me regarding article 20 of this bill. We have submitted an amendment asking for one word to be deleted, but, for example, I'm not sure whether you're right or you're right about that amendment. So, we suggested that the word “other” be deleted because I, for example, did. I couldn't find out who the other users were based on either the previous member or this member? It reads "other users of public funds using business space and mobile things managed by direct or indirect users of the Republic of Serbia's budget, pay the costs incurred, the costs of current and investment maintenance, i.e. the lease, in accordance with the criteria prescribed by the Government". I thought this was all about the previous member, and then I couldn't understand what it meant, what other users were. Dear Mr Vujovic, if you don't accept this amendment, and I haven't even got that explanation here, why not accept it, it's only important that I and other MPs, who are these other users, if you can tell? Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18447	The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18448	In order to avoid dilemmas, this definition of ‘other’ refers to remaining users not covered by Article 19, and Article 19 and Article 20 refer to beneficiaries of budgetary resources defined in the Budgetary System Act, Article 2. Therefore, "other" here is necessary in order not to refer to what is stated in Article 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18449	The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaže Bradic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18450	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So we've suggested erasing Article 21 because it opens up the possibility of abuse in our opinion. This member represents subsidisation, crediting financially irresponsible business entities and contributing to further public debt growth, while pensioners are anti-sustaining pensions in the name of savings. What did we mean by that? A member regulates the possibility for the Republic of Serbia to write off its claim to economic operators on a proposal from the economy minister. Here you can talk about guarantees given "Srbigas", e.g. Does this mean that the Republic of Serbia will be able to write off a possible claim in 2015 to the "Serbian" for which guarantees are now given? What and what it looks like in the original Article 21, says the government can decide on the write-off of the request from the Republic of Serbia based on loans and liabilities paid on guarantees issued to economic operators, as well as on the conversion of certain achievements of claims made by the Republic of Serbia based on loans from the Republic of Serbia to the capital of the debtors, and on the basis of a proposal from the ministry responsible for business affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18451	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. He's not here. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18452	I thank the Honorable President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 21, if there is a copy of the request provided for in the position of the first member, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is required to inform the public about it through the official government website, seven days from the decision-making process. It is necessary for the Serbian government to publish such information on its official site to establish the principle of responsibility, increase transparency and the possibility for citizens to be those involved in the political process and to make citizens more informed and qualified to make the right political decision. Why not adopt, for example, such an amendment that only increases transparency, not that 12 laws, including the budget, are passed in a non-transparent way, just so the citizens don't know what awaits them in 2015, in a way that is contrary to the Budgetary System Act, where we get just two days to read 1,700 pages for just one law? We think that citizens can gain much greater insight into what is happening in this way and that they really get information that they are interested in or interested in, or that they are speculated in public that they can see them on the government site of the Republic of Serbia and I think that against this transparency, Minister Vujovic, I don't believe anyone in the government can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18453	Four days, not two, but four. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaže Bradic. The word is Blagoje Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18454	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We have also suggested that Article 22 be deleted which says that direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget in 2015 account for the correction of the value of non-financial assets is reflected on the burden of capital, i.e. do not show the cost of depreciation and use of labour resources. We think this opens up the possibility of abuse. This article imposes an obligation on economic operators to artificially reduce their own value, which is what we think. This article stipulates that direct and indirect budget users do not account for depreciation as expenditure, but rather reduce the value of their capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18455	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of Government, here is now especially to speak to Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic with whom I also thought a good discussion when she came here to defend her draft laws and other co-workers from different ministries, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 23 and that member has only one position. Here's what I'm going to read because I didn't intend to do it, and here's the SNS MPs saying to read to remind ourselves one more time. Here are the respected gentlemen what it says in Article 23, here is Mr Markovic, for example, says – the expenditures and expenditures of the authorities and organisations of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out through a consolidated account of the Republic of Serbia's vault, which will carry out the control of these expenditures and expenditures, in relation to the determined appraisals and approve payments on the burden of budget funds. We don't mind that the sentence reads exactly as it stands, except that we propose one supplement and, in the explanation, we have, respected Minister Vujovic, stated that this supplement we consider should stand here for precision. We believe that in front of the term “expension, ” the word“ all. ” So, all the expenditures and expenses of the authorities and organisations of the Republic of Serbia, so that it doesn't happen, which, I say, is a part of some of our practice here, that someone might exempt some kind of expenditure that is estimated not to be so important, how important is this kind of law adopted by our Assembly. Now, please, just tell me if that's acceptable, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vujovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18457	Thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Snezana Malovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18458	Thank you. President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Ministers, we have provided for the removal of Article 25 because it is being said that the Government will handle the timetable and use of the funding for the implementation of the National Investment Plan projects, which will be brought forward on a proposal from the Minister who is doing the work of the state administration, which concerns the National Investment Plan and the implementation of the initial projects of the National Investment Plan until their completion. We think it is very bad that the Government, by means of a subsequent regulation, distributes a billion and 313.5 million dinars, if I have calculated correctly, is in positions 551 in the draft project budget, as it says in the explanation for the rejection of this amendment, which have already begun. So it's very well known which projects are started and we don't see why these projects are not exactly listed in the budget and how much for each project to finish it is determined. So this makes another contribution that this budget is not transparent to the end, because you could have without any problem for projects that have already started, as you say, to clearly indicate how much will be spent in 2015, and not to leave it to the government's subsequent decision with some act on the use of funds from this appropriation. So this is saying that this budget isn't as transparent as you claim. I found you a billion and... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18459	Thank you, time. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18460	President, I think it's safe, and you, if you're objective, will admit that the public of work has been compromised. So, we're working behind midnight and certainly what's basic, that citizens can hear about the basic act that's being passed...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18461	We're being transferred. I checked that out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18462	Yeah, it's the ones that don't sleep. That's right. However, we have tomorrow and a session of the government's issues, you know, so it might be useful to continue tomorrow morning, and then to continue with the government's session, to have some continuity and to make the public more direct. When it comes to this 2nd position, which I have proposed to abandon, it gives too many discretionary rights to the Minister for the Making available to budget funds, as it says here: "The Ministry of Economy can deploy, or transfer to another direct budget user for the implementation of the initial projects of the National Investment Plan... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Do you know what might happen? It may happen as with the Žeželjev bridge that one project stands, stands and stands because the government is not in the interest that Novi Sad has another bridge or that Vojvodina has another bridge or Serbia, it is a national bridge, and that someone thinks that those funds are transferred to someone else because there may be someone in power who looks like him. In that sense, I believe that this is a discretionary right in a situation where the country is very dangerous, because it has proved very negative if the clear law does not determine how the funds are used.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18463	Thank you. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18464	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, Honored Guests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Honored Guests of Our Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, National MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 25. We have suggested that one part of this member's last attitude be deleted, and it is really important for me to rely in some way on what Mr. Vesenovic was talking about, and before that, Mr. Djurisic. Dear gentlemen, it seems to us that, above all, that the item 4, and then attitude 5, is a little vague, directs all of us towards the provision of arbitration as an option regarding the allocation of some funds or the management of some funds. What's important, gentlemen? When it comes to things that are related to the Budget Law, and we've already seen it on the basis of Article 99. The constitution of our country as important as a special law, then in that law it takes as little as possible to be left to any kind of arbitration. On the contrary, we must put in place terrible procedures, not only that, but the veracity of how these funds are used. What was unclear to us here, so we put it through one amendment is, says the funds of Article 4 are transferred to investors – churches and religious communities. I then understood that churches and religious communities are investors who are being transferred to some means and then nothing, and especially with regard to the previous position, is clear. That is why we have proposed an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18465	Thank you. National MPs Dr Sulejma Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new Article 25a be added after article 25a. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Sabine Dazdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18466	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this amendment obliges users of budget funds to fund planned for the construction of infrastructure, power grids and invest in economic development specifically to develop underdeveloped areas, thus enabling faster, even regional development, as well as all the overall development of undeveloped and devastated areas in the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that minorities live in the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia. Also, the highest unemployment rate is right in municipalities where minorities live as a majority population. Serbia as a country in the process of integration into the European Union must work to solve these and similar problems that exist within it. So the state must work on economic revitalisation of all its regions, regardless of who lives in those areas. Also, the adoption of this amendment would allow full implementation of the programme for the return of refugees and displaced Bosniaks from the municipality of Priboj in the period from 1991 to 1999. This programme was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and was carried out in 2012 and 2013. However, the 2015 budget does not foresee any money for this programme. Our amendment provides for the allocation of funds for the completion of this programme in the next 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18467	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18468	I beg you to say that you have given me your word, the Honorable Chairman. I know it's late, but we still have a lot of work to do and please tell me you gave me your word. Dear Presidents, Mr Ministers, fellow Members, this amendment is attached to the amendment to Article 25. We also asked our amendment to delete Article 26, because it further speaks of how the funding from the National Investment Plan for projects that already exist will be determined later this year. I don't understand why discretion is being left behind, why is a functioner now going to decide something? Why is it not clear, transparent, that this government is constantly claiming to work, put into the budget of what exactly in 2015 will money, which are projects from the NIP begin, that Serbian citizens know how one billion and 313.5 million of their money will be spent? This is how suspicion remains, a shadow has been cast on that, a claim on the transparency of this budget, which has never been as it was before, which has never been seen before. If you look at how the funds will be spent, you will see more than 35% of the budget funds spent by a subsequent decision or by a government act, which will determine the timetable and use of funds from certain appraisals. That, I say again, speaks of this budget not being transparent.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18469	The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Byrana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic. The word has a folk MP Marko Djurisic, although it counts for a concerted action.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18470	Your Honor, I don't know if you've advised me as a lawyer now. You know that lawyers are on strike and you're not allowed as a lawyer...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18471	It's a legal term, it doesn't have to be legal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18472	There's no need for legal counseling. I need an even less lawyer in this assembly. I repeat, lawyers are on strike, lawyers are right, so I ask you to back them up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18473	Switch to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18474	How can I miss this opportunity to talk about how the resources of citizens will be spent untransparently again? It's a big asset again. I'm sorry that this budget is the way it is, I haven't been able to add up all the numbers, as far as 511 is, construction facilities within division 38. These are the funds that will be used, according to the amendment's rejection, for reconstruction and management and investment maintenance of the real estate of the Republic of Serbia abroad. So, Minister Dacic and the former prime minister, who is the former government responsible for this poor situation in which he is. We keep hearing that the former government was responsible, the former government until March, or April of this year was Ivica Dacic. Now he is given the freedom to have great resources, based on some of his discretionary decisions, and is constantly talking about how the former government has remanded this country and led us to a beggar stick. I think it's very bad that someone who ran the former government is given such great authority and discretion to manage large funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18475	Time. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18476	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and especially Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, you are now the only lady among the ministers here, and respected guests from different ministries, to correct little Mr Đurisic, not only lawyers on strike, but teachers. Here, I'm here among the teachers, so it's important that we mention them. We have suggested that Article 27 be amended, but I miss this dialogue a little bit now with MPs from other political parties. He may have given in a little bit, since 16 hours today we are constantly discussing the bill here, and that's very interesting, first of all, the opposition. Here, the opposition is trying most to make our laws the best possible. I can't believe there's no MPs being hired right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18477	The letter ‘a’ shall be deleted after the comma. Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18478	That's right. Now I wanted to, Your Honor, get to it. What's our idea? Again, Mr Vujovicu, in the spirit of Serbian. We have one sentence in Article 27 that I'm not reading it all now. He says – the following text follows: "The government brings to the proposal of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate, and on the basis of the initiative of others". This "a" shouldn't stand there, it's a surplus. It also began to be used as part of a speech language, and then it entered the written language, and then my intention was just to try to make this kind of intervention a little more specific and to explain these words and sentences in the Budget Law, so to delete "a". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18479	Thank you. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Snezana Malovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18480	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, we expect, today is the last Thursday of the month, I hope he joins us, too, that we will have a chance. Since July, we haven't been able to ask him any questions according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18481	Article 28 is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18482	Article 28 is deleted, yes. One hundred and fifty million are deleted, as foreseen in this budget, and I found a figure in the meantime, 150 million to spend on realising investment maintenance and real estate management projects, a subsequent decision, in the course of 2015. I think that if we were to have a transparent budget, that this plan of investment maintenance work should have been adopted before the adoption of the budget, that this 150 million would be clearly seen where it would be spent, in what way, then public procurement should be implemented according to these projects and that the money would be spent in accordance with the budget transparently, honestly, without crime and corruption. This way, we can get into a situation where during some rebalancing these funds, because the plan is being put in late, say, and they can't be made public procurement, they can't be spent. Then the government comes to parliament and says -- we save, we save the funds that are now planned for the budget, we don't know what, just broadly, we'll figure out in the course of the year what we're going to spend it on, and then when we don't spend it, we say -- we've saved something. So you're making this budget, and that's why we're against the budget, and that's why we're asking to delete Article 28, as well as Article 27, as well as some of the other members we talked about and the members we're just going to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18483	Time. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18484	Of course the government saved it. The government tried to make sure that unlike those former governments that were so wasteful that they could cross the globe three times for travel expenses, that they had responsible and domestic relations with this budget. That's why we had budget rebalances, that the money we didn't spend, that we saved the citizens of Serbia again, and that we made an effort to show that we were responsible and serious. As for the prime minister, two days ago, the prime minister was here, talking to the MPs all day until midnight. I am pleased that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia shows interest in speaking very often with the MPs. It's a good policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. He will certainly be with the MPs in the future and answer all your questions, as he has so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18485	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18486	The President-in-Office, during the day of the debate, came an amendment that did not go through the legislative procedure, that is, the amendment that came after the deadline provided for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18487	Directly committed injury. You say during the day, and now we're in the second day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18488	We've received a promise from you that by the end of the debate we'll get a notice in which way...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18489	No, it's that we're going to discuss that amendment. About 10 hours ago, we discussed this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18490	You said we'd get a notice by the end of the day...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18491	No, it's that we're going to discuss the amendment. Don't deceive the public. I can't let you deceive the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18492	We asked the service to deliver a copy of a partial book showing if the amendment had arrived on time. We haven't been delivered a copy. Now, we ask you to give us a warrant for the service to deliver a copy. A day ago, we applied for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18493	Ambassador, after the immediate injury, so you were wrong, you weren't looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure in time. Secondly, we discussed the amendment. You've agreed to discuss the amendment. That's what made the amendment indisputable. No injured Rules of Procedure, by no means. We'll vote, of course, if you insist. We'll vote. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Can I help you? You don't have a replica. Where'd the replica come from? What did the minister say to you, not mentioning your name, to your question? No, I don't. I have the right to estimate you don't have a replica. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I did not ask the minister anything. It is best for ministers to remain silent, sit down, and then tell them – you are not answering anything. Then what do they do? Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I just want to clarify. I don’t hear well when someone throws me, without a microphone, without asking for a word. The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic, who gave up attending the session. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Snezana Malovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18494	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Ministers, has also been asked to delete Article 29, which gives the President of the High Council the jurisdiction to transfer funds based on the collection of court fees to court accounts, as well as the transfer of funds made on the basis of court fees from budgets to court sub-accounts, in accordance with specific regulations. We believe that giving these powers to the President of the High Council of the judiciary, without knowing what these are special regulations, is how he will decide where and how much funds go, bad practice. And as we asked, for the transparency of the budget, to delete the article. 27th and 28, we demand that Article 29 be deleted as well. Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you to let me not have to yell. Mr. Chairman... Mr. Chairman... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18495	I hear very well. You don't have to yell.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18496	I can see you didn't hear me until the third time I spoke to you. I ask you, if there are MPs who can't work, to get out of the O.R., not to interfere with other fellow MPs who work hard, here, but at 5:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18497	Mr. Djurisic, you just spoke to me the moment I gave the order to the deputy secretary, and I couldn't stop in half a sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18498	Order to bring you coffee.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18499	The moment I finished, I listened to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18500	So we believe that the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary is not worthy to perform such an important function at all and to have such great powers in terms of budget implementation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18501	Time's up, Mr. Gursich. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18502	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Chairman of Mr Becic, Honored Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Associates from different ministries, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 29. The draft budget law, and I would like to point out this opportunity that this debate would be a convenient opportunity for SNS MPs to make sure that once an amendment is possible, and even when it says so, it is deleted. In Article 29, we do not suggest that it be deleted, but we suggest that one single word abbreviations be used, because it seems more appropriate in the spirit of the Serbian language, and as regards the change of one word in paragraph 3. Here, dear gentlemen, let me read it to you. It's been a little loud all day, but here, I can try a little louder.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18503	Mr Pavicevic, will you allow the minister to declare the amendment? Please, Dr Dusan Vujovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18504	The proposal to replace 'are' with 'are' is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18505	What I'm saying is that citizens know, the rest of the previous governments are some built, but not a monitored facility, so we're left with debts, for that one or two bridges. The rest of the debt for salaries or pensions, the rest of the interest, the broken economy, interest somewhere and 13% on the loans that were taken, as if someone else were going to pay them back from another country, remained a budget deficit, little remains. You know, that's nice when you say, "the rest," and someone else has to pay someone else to solve those problems you left behind. But it will solve this government and those problems, don't worry. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogodovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18506	Minister Vujovic accepted the amendment. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers, I see, Mr. Sertic is smiling here, certainly counting on the adoption of this amendment of the People's MPs of the New Party and I see that it is a great pleasure here. Since the minister has now read what this is about, I also see the minister, who is about to accept our seventh amendment. Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18508	Mr. Pavicevic, allow the minister to respond. (Dusan Vujovic, from the post: Amendment accepted. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18509	The microphone wasn't on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18510	I agree that this amendment will be accepted as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18511	Sustained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18512	I also find that a representative of the government has accepted this amendment. The 31st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Snezana Malovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jovan Markovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Please give me your word.) You kicked me out of the system again. Mr. Djurishic, just the fact that this is the time, I suppose, you're tired, I can accept coming back, since you weren't in the system when I read the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18513	The Honorable Chairman, I was in the system, and you kicked me out of the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18514	That's not true. Please change to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18515	You kicked me out of the system for the second time. No, it's very important that we know who's in the system and who's not in the system and that we discuss this issue and discuss whether this amendment to the government was in the system on the 19th or not. There's a police minister who could have unequivocally determined whether the prime minister's ID card was falsified.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18516	Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 32nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18517	Mr. Becic, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this will also be my last amendment to this law because we have received reinforcements in the form of Dragan Sutanovac, who is ready and ready to move on. In Article 32(2), the distribution of transfers referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be carried out according to the number of residents in units of local self-government. So all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are direct or indirect taxpayers, who fill the budget. In the current redistribution of non-purpose transfers of units of local self-government, it is obvious that funds are provided on the basis of a party key, i.e. SNS and SPS. We must stop, for the simple reason that we have examples of then punishing citizens who do not vote for these two parties or parties in the local elections, such as. In Smederjevska Palanca, someone named Radoslav Milojic Kena, as president of the municipality in front of the DS, and Smederjevska Palanka has been missing for the third month, for example. Public lighting, although it has paid a large part of its debt that has been in existence for 10 years. So we want further distribution of funds to be carried out in accordance with the number of residents of each individual unit of local self-government, not on the basis of discretionary rights or the measure of party heads in Serbia. I hope you will adopt this amendment, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18518	Thank you. Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18519	I remember when the budgets were on the agenda, and so did the Belgrade City budget, which, of course, is necessary to adopt the first republican budget in order to be adopted. So they had large municipalities like Zemun and Voždovac, which together must have 400,000 inhabitants, perhaps more, and were 15 and 17 from behind by the budgets allocated to them, because, behold, miracles, these municipalities were citizens who dared to vote for the SNS. We didn't, of course, complain about the citizens of these municipalities, but we didn't, knowing of course that you had to fight to make these people live better, we tried to help with our own resources to improve the situation in the municipal sense, these municipalities. What is not happening now, today when you look at SNS is in power with its coalition partners in the City of Belgrade. And when you look at the transfer funds and the funds that get the municipalities, the municipalities where our coalition doesn't exercise power, they're highly positioned by the budget that they've been allocated to, and that shows that in this way we look at completely different eyes, we don't look at who's where in power, but where the funds are needed, they're being allocated. I hope it will be good for those who are in opposition today, yes, when, if one day they are in power again, they are in a position to decide, I am not saying that we will welcome it, but if that happens sometime, but this government certainly does not go to political principles when it works but from the principle of the citizens' interest and be assured that it will always be.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18520	Thank you. People's MP Dragan Sutanovac came to the floor. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: about the amendment. ) You can't, Mr. Bozovic already spoke. Let me just give Mr. Bozovic an explanation for Mr. Sutanovac. Your parliamentary group has no more time, and under Article 158(5), only one of the amendment's proposings can explain the amendment. Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Mr. Bozovic, you have no right to a replica. Mr. Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18521	I'm also advocating a member of 106th and 107th. Article 106, because when we have an amendment and we're not talking about the agenda point at all, it would be your turn to intervene, and 107, because here, indeed, in one flagrant way, it violates this Parliament's dignity. I have to apologize to the citizens of Serbia for having to watch this tonight, which is being submitted to the amendments, whether they are or are, or point or point. We showed today by the power of the arguments on how to conduct the discussion, and those who submit such amendments, I only really apologize to the citizens of Serbia for being forced to watch this sort of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18522	Thank you, sir. Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18523	Thank you, Your Honor. I think he's a injured member of 103. Rules of Procedure, which states in paragraph 1. - The MP shall have the right to orally indicate an injury to the president of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and shall be held at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately following the injury done. I, please, spoke by my colleague Bozovic, was answered by Minister Stefanovic, and then you gave the word after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. I can only interpret that you did not hurt the Rules of Procedure, if a colleague felt that what Mr. Stefanovic, the minister, said was an insult to the Rules of Procedure and an insult to the citizens because they had to listen to these things. Because otherwise, you couldn't give him your word, because after Mr Bozovic, Minister Stefanovic spoke. So I ask you to explain whether it was an insult to the citizens that they had to listen to the presentation of Minister Stefanovic, as the previous colleague said, or if you hurt the Rules of Procedure and couldn't give him the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18524	Mr. Djurisic, I, please, understand that Mr. Djukanovic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and said that I hurt the Rules of Procedure and I thought at the moment, perhaps I hurt the Rules of Procedure because I did not give Mr. Bozovic a replica, because I felt that he had no right to reply. On that basis, I had Mr. Djukanovic explain whether I had hurt the Rules of Procedure on that basis. Since I've concluded that I haven't, in the day of the vote, it will come out. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18525	Dear Vice President of the Assembly and chairing this session, I beg you here, I don't know which time to respect article 27. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18526	And which one of you just advertised a member?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18527	Article 103. Don't play that game with me. I already explained to you today that you can't play with me like that. Dear Vice President of the Assembly, I ask that the Rules of Procedure apply to all. If the chairman and other colleagues interrupted me when she chaired the assembly, when she saw that we and then, in her opinion, violated the Rules of Procedure and advertised law in the Rules of Procedure, she turned off the microphone and did not give us the right to speak. You gave your fellow MPs the right to say everything he wanted, everything he thought, and then he insulted the minister. Please let this Rules of Procedure apply equally to everyone. If you see that an MP does not advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, you should interrupt him. Or you can make a deal with the president so that each of us can do it. I can't have one rule that applies to an MP on the other side of this room and another one that applies to us. That's what I've been trying to do every time in the last eight months when I've been reporting for the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, to say the least. No more than that. If the Rules of Procedure are wrong because we keep listening to the president's answers, you change it. As long as this Rules of Procedure is in force, you must respect it. As the country's laws apply, they are not the laws of any party, regardless of which party was in government when laws were passed, but the laws of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18528	Thank you. Mr. Djurisic, do you notice that I did not interrupt you because you were talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure that you think I did. The previous speaker you mentioned explained the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which makes him think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. At the moment I thought he meant why I didn't give Mr. Bozovic the right to a replica, but as you noticed, the previous speaker did not speak like you two minutes to have time to break it. He finished in about 20 seconds and before I could stop him, he finished his exposure. But if he talks another time for two minutes, I'll have time to stop him. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yes, thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18529	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising Article 107. The previous speaker severely injured the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18530	Mr. Veselinović, I believe that Mr. Marko Djurisic did not hurt his Rules of Procedure harshly, since you said the previous speaker, so thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18531	Mr. Chairman, I couldn't... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18532	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18533	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising the Rules of Procedure, Article 108. Definitely to sit in two different halls tonight, definitely two different buildings, definitely two different states. I ask you that when this remark is made how some rights are denied, please ask them which rights? Is it possible to report to the Rules of Procedure? They've reported back thousands of times. Are you straight to the replica? Thousands of times. What was the rarity of the time when they led the parliament. In 2008, 2009, 2010 get the right to a replica, so I was happy if I got it from Mrs. Komic once in six months, for example. It was written in anals if you get the right to replication. Just ask them which rights are denied?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18534	Thank you, Mr. Babic. I'll ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18535	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18536	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18537	I would have been much happier if a few days ago, two days ago, I had seen so many Rules of Procedures and so many hands raised to the protection of parliamentaryism, when they called you cattle, when all fellow MPs were called cattle. But no, it was a song for ears. That was when those rights were fulfilled. It's the protection of democracy. But if someone was offended and injured, I will help you conduct the session, because it is something imputed to someone who spoke before Mr Djukanovic, the only person who has been injured and offended by citizens of Belgrade under the Democratic Party, citizens of Serbia for 12 years, unfortunately, in Vojvodina and all 14 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18538	Thank you, Mr. Babic. Please don't remember for a while. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. Mrs. Comić, do you want a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Gordana Comić, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18539	Thank you. I'd ask for a replica if a fellow MP, not God, had said something negative on this day and night, but he didn't. He's happy, he said. However, I believe that the injured Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, with Article 103, is because you are very precise, and I thank you for that, the two MPs with a warning said that the violation of the Rules of Procedure received a word without abuse when talking about the injury that was done recently in the session of the National Assembly. I don't know if there's any way to explain to us that you can talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure six years ago and that without warning the MP is allowed. On the one hand, I am grateful to you, for in such a way as to violate the Rules of Procedure you prove that one rule applies to one MP, and another rule that applies to other MPs. But it's no good for either of us, nor for the other MPs. What is good is to apply the Rules of Procedure strictly as it writes and that a member of 103, with your permission, is not being abused. I don't want to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I think this is a cause of the incident during work, and it's Christmas night for many who celebrate Christmas on the Gregorian calendar tonight, it's an important and great holiday for many people in Serbia... I ask you to warn the MPs who have spoken to me as I expose, explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure and continue to threaten them with my fingertips. If you think you can do any uncultural gesture, such that I give up on a nonviolent method, you're wrong. It's Christmas for a lot of people in our country tonight. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18540	Mrs. Komic, please, I don't think that was directed at you, but at an MP who was behind you who had some gestures, so it caused a reaction from the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18541	However, not a messenger behind me, nor can anyone. Just apply the Rules of Procedure and it's good for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18542	Thank you. The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18543	A member of 33 is an extremely important member of this law, and it refers to orders to carry out expenditures on the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. In fact, we are witnessing that there has been an apparent accidental spending of funds by the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. We all know that some cameras have been purchased for which we still don't have an indicator, or a police report and a prosecutor's office, and I believe the police minister listens to me very carefully, whether these cameras have been purchased by law or not, whether they were purchased by someone outside the law and they've been making purchases, that they're not working...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18544	Mr. Sutanovac...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18545	I'll explain everything to you. Mr. Becic, I'll explain everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18546	Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18547	Don't ask me any more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18548	So please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18549	This is not a blasphemy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18550	Then I order you, Mr. Sutanovac, to focus on the amendment. If you don't know, I'll read it. The amendment reads - orders for the implementation of expenditures on the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, financed by the Republic of Serbia's budget, are issued jointly by the minister whose division provided funds for these expenditures and by the Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. The warrants are formed on the official site of the competent ministry and the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. I don't see a camera line around here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18551	Read...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18552	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: By Business! Here you go, Mr. Vulin. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Read the explanation. I read the amendment I have in front of me. (Dear Sutanovac, from the city, according to the Rules of Procedure!) Read the explanation! Mr. Sutanovac, I'll give you a warning. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: come on.) How can you not be ashamed? Please... Come on, Becic, let's see that too. I give you a warning, Mr. Sutanovac. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: good for you, you bastard.) (Zoran Babic, from the place: "Who do you say you bastard?" Who are you threatening? (Dragan Šutanovac, from the place: scum. This is talking about you, Mr. Sutanovac. Thank you, I thank you for what you said I was a bastard, Mr. Sutanovac. Thanks again. I also thank you for saying I'm a scumbag. Do you have any other qualifications for the chairman, Mr. Sutanovac? Mr. Vulin has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18553	There's nothing to talk about here. This is a meeting where MPs are told that cattle, scum, garbage are hard. Lucky it's too late, so the citizens may not have heard this. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18554	Minister, please, just don't talk about the work of Parliament. (Alexander Vulin, from the post: This is not the work of parliament. ) Don't judge the work of parliament, please. You are the executive authority, I must defend Parliament. So you're defending this cattle, bastard... Minister, please don't comment on the work of MPs, ministers can't do it that way. This is Parliament and I will defend parliament whatever it is. (Alexander Vulin: Defend him from the words of the cattle, you bastard? I'm defending him. Really, Minister, please don't do this. I know why I'm saying it. I know very well why I'm saying it. So obstruction is something that's allowed, but no one's going to get into that trap. So I don't want to fall into that trap, we'll work on it. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Honored Associates of the different ministries of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 33, and here I would like to make a note to Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic first and then to point out what we believe should change. Namely, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic you may have missed, but we have suggested that in this remote side when it comes to subsidies to reduce subsidies to the economy, to reduce subsidies to the railways. If some money should already go somewhere to go for example for agriculture, and you would have our support, for example, if there were some opportunities to fight over these funds and not just for agriculture, but we felt that this should also go towards culture, one good part and, of course, education should never be abolished. This is where we suggested to the honored gentlemen that one part of Article 33 be amended. In fact, Article 33 writes – orders to carry out expenditure on AP territory, and we think it is much better to have orders to carry out expenditures in the province of Kosovo and Metohija. We were guided by the gentlemen of the formulations in our Constitution in preamble, for example, in this part of our Constitution concerning the territorial arrangement of our country, where whenever Kosovo and Metohija are mentioned, Kosovo and Metohija are not mentioned in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija but in the province, which means in the province of Kosovo and Metohija. We felt that there were good reasons to accept this amendment, Mr Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18556	Thank you. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18557	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the 34th, for speaking highly of the provisions of Article 3. The government can add 100m euros to the debt. We asked that member to be deleted. To be deleted because we believe that if the budget is transparent and foreseeable that all assets and liabilities should be at the beginning of the budget in Article 3 where all credits and all debts are counted, which in this case is an exception. The only thing that is good in this article is that the sum of 100m euros, as it now stands in this article, in the previous budget law and budget rebalance for 2014 was 450m euros, or originally 300m euros, and the rebalancing has increased to 450m euros. So, the good thing is that the sum is decreasing, but we believe that this sum should be zero and that the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia should be clearly planned at the beginning of Article 3 as all other responsibilities are listed, which is to remind citizens of Serbia seven billion euros, as this government will be in charge in 2015. There was no need to leave the possibility of being in charge of this 100 million more. In this year, we had a debt of up to 450m euros. On the basis of that member, we will discuss a further 200m-euro debt later in this debate. So the debt at the end of this year, when we adopt all these laws, will be close to 23 billion euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18558	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18559	There are some amazing numbers here. You know, it's just that this is hard to deny. You know, like this, when you're talking without any resistance to anything, then it's just fascinating. However, I wish we had heard about borrowing a few years ago, so let's say seven, eight, six, ten today would have had a healthier economy. It was normal back then. Then it was done so broadly and domestically, except we have nothing left of it. We've been in debt, but they've left us no new factories, no companies, no jobs, no orderly tax administration, no modernized state administration, no better positions of people in the military, no police, absolutely nothing. And we've been in debt for an hour rather than for a minute and we've got nothing left, and there are still debts that this government has to repay. We were left with a developmental bank of Vojvodina, and we had to return it. We have remained in the legacy of restructuring companies and as they are now called since 2007, loss-making companies that are so skilled in governance have been led to the fact that they can no longer pay for it. So this government's gonna have to solve it, too. That's how we owed ourselves, and that's how Serbia was destroyed, but unfortunately it fell on the shoulders of this government. This government has responsibility, it has power. I thank the majority of MPs who support this work and who are persistently and patiently suffering many of the things that are happening, including here and who will support that this government be successful, not because of us, but because of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18560	Thank you. On the 35th Amendment in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Gordana Komic submitted together Please, you have no right to a replica. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: Please, replica.]] On the 35th amendment in the same text, the MPs Gordana Comić and Vesna Martinović and together MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic submitted. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18561	Dear President, we've proposed that a member of the 35th be deleted. Article 35 speaks of the fact that if the income of a mandatory social security organisation on the basis of a contribution to compulsory social security is made at lower amounts than those set out in their 2015 financial plans, the Management Boards will adjust the expenditures and expenditures to their decisions to which the Government has agreed to adjust the expenditures and expenditures to a reduction of revenues except for social insurance expenditure. We think that if this member remains in the law, he gives alibis to mandatory social insurance organisations to take irresponsible approaches to the adoption of their financial plans, because they are left with the possibility of changing it with their decisions, their financial plans on the basis of which consent is given by the Government, not the Assembly. With this budget, we also adopt the financial plans of the PIO Fund, the Health Fund. The National Assembly is the one who has to give consent, not the Government just because someone had a bad plan and didn't realize what he was planning. If this stance remains in the law, I am afraid that we will have the irresponsible work of the boards of directors who adopt these financial plans, which should be adopted by the Assembly, but that they will refer to this government as they do. Unlike those of us who owed the country 40 euros per second, this government now owes eight euros per second. There are bridges behind our duties, there are other factories.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18562	The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18563	Article 35 of the original draft amending the Budget Act reads – if in 2015 the income of a mandatory social security organisation is made on the basis of contributions to compulsory social security is made in smaller amounts than the amounts set out in their financial plans for 2015, the Management Boards, to which the Government gives consent, shall adjust expenditures and expenditures to reduced revenues, except for expenditure on social insurance. Why would I suggest that this member be deleted? First, I have already deleted the word “if” in one of the members of the Budget Law. Secondly, I understand why such a member survives, but one must begin the conversation that such a member must not exist in the budget. The social compulsory insurance organisation shall draw up their plans. I know exactly the problem both the finance minister and the health minister have. Either way, I'm on the side of the finance minister and the health minister, whoever it is. Now, in the Budget Law we say – you plan your own income. You've made less income and we're giving you the legal authority to schedule your boards for themselves less expenses, except for social security. If 2016, with a strategy for 2015, 2016 and 2017 we welcome and leave a member like this, many of the efforts that are ahead of you and before us all when it comes to fund resources, health insurance, and many of the efforts that are yet to be made will not result. I know you can't accept this to be erased, but one day you're going to have to rebalance it and be part of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18564	Time. Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18565	Article 36 is very important because it speaks about the mass of funds for the account and payment of salaries of employees financed from the budget of local authorities. This law states in Articles 2, 3, 4, 5 that these funds are to be first reduced under the Law on accounts and salaries and earnings that we adopted here in October 2014, which means that the reduction of wages for 10% of all those who receive more than 25,000 dinars, but one thing that is crucial to us – and then 2.5% in accordance with Article 10(1) of this Law. We believe that it should be deleted that it cannot be determined now by the reduction in these 2% before the rationalization plan has been put in place. We also heard from the minister that not all units of local self-government are the problem of extra employees, that there are fewer employees somewhere, that the inadequate structure of employees. If you by this law now reduce the total wage mass by 2.5% you make it difficult to adopt quality rationalization plans. So you're not giving the possibility to change the structure of employees in some local government unit. You do not give the right to create a functional local self-government, and I repeat, it is as important for the state administration to attract new investments, for the economic growth and development of the Republic of Serbia and for the creation of new jobs and for the better life of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18566	National MP Jovan Markovic submitted to the 36th amendment. He's not here. Together, Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic submitted the amendment to Article 37. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18567	Madam President, I have a first question for you, since I am really very interested in whether the MP has the right to read the argument, no matter what it is or does not have the right? A little while ago, I was denied the explanation I had already given when I proposed the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18568	It is your right to use time according to the explanation of your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18569	Yeah, and I got a warning a little while ago, because I was trying to make an explanation that he wrote, I say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18570	It's because of the yelling you got. I was watching. Please, your time is going on inexorably.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18571	Article 37(1) changes and says direct beneficiaries of the budget are obliged to submit monthly reports to the finance ministry. We add, we suggest you accept that these monthly reports are published on the website of the competent ministry with a very clear idea of full transparency in spending these funds. Madam Chairman, no one has ever turned their back on me as chairman as I speak, so it's not right for you to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18572	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18573	Yeah, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18574	Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18575	It'd just be nice to wait till I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18576	I'm sorry, you were silent. I thought it was over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18577	No, you didn't understand. You turned your back on me, so I asked you not to turn your back on me as I speak simply, you don't hear it so well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18578	I thought you were talking to the government, but it's no problem, I'll listen to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18579	No, I was talking to you. Gentlemen Ministers, or ministers who are not here, I think this amendment is very good and I think it allows both you and the citizens of Serbia to have full insight into the resources and how they are spent. Publicizing is always good. If you're hiding something, you won't accept this amendment, and if you want it to be transparent and clear, you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18580	Marko Djurisic, on what grounds? It's together, so you're all on the list, you're out of time. (Marko Djurisic from the post: I just got in touch with article 38. By accident? Now we're going to be 38. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18581	Dear Presidents, honourable government ministers, fellow MPs, this is the latest amendment to the Republic of Serbia's budget, which we have submitted, and he is asking for Article 38. The draft budget law shall be deleted. Why? Because the budget includes budget expenditure projections for 2016 and 2017. Since we did not get a fiscal strategy, and under the budget system law, the government was obliged to deliver the fiscal strategy before the budget law, we cannot know on the basis of which parameters these figures were planned for 2016 and 2017. Since we don't know what parameters, because we didn't get a fiscal strategy, and we had to get it by law, we're asking this member to be deleted, because we don't think we can vote for a member of the law based on incomplete data. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Where is the final budget account? ) I ask the Honorable President to allow me to complete my presentation, to extend and interfere with the speaker in accordance with Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18582	It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure now. Speak according to the amendment. Tajac's in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18583	... to be able to complete this discussion in a dignified manner and in a manner appropriate to the National Assembly when the Republic of Serbia's budget is adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18584	Ambassador, you're not talking about the amendment. You're talking about the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18585	... as the most important document that we can adopt here next to the Constitution, it's certainly this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18586	... If you've wasted your time and you have no idea what more to say, it's okay, thank you. (Zoran Babic, from the post: When you give the final budgets for all these years.) ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Ambassador, don't yell, because you just asked them not to yell. (Marko Djurisic from the post: Since you did not warn him, I believe it is allowed. All right, yell, we'll work. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Please note that we are being disturbed by Marko Djurisic and that he finds it funny what we do. Marko Djurisic from the scene: I'm intruding. Here you go. And Mr. Babic doesn't mind? There you go. You're the only one who's talking. Don't pay attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18587	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Honorable Associates of different ministries, MP Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment and to Article 39, it is quite interesting here in the hall, where we propose that this Budget Act should not take effect the next day from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" but, respected gentlemen, as it is the eighth day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I think it is very important that in a situation where the Government is late sending this bill to us here in the National Assembly, not with a delay of a day, two, but with a delay of a few weeks, that the government must face responsibility for such a kind of action, gentlemen. Who must constantly warn the government that the government must abide by the law, Mr Sertic and the other gentlemen? It's us, the MPs in the National Assembly, to invite all ministers and prime ministers to the principle that I think everyone here knows very well. It's the principle of ethics, the responsibilities of respected gentlemen. To measure the results of our work, so when you don't follow the law to face the consequences of not obeying the law, that is achieved by this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18588	The word is d.o.c. Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18589	The truth is that the government has late sent the budget to the National Assembly, not because it was lazy or because people hated to prepare the budget, but because the negotiations with the IMF really took a long time, and because we wanted to be responsible for the citizens of Serbia, above all to show that responsibility and that this budget really was in line with all the IMF recommendations, which they eventually eventually acknowledged that this budget is really something that leads Serbia forward. At the same time, MPs know this institute that the National Assembly can especially decide that some law should take effect earlier than the day of its publication on the eighth day of publication, and the National Assembly is the one who has the power to decide. Let me say that this bill allows Members of Parliament to decide whether it will be, and I think it is in the citizens' interest that the budget enters into force as soon as possible. I don't want it to be like in some previous times we have temporary funding, I'd rather funding is done in accordance with the budget that this very National Assembly will bring.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18590	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Moving to the next point. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Marija Obradovic on the bill. You have received the report of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected the amendment of the National MP, Marija Obradovic, to which a new Article 2a is added after Article 2a. According to Article 163(4), point 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Honorable Associates of various ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the People's Sent by Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted, right here to say, amendments to all three members of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, and this time we returned to the well-known methodology that we applied several times here. We think all these members should be deleted. Why does all these members need to be deleted? There's a few reasons, and here's one to say. Here it is often used as an argument by the assembly majority and also by a representative of the government that the IMF has said something, that the IMF has praised something, and when we are, for example. We call for one assessment of possible growth of only 0.5% or GDP decline next year then it says the IMF is you know a little conservative, it'll be a little bit more. So wait, gentlemen, are we going to use the IMF's assessment argument one way or another? We can't go either way, but we have to define ourselves on one side. We believe that our reaction to this bill is only appropriate, since in the reasons for the adoption of this law, the legislator of the law returns to justify the reduction of pensions, which we have found here unconstitutional, and now it is confirmed that the pensioners, here we are being called here saying that no solutions are received about the reduction of pensions, respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18592	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Do you want a word? The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the respected ministers, are now as far as I see three men, Sertic, Vulin and Vujovic and very patient fellows of different ministries who are here all day long, every honor to you, the right to tell you, and I am here with you, the dialogue lasts, here now, 17 hours. We believe that Article 2, which reads like this – after Article 80a, is added to Article 80b, and then we have a special member of 80b and an exceptional member of the 80th of this law, during the application of the Law on the provisional arrangement of pension payment methods, so now we have the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, the number and that, pensions can only be increased in accordance with the law governing the budgetary system and the law governing the budget. We believe that this member of this bill, gentlemen, should be deleted. We, here to supplement here now, because I did not call for this in the previous address, we have prepared one very precise explanation where it writes – since the proposed changes and we call for little now and for the reasons for the adoption of this law sent by the Government, since the proposed amendments and additions to the rules on the budgetary system by our court will not be achieved by all those objectives that have been announced, the stability of public finances, etc., we do not consider it necessary to align the provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act with the proposed amendments to the rules on the budget system. We are bound, of course, by the argument we have made and by Article 1 of this proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance and I call on Members of Parliament, as the Government does not seem to accept it, to vote in favour of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18594	Thank you. The People's MPs Gordana Komic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18595	Thank you. The member to whom I propose an amendment reads that exclusively from Article 80 of this Act, during the application of the Law on the Temporary Regulation on how pensions are paid, pensions can only be increased in accordance with the law governing the budgetary system and the Law governing the budget. Unfortunately, we cannot intervene with the amendment here to the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions are paid, and that title is completely inappropriate because it was removed from that law by the Parliament's decision on the deadline in which the pensions will be calculated in that regulation defined way. If there's no deadline, then it can't be temporary, but what's there. What I would like to be accepted is to give up the expression that is in the proposal, which is to be in accordance with the law governing the budgetary system and the law governing the budget. The law governing the budgetary system is called in accordance with the Budget System Act. The law governing the budget is called the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. I often have amendments that try to lower the language of our laws to what they are unequivocally meant to be, and I ask you to accept this amendment because it is in the interest of very soon the adoption of the law, when we will have to choose more carefully the way in which we form expressions, quote or leave the members of the law completely unequivocal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18596	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected National Assembly presidents, respected Ministers Sertic, Vulin and Vujovic and respected associates from different ministries, behold, Mr Omerovic now reminded me and I am asking the National Assembly president to notify, if possible, MP Zoran Zivkovic of the term of voting for these draft laws so that MP Zoran Zivkovic could attend the vote and perform his duties and his right as a national MP. I am now speaking here, first of all, to Mr Sertić, since it seems to me that there is still some freshness and opportunity to adopt this amendment to Article 3. The draft law amending the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, because Mr Vujovic, I think, has fulfilled the quota, there is no longer any chance, and Mr Vulin does not show at all any chance of adopting any, but Mr Sertic, I see, there is a chance. So, Article 3 states: "This law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and that would be an absolutely acceptable coin for us, that would be appropriate, to say, here and the procedure that, honourable Mr Sertic, there were not all those arguments that I have cited here for the non-compliance of these amendments, and when I spoke of Article 1 and Article 2. For example, here it says, the reasons for the adoption of this law stems from the need to comply with the provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act with the provisions on the budgetary system. I'm here, I mean, I managed to show how this shouldn't happen, so please tell me, you tell me if you accept this amendment, here, Mr Sertic, for example, right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18598	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the BUDGETS SYSTEM You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićevic, Ivan Jovanovic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Marija Obradović, Dubravka Filipovski and Aida Ćorović. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinions on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic jointly submitted the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18599	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers of the Government, I see the party ministers have left, but the other ministers...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18600	What kind of ministers did you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18601	Foreign ministers, who are party members, and others are ministers who are experts in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18602	You're wrong, but I'll explain later.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18603	Mr Vujovic, you don't even have to give an answer now, nor do I ask you to accept the amendment. I see your position in the government. We have paid considerable attention to this amendment. We were talking about the principle of fiscal responsibility of the government. We developed this principle of fiscal responsibility in which we proposed that the ministry report six months to the Government on fiscal efficiency, the percentage of the collection of fiscal liabilities, the territorial collection of fiscal liabilities, the collection of goods by type and that the government discuss it, and that the report, after that, should be forwarded to the Finance Committee. I'd like Mr. Arsic to come forward on that matter. In this way, special attention would be paid to what we are talking about today, which is that insufficient funds have been collected and entered into the budget and that is why we do not have the funds for professors, doctors, cops, soldiers, etc. And no one's responsible, no one's head hair is missing because some people don't pay taxes, and we don't even know what the structure of that unpaid tax is, and what measures we need to do to increase that efficiency...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18604	Yeah, we'll get it from the second amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Marija Obradovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Aida Ćorovic together submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18605	This is also a very important amendment. Since 1.1, all health institutions have lost their own income. So, health institutions like some spas, some other institutions whose own income is up to 60%-70%, will lose their own incomes and will question their own performance, health work. It is similar with some health homes, which, for example, pay some primary protection, dentists, and some other specialists for which they do not receive compensation from the budget. Mr Vujovicu, please give me an answer to this question – is it true that the health institutions of 1.1 will lose their own incomes and thus compromise primary activity? The state did not provide an alternative for these revenues. So since 1.1, they won't be able to pay off some workers and they won't be able to finance some of the work. Some will be on the verge of bankruptcy. So, did you talk to the health institutions, did you talk to the health minister, and did this happen?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18606	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18607	That claim was conditional. So, on 1 January 2015, if technical conditions are created, that's settled by the laws of many years ago. We haven't changed that since we checked, there are no technical conditions. Therefore, it will not be applied in 2015. We talked to both the minister and everyone else. When technical conditions are created, we will probably address the Assembly, probably next year in the 2016 Budget Law, and talk about it before and before consulting. Thank you for your warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18608	Thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to agenda number five. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Branko Karavidić, as well as the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted the amendment to Article 3. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blagoje Bradic, Branka Karavidić and Biljana Hasanovic Korać. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18609	Thank you. We wanted, to say, to help the government stop the practice of the laws that are adopted in the Assembly coming into effect the next day from the day of the publication in the "Official Messenger", primarily motivated by the Government's response when we proposed that another law enter into force instead of six months after the adoption, or after the publication in the "Official Messenger". Then the government answered us – the government does not accept the amendment because it is necessary to provide assumptions for full implementation of the law, as well as for the public to be informed of the content of the law and that economic operators, i.e. legal persons and entrepreneurs, or the lovely bodies of preparation for the obligations laid down by the law. We believe it is very important for this to be fulfilled and that everyone has enough time to get to know the laws, not that we should adopt this law today around four or five in the morning, that it should come out during the day in the "Official Messenger" and start to apply from the next day. In particular, regarding this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, which speaks of now being submitted on the last day of the month for the period from 1st to 15th of the month for the period from 16th to the end after the new amendments to the application. So, the first application will only be filed on January 31st for the period from January 1st to 15th. There is no reason that if the law is in the Official Messenger on January 25th and enters into force on January 3rd, anyone will be damaged, including the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Let's respect that eight-day deadline. I've given an explanation that you've adopted as Minister of Government under another law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18610	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to agenda number six. You have received an amendment submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasnaović Korać, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18611	I'll have to do it again, because you're breaking the Constitution again and you're passing laws that take effect within eight days, as prescribed by the Constitution, except in exceptional cases. Neither does this law, no matter how close January 1st, has reason to come into force immediately. This law refers to the fact that VAT on peret-access funds with the IPA funds and the IPA funds will not be paid for all purchases, no matter how much IPA funds are financed, and how much of the funds of the Republic of Serbia, because it is impossible to separate those funds, since we have committed to international contracts not to pay VAT on these funds, we are now abolishing VAT payment at all. Unfortunately, we could not talk much about whether or not the Serbian budget will be damaged, which some of the funds of the Republic of Serbia will be spent and will not be paid VAT. What is important is that I repeat, there is no reason for this law to enter into force the next day after the publication in “The Official Messenger. ” We have not submitted such an amendment to the budget, because we know that it is a document that must be published and that it must enter into force by 1 January. We're aware of that. But we do not see the reason for this law, because VAT will certainly not be charged until January 5th, as it will not work in the Republic of Serbia until then. We see no reason not to obey the Constitution and the deadline and that this law enters into force within eight days.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18612	Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're going to the 7th agenda. You have received an amendment submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18613	Thank you. The amendment also states that the law should not enter into force the next day from the day of its adoption, i.e. from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger", but from eight days. We do not see any reason why the Government did not accept this amendment, especially if we look at the argument, which says that the new law laying down the tax procedure and the tax administration, which stipulates the submission of the application for a corporate tax exclusively in electronic form, begins from 1 April 2015. This gain will not be reported until April 1st. We see no reason why this law must take effect the next day from the day of its publication in “The Official Messenger, ” not eight days. I will remind you once again what you have adopted in the Government and why it is important for the laws to be notified to the public at least eight days before the entry into force, which is because it is necessary to provide assumptions for the full implementation of the law, and to inform the public about the content of the law and that economic operators, i.e. legal entities and entrepreneurs, or state bodies, are preparing for their obligations. That's what you adopted at the government. I don't know why it can only apply when the opposition is asking for a deadline to be cut, and when we ask that the constitutional deadline of eight days be respected, you refuse and do not respect these arguments, which obviously only apply when you are proposing some deadlines under the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18614	Since we've completed the amendment's search, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the eighth point of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Ivan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Šutanovac, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Marko Đurisić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdan Bogdanović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaže Bradić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Wait a minute, let's change.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18615	On the 1st amendment, the MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vučković, Ivan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Šutanovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović and Aida Ćorović and joint MPs Marko Đurišić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdan Bogdanović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blažje Bradić. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18616	I hope at least we can discuss these amendments in a slightly better atmosphere. Gentlemen, there were two earthquakes in Serbia today. One was in the vicinity of Nis, the other was on the Kopalnik. Today, Pajtic and I were in Nis, so you know, but it's not our fault, so don't accidentally accuse us of this problem, but I'm alluding to you, finance ministers, to accept amendments that concern raising the budget to the Emergency Sector that we've given, because we never know what can happen to us. The amendment to the law on the return of the seized property and the compensation refers precisely to the fact that we do not agree that the Government is given the opportunity to move the deadlines for the enforcement of the laws adopted earlier. The government boasts that it is very effective, as all problems in Serbia solve, as it reduces the deficit, increases revenues, etc., then we see no reason why Serbian citizens who have waited two, three, four or five years in the process of restitution, and why you would be passing that burden on to a future government that will come, I hope very quickly. Therefore, by amendment to Article 1 we propose that it be deleted. All the other amendments I'm going to explain have the same explanation. I understand that you haven't done your part of the job, but the citizens of Serbia need to know why you didn't. In the law that you have proposed, in the amendments and additions to the law and in the explanation, there is nothing clear that could suggest that you tried to be more efficient. Unfortunately, you're not, and that's something we think has to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18617	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together... (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: he answered the word. ) Mr. Djurishic, I've already looked off the screen of the amendment and I haven't seen you answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18618	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Assembly. We have also submitted an amendment to Article 1 and we ask that this article be deleted. We feel it is completely irresponsible that the government is moving several days before the deadline that exists in the current law, which is on 1 January, introducing a new deadline that practically requires the state to move by three years, on 15 December 2017. So, the Law, which was in force before these amendments, provided for a two-year deadline for applying, which expired in March 2013. In this respect, a sufficient period has been left, from March 2013 to the end of 2014, to establish the compensation coefficient and make the necessary solutions. So almost two years have been left to determine the coefficient and make the necessary solutions. Unfortunately, in those two years, this government, or a slightly changed government but supported by the same political parties, has done nothing on the law. And now, four or five days before she was legally required to fulfil certain obligations, she remembered, sent the law to the Assembly, and it's all pro-longing for another three years. We think it's irresponsible. Serbian citizens, a number of Serbian citizens waiting to get a solution, waiting to receive a refund of funds where property cannot be returned in natural form, the team is counting on it, perhaps taking a loan somewhere, taking some commitments, now moving everything in three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18619	Thank you. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vučković, Ivan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Šutanovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović and Aida Ćorović and joint MPs Marko Đurić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blažje Bradić. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18620	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable members of the Government, respected citizens, Article 2 is deleted, and we have given the reason that the proposed amendment considers that the Government has had enough time to coordinate the coefficients and that no extension of the deadlines for the application of Article 30 of the current regulation is required. In fact, we believe that the new law will not improve legislative solutions, in fact new changes and additions, particularly from the point of view of respect for the principle of return of property priorities in natural form, as well as respect for the European Parliament's resolution. The selective fulfillment of the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the European Commission, which will surely reach Serbia, gives one complete indecision when it comes to reform and under this law, and we have also talked about it under previous laws, that the reform capacity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is very low, that Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia obviously do not have enough personnel and within the frameworks of the ministries, which is also confirmed by Nebojsa Stefanovic, who can tackle the biggest challenges and reforms needed by this country and citizens living in it. The law will cause dissatisfaction with those who expect much from him and we think that this legal solution is very bad from the point of view of amending and supplementing this law and we think that many things can be done much better and much different. I think it is important, at this point, to boldly step forward with the things proposed by those from the European Commission, the European Council, and the selective application of these recommendations will not lead Serbia into EU membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18621	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18622	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, we also suggested that Article 2 be deleted. Article 2 of your proposal for a law suggests that the three-year term should now be replaced by five years in Article 31(2) and (5). You wrote in your explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the extension of the deadline for the determination of the coefficient is necessary for another two years, in order to reliably determine the total basis of the compensation on which the government should determine the compensation coefficient. For the reasons that the maximum number of claims for the return of the seized property was filed in 2014, as well as for the large number of claims filed by the Administrative Court, and in relation to these requirements, until the end of the administrative dispute, there is no certainty whether the immovableity will return to nature or be the subject of compensation. The problem with this whole law is that we, Mr. Minister, didn't say a single word about it in the principle debate. There was simply no time because we discussed 12 laws together, among other things, on the rebalancing for 2014 and the budget law for 2015. If we had a normal discussion, you might have been able to tell us what the situation is and why you've identified yourself for these solutions. This is not how you respond to our amendments, and citizens do not know why the government has defined itself to extend the deadlines that should have met the obligations of citizens who, according to the law on restitution, are said in this daily language, and who expected to now receive bonds or material assets, are now being extended to them in two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18623	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr Blaže Bradic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18624	So, in Article 3, he re-moves some deadlines, December 31, 2014 which, for me, seems six days, replaces with the words of June 30, 2017, which is two and a half years from now. Then, in Section 5, the term “15 years” is replaced by the words “12 years”, and the words “2015”. The year" is replaced by the words "15. In accordance with Article 2(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. “2018” is replaced by “2018”. the year." You have rejected our amendment by reason of the fact that it is necessary to move the deadlines for establishing the basic elements of the bond, the amount of the emission and the beginning of the maturity of the bonds for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments, so the names to Article 2 are listed. I call you again to say, at least in two minutes, how much you have under this amendment, or by any amendment, to the remaining three members of this law, a few sentences about this law, so that citizens who expect this state to fulfil their obligations, know when and how they can make those commitments come true. I'm sorry we haven't had time in the principle debate, but here's the debate in particular, I doubt anyone's watching, but it's probably going to convey what a number of citizens are interested in, and that's when and in what way, how this government sees it, they're going to be able to exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18625	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Šutanovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marijanović and Aida Ćorović. The word is Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18626	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, we have proposed this amendment to be deleted in Articles 1 and 3. Paragraph 1 shall regulate the position of Article 35(4). The law, which says – the basic elements of bonds and that emissions through distribution and bond collection conditions will be regulated by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance Affairs, no later than, as you suggest, on 30 June 2017, or re-routing the deadlines by three years, as well as in the position of the 5th of this law. This is not the first time, but it becomes a practice for amendments and additions to a law to move deadlines originally set by some other law. Since the base here is on the elemental bonds, and that emissions through the conditions of bond collection should have been arranged by the government on a proposal from the ministry, we can conclude or that there were not enough people in the ministry. Perhaps as a consequence, as a result of the ban on public sector employment, or there were not enough professional people, or the government and the competent ministry dealt with other jobs such as the reduction of salaries and pensions in the public sector, and perhaps even the people employed in the ministry were demoted by these cuts in wages. We believe that the basic elements of the government bond have long had to prepare, rather than move the deadlines as proposed by the amendments to Article 4. We also believe that there should be no delay in the lawfulness and arrival of the first annual bond wars from 2015 to 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18627	Thank you. Members of the National Assembly Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vučković, Ivan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Šutanovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović and Aida Ćorović and joint MPs Marko Đuriših, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdan Bogdanović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr. Blažje Bradić. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18628	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, before I begin to explain the amendment to Minister Vujovic, I would just like to ask you if there is really no short need for the two ladies sitting in front of you here in the house, since it is 25 to three, and tomorrow is work day again, not to harass anyone without any need. What we wanted to say with this amendment is: delete. For the simple reason that the previous 2013 amendments and additions to this law have just been insisted on this deadline. So we think the government has had more than enough time to keep this deadline from moving. We said that the selectiveness of the law is a problem and doubt in practice will remain unchanged, the proposed solutions in the law will only affect individual citizens. We said other citizens of the restitution users would be denied the right to return property, for example. in nature. In the future, this law will cause multiple costs, above all, for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which will arise following European Court of Human Rights decisions in Strasbourg, which will render judgments in favour of citizens who will complain precisely for the reasons that the amendments and additions have a clear number of shortcomings. In order to fully affect the removal of obstacles to the return of assets in natural form, in accordance with the principle of priority of return of assets in natural form with respect to the European Parliament's Resolution, it is necessary to adopt, from April 2013, amendments relating to the replacement of assets taken from other assets in state ownership of the same market value, wherever possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18629	Thank you. Mr. Djurishic, have you called again? (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: I reported not to fall out of the system.) ) Mr. Djurishic, I beg you when I read the amendment, please report immediately. You weren't in the system, you didn't answer. Since I started reading this amendment, you haven't answered. Here's the deputy secretary who just confirmed it. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18630	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 4 amends Article 37 of the applicable law. Article 37 says -- the Republic of Serbia will pay for the refund and compensation in the former owner's money on the basis of a strong solution and the determination of the amount of compensation of 10% of the determined amount of compensation, based on all the grounds of the former owner. In the case where, instead of the former rightholder referred to in Article 1, his or her legal successors are made, the amount of the advance shall be divided into legal successors, in accordance with their established shares. The amount of the advance from the 1st article's position cannot exceed 10,000 euros, according to the former owner, on all grounds. The amount of the advance payment referred to in Article 1(1) shall be reduced in the form of bonds. Reimbursement under the provisions of this Act shall be determined and paid from 31 March 2015. The government is now coming with a proposal to move the deadline for payment of this deposit for another two years, on 31 March 2017. I told you at the beginning of the amendment debate that we think it's very incorrect. Perhaps some people, counting on the state to pay them this fee of up to 10,000 euros in accordance with the applicable law, may have counted with it, may have been in debt. What position do we now put the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in, when three months before the deadline, when they were to receive the funds, move it to another two years? I think it would be our turn to hear at least a few sentences as to why it is, whether it is also a place where it should be spared and what kind of legal security and message this government is sending to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18631	Thank you. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Ivan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Šutanovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Prof. Dr Dusan Milisavljevic, Vesna Martinović, Aida Marjanović and joint MPs Marko Đurić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdan Bogdanović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić and Dr Blažje Bradić. You've applied on time, Mr. Balsha Bozovic. Please also, Mr Mark Djurisic, if he wants to apply. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18632	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear fellow Members of the People, honourable members of the Government, this Article 5 is deleted. Reason - because we believe that the government had enough time to assess the amount of the compensation base at all applications submitted by March 2015. So by returning state property in the country's nature and local self-government, new sources of income are being obtained, the number of taxpayers in the Republic of Serbia is increasing and has a positive impact on tax policy. This is exactly what we talked about today on the 2015 draft budget, that there is no balanced part of the expenditure compared to the part of the revenue in the budget itself. The substitution of buildings, parts of buildings and building land directly encourages the development of an entrepreneurial spirit, the engagement of restitution users in business activities, the responsibility for the management of their own property and the development of new family small and medium-sized enterprises. All of it, Mr. Sertic, is reviving the Serbian economy, because this is also one of the ways that we can hire some people in some way. The job has run out of 40,000 in the last two years, and we think it's too important because of them, because of trying to even try to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, or start-up loans, or this way without a loan to hire someone and try to influence the development of the economy in Serbia. Otherwise, unless this amendment is adopted, we will make it impossible for many citizens to reach small and medium-sized enterprises at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18633	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18634	Thank you, Your Honor. Ministers, Article 5 speaks of a three-year period which the Agency is obliged to deliver to the Government through the Ministry of Finance's department to assess the total amount of compensation based on the applications submitted, and now the law provides for five years. So, for another two years, it gives the Agency two more years to finish this job, with an explanation that so far it has not been possible to do so because of a large number of cases and reports filed in the late hours. We don't think that's appropriate. We also talked to my colleague Bozovic and I about the good things that this law would do, as it is now, and not the way you want to change it, what good it would do both for the citizens of Serbia and for the economy of the Republic of Serbia. In this sense, almost cynicalally, the reasoning in the reasoning of this law, the assessment of the financial resources for law enforcement, when the government says, is not necessary to implement this law in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course not. Instead of the funds that exist, which must exist in the budget because the state has committed itself to certain obligations, we are now postponing for a future and then saying that this law does not involve new funds. Well, of course it doesn't. But what kind of message do we send if we postpone our obligations, which we took a few days before we had to implement them, for a new period of time? This is the legal uncertainty investors see in Serbia. That is why we are 78th place, the worst place in the region under conditions for investment and economic growth.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18635	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Mr. Bozovic, aren't you following this amendment? (Balsa Bozovic, from town: How? ) Well, nice, just Mr. Djurisic and a group of MPs from his party. Maybe next. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18636	We asked this member, as well as all the previous five members, to delete. We simply believe that this law should not exist in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, that it does not bring stability and predictability, but introduces uncertainty and that it will have much worse consequences for the legal and economic system of the Republic of Serbia, but will benefit only because some of the obligations of the Serbian state are delayed by two or three years. In particular, I believe that the fear of those citizens who expected this law to go on, or to continue to apply it as it is now, is that in the future someone twenty and I do not know which, during December 2016, through the night, will come to the Assembly to amend and supplement the law and to postpone the application of this law and the compensation of citizens. I call on you not to adopt such a law, not to allow the legal system of the Republic of Serbia to collapse, to bring legal uncertainty and unpredictability, and to do everything that is declared a government policy, which is that we will do everything that will attract foreign investors, new investors, to create new jobs, to make a better life for citizens, a greater standard. These are the laws we don't do. We're doing exactly the opposite. That is why I call on you fellow MPs not to support this law in the voting day and to vote in favour of all our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18637	Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Ivan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Šutanovic, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović and Aida Ćorović together. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18638	Thank you, Mr. Becic. This is definitely our last amendment tonight. I'd like a round of applause for the end. In Article 6, this law shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". What there is no need for is a haste with effect and this constitutional framework of the law, effective on the eighth day of the day of publication in "The Official Messenger", is not quite appropriate. What is definitely an explanation is that this law will cause dissatisfaction of citizens primarily because of selective application, selective character and at the end of discrimination and cause numerous complaints from citizens to European human rights institutions, and ultimately the budget of the Republic of Serbia will bear the costs, i.e. citizens who fill that budget. This law deprives other citizens, users of restitution of the right to work and the right to self-employment and thus prevents the economic development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Speaking of labour rights and self-employment, here, Minister Vulin has not survived this pace that the MPs are working on. It is my fault that he did not remain at the end of the amendment debate, I am quite sure that the prime minister is looking at this in direct transmission, and thus towards the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia provides protection of freedom and the rights of all citizens without selective discrimination. In that sense, we think that this legal solution is very bad, that the reform character of the government is not confirmed, that as in the other 11 laws that we discussed today and the other day. The government of the Republic of Serbia is unprepared to step decisively and courageously into reforms. Therefore, dear gentlemen, in 2015, the end of this government was defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18639	Mr Bozovicu, purely for the sake of the public, since you mentioned Mr Vulin, Minister Vulin was not authorized under this law, only under the Budget Law, and this is the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Return of Retracted Assets and Compensation, so that Mr Vulin could not explain this law. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18640	This amendment is trying to correct what is the pain of this parliament, the pains of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the intransparency and the adoption of laws by emergency procedure, which means most often they arrive 24 hours before their debate and unfortunately take effect on the day of publication in "The Official Messenger".
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18641	I ask the MPs to allow Mr. Veselinovic to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18642	So we have one very serious law. The law on the return of the seized property has arrived by emergency procedure, those to whom the law applies, to those who were once deprived of those assets did not have the opportunity to get to know him, not only that, but here we are now at three o'clock, and tomorrow probably at three o'clock this law will come into force. This is what is taking away Parliament's transparency, what is taking away the belief that the adoption of the law on those to whom it applies will not come overnight and what unfortunately the foreigners do not trust us, because it is not clear to them that a law within 48 hours can be, to come to the Assembly, to be discussed and to enter into force. There's really no place to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18643	Thank you, Mr. Veselinović. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th point of the agenda – the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Encouragements and RURAL Development You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Marko Djurisić and Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blažje Bradić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Zoltan Pek and Ana Marija Vicek. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Mr. Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18644	Here, I'm at three o'clock in the morning to talk to Minister Bogosavljevic if she wants to give me an answer to two questions. First of all, Madam Minister, it seems to me that two days ago you said, if I remember correctly when you were sitting there, that the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture was not reduced. The Ministry of Agriculture's budget has been seriously reduced and it is clear through the Budgetary System Act that it is seriously endangered. Earlier on the Law on the Budgetary System, Mr Vujovic also knows, that incentives in agriculture stand out at least 5% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and now says in the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development that the Ministry of Agriculture should be at least 5% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't have an exact calculation of what that difference is. This difference must be huge, because the difference between the incentives and the budgets of the Ministry of Agriculture are also the salaries of farm workers and the salaries of inspectors and travel expenses and other costs, which means that our agriculture, our basic economic activity, will be compromised in the coming period and farmers will suffer the burden of the incompetent Government of the Republic of Serbia. That it will suffer the consequences of incompetence and inability to answer the challenges of this time, which is only going towards budget cuts.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18645	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18646	In the previous days, I spoke very much about the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, and tonight I said that the total amount of funds identified by our ministry in this year is higher than in 2015. That is, the planned budget has been reduced compared to this year's budget. You've probably mixed up the absolute and relative terms that I may have used in the absolute amount is reduced, but in relative terms these reductions are not so. We said clearly that the amendments to the Encouragement Act, the changes that concern a small percentage of agricultural landowners. So, about 5% of the agricultural holdings will be kind of denied for the funds they've received so far. Ninety-five percent of the owners will receive the same as before, however, we have in mind the fiscal policy that this government is implementing in certain, or in all areas in the coming period, especially in those areas that support policy implement through subsidies. It is normal and justified that the burden of such fiscal policy, i.e. fiscal consolidation, is borne by all the beneficiaries of the subsidies. Therefore, the beneficiaries of the subsidies in agriculture as well. So the amendments to the law are about only one part of the law and one small percentage of the users that we've provided in some other ways with the possibility that now this part that they're not going to get, they're getting in the next period. Therefore, five percent is a minimum, so the participation of the Ministry of Agriculture and the environment budget in the national budget in 2015 is more than five percent, if we want to count exactly, and we expect that, after the austerity and fiscal consolidation measures in 20163 and 2017, it will be even higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18647	Thank you. Professor Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 4th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18648	I didn't answer for a line, but I'm only going to say one sentence here. So, the minister is very clear, the budgetary framework for the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. for incentives, has been reduced. The numbers are now current figures, that is the question, but the budgetary framework is reduced and anyone can reduce the nominal amount in the next period. When it comes to the amendment to Article 4, I do not understand what the reduction and reduction of transparency is about when it comes to so-called. Green book. It was earlier that the ministry had published the Green Paper, reports on the state of agriculture in the Official Messenger, and now published it on its website. Why, why did she choose such a thing, and why could she not stay in the Official Messenger and on the site? How often do farmers visit the site? In this way, however, we would also receive a document that could be read by those who do not have a website, and you will admit that all farmers in Serbia do not have a website, or have no internet to access the site.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18649	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18650	It is precisely that the data would be more accessible to farmers and not only to them, but also to the professional public and citizens of Serbia, because we considered it justified that these data be published on the site of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, convinced that this site, however, is more accessible to citizens, but I am the Official Messenger, whom you will recognize, a smaller number of citizens, and even those who are in the profession and science, consult with the Ministry's website.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18651	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. No one wants a word. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18652	With this amendment, you have taken away certain powers of the AP Vojvodina and local self-government. Namely, you have disabled Madam Minister of Local Self-Government and AP Vojvodina from subsidizing interest on loans for the purchase of cattle, livestock machinery, agricultural machinery purchases, repromaterials, veterinary costs. It is not clear to me, if you know that in European countries local self-government, regional self-government, district or county, they are very actively involved in helping their farmers and I do not understand why you took away the law or the Municipality of Sombor, Kovin, the possibility of participating in subsidising credit for the purchase of repromation of cattle. Why did you take this right away from the AP Vojvodina, if agriculture is a fundamental activity? I don't understand why you're centralizing, which is why you're shutting down entirely local self-governments in a position to create their own policy in the area of agriculture in their area.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18653	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18654	You obviously didn't read all the comments on our amendments, because your amendment wasn't accepted because it was a technical mistake. You have suggested that Article 13 be deleted, and in your explanation, you state an argument that actually concerns Article 5. What you have just said is contained in the amendment of the Group of MPs, the SVM parliamentary group, and we have adopted that amendment. It is an amendment to Article 5 for the simple reason that it is, in fact, an amendment which means a legal solution that is currently in force. We had a little better solution in the proposal, but it's essentially no different than the SVM proposal and then we simply decided to accept their amendment. All that you said was contained in the amendment that was accepted, the amendment to the 5th Group of Members of the SVM.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18655	Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Veselinović, you still have the next member, so say what you wanted to say through it. I'm sure it's not a replica in the direction that the Minister of State has told you something negative. Explain through the next amendment. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: You did not follow, and it is very important. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blagoja Bradic, Branka Karavidić and Biljana Hasanovic Korać. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18656	Dear Minister, I am pleased with this response and there may have been a technical error. We had a similar amendment. However, it is very important to me that local self-government and provinces will be able to subsidise loans in the future, and in that sense, the goal has been achieved. I thank you for the explanation that I am not comparing now with the text of the law. When it comes to the entry into force, the next member I should have explained, the same thing, I don't know what the urgency of the law to come into force the next day of adoption, or publication in the Official Messenger. What's your hurry? It's the new year 1.1, and you've had plenty of time, which is why, why, you know, you're making a mistake with the people that you have bad intentions, that you're hiding something, and it's not just a fact that we're discussing amendments at half four or I don't know how many. The laws enter into a time that is not suitable for a democratic society, unless it's an earthquake, a flood or something. Why should 98% of the law by emergency procedure and why the laws pass the Constitution that is in the category for emergency situations only?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18657	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18658	Just for a minute, I want to comment. It is necessary that the law enters into force immediately by 1 January at the same time as we adopt the budget law, because we are followed by the job of preparing the regulation, a regulation must be prepared in January by 31 January, on the basis of which we will later share the incentive in agriculture. It's just a reason and no speed or any other reason is behind this. By the way, since I didn't mention to you today that in the next few days, we're going to pay off all the backlogs to farmers we've inherited and transferred from year to year, and that's an important message, if they're watching us, and I believe most of them are now getting up and going to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18659	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for A.D.O.O.D. ON THE INTES A.D. BELGRADE, NBG BANK MALTA LTD, AIK BANK A.D. YOU DIDN'T AND UNICREDIT BANK SRBIA A.D. BELGRADE, BY THE PUBLIC A.D. ON THE PURPOSE OF THE PUBLIC A "SRGBIAGAS" NEW ENTERED BY THE NATIONAL MEMBERIANS. Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavićevic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veslinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Blaža Bradić together. The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18660	Thank you, Your Honor. Unfortunately, this law, too, when we held the debate in principle, was unable to discuss, and I think it is very important, given that this law provides for the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for a new debt of "Srbigas" to domestic banks of $200m. The only thing that seems to me to be told on that occasion is that we want to put all the costs above that line, so that nothing stays below the line and enter into the new year with a new budget with clean bills. I think that when it comes to this large task for a company already guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia for 678m euros, if I have well added all those figures in Article 3. The draft budget, quite certain new debt for some 160m euros deserves to be discussed in the National Assembly, so if in no other way, at least through, of course, I expect the minister to be involved to discuss whether this new debt of $200m is justified at the time that Serbia's sovereign debt exceeded 70% of the GDP, and according to the Budget System Act that we are changing, but we haven't changed, the debt is 45%. We could have if we had to change that member of the law to the 60% masquerade so we had some real goal in reducing the deficits we wanted to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18661	Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18662	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm gonna try really hard to get at least some answers. Article 2 says that the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia is given in favour of OTP Banka Serbia A.D. Novi Sad on the basis of a loan obligation of $20m in dinar equivalent. At the nominal interest rate which is variable, and I think it's interesting that we're talking about interest rates now that we're listening to how the previous government owed itself by not knowing what interest, and this authority owes to the minority for nothing. So here's what it looks like for nothing. This is a three-month amount of dollar libora plus an interest margin of 5.2% on an annual level of fees and expenses. I ask the question why we took loans in dollars, at a time when the dollar is the strongest in its newest history, and not in the euro, at a time when the bill for a dollar is 0.243%, however, six months, but purely for comparison. The 6-month Euro Libor is also 0.56%. I ask the question then, why did we take this loan in dollars, because it's according to the NBS course is much more unfavourable at this point than if we took a course in euros. I'd like to get an answer from the minister to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18663	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18664	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Yes, this is the law on that borrowing. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the 2011 law. There's no interest, there's no where, there's nothing, just a naked number that we're in charge of "Serbiagas". Here's the 2010 contract, Mr. Djurisic. Where's the interest here? Where's the good course here? Where's the euribor here? Where are the other conditions here? How did you end up in debt? Why aren't you waving at these guys? What did you do when you could do that? This contract clearly states - the precise obligations of our country as we take credit, with whom under what conditions. Here's the law that doesn't hide anything. Here's the laws you're in charge of. Just plain papers, Mr. Djurishic, and now you're giving us lectures here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18665	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Dr. Violeta Lutovac called first. On what grounds? I guess it's a mistake. Sir, Byatovic, are you by amendment or replica? (Dusan Bajatovic, from the post: By amendment. ) According to the amendment. Then he has the advantage of Mr. Djurisic, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18666	Thank you, Your Honor. I hope that this thundery applause has been the announcement of the Prime Minister's entry and that we will have the opportunity to ask the last Thursday of the month in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, and that the Prime Minister and the Government will not again, for the fifth time in a row, avoid coming before the National Assembly and answering the questions of the MPs. I don't know if anything's gonna happen. I expect the prime minister any minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18667	Mr. Djurishic, you know very well that the Rules of Procedure are not so, but, well, go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18668	You know very well that it is, only you do not respect the Rules of Procedure, so we did not have any parliamentary questions in August, in September, in October, in November, and we will have no chance in December.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18669	Mr. Djurishic, you've come to the amendment. Do you want to speak according to the amendment, in fact by the replica, I apologize?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18670	Of course, I want a replica. I picked up the line. I've already spoken after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18671	Replicate to whoever you think caused the replica and not to comment on something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18672	Well, I suppose you can allow me freedom on how I'm going to bring my replica here before the MPs. So, I think it is useful to discuss in what way and under what conditions has the state of Serbia, or "Srbigas", been in debt in the past and under what conditions and under what interest? Are any of these loans here in the 2015 budget? If these are these loans, you can see that they were loans in euro with 5% interest, three-month libora for the euro. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Where does it say? ) See Article 3. The budget law, there are about 20 loans for which the state of Serbia has provided guarantees and which we have been paying back for years, with a total of 678m euros in debt. If I did a good calculation of 678 million euros. I was counting. And now we're in charge of another 160m euros, without a plan in which we will...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18673	The word has a folk after Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18674	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here are those who read to us here and honor various conditions. The 2011 law, which has put 180m euros in debt under catastrophic conditions. Here's to 2010 even worse conditions for 170m euros. There are no conditions, no interest, no deadlines, no writing. But, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a very interesting article 5. I listened carefully for two hours as we non-transparently work because the law takes effect the next day from the day of publication. Here, I'll read you Mr. Djurisic's law. Article 5 This law takes effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". What were you doing, Mr. Djurishich when you were able to write the laws? How did you apply that? What do you expect from us? Transparently, we show under what conditions, transparently showing which banks, transparently showing and when we return them. What did you give us here? Papers immediately in effect, on the same day, the same evening, as soon as you announce them. What kind of sermon have we been listening to here for two hours from you? What, did you stand before us and say, "This is how we did it, why don't you do it like that?" You've worked a hundred times up there. Nothing, on plain paper just the amount, or when it will return, or under any conditions, of course, immediately the next day. You knock your head down and you do, Mr. Djurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18675	Thank you, Mr. Granny. To return this debate to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Djurishich, I think this is quite enough replica. Either we keep working on the amendment or I'll take a break. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: he spoke to me nicely. Mr. Bajatovic, please. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Mr. Chairman, injured the Rules of Procedure.) I'll take a minute. One minute to get serious. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Mr. Bayatovic, you have your word. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Djurishich. Mr. Bayatovic, you've got your word. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18677	I would, only that Mr. Djurisic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18678	I'll have to make warnings if... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: The Rules of Procedure have been injured. Here you go, Mr. Bayatovic. You will get your word when Mr. Bajatovic is finished. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: you have to give me your word.) I don't have to. He's already got Mr. Bajatovic's word. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: You cannot ignore me. Mr. Djurishic, you do not chair the National Assembly. (Marko Djurisic, from the site: Please give me an explanation.) ) He got the word Mr. Bajatovic, you'll get after him. Here you go, Mr. Bayatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18679	All right, colleague Djurishic, since you asked for some explanations, you'll get a hand job from that Rules of Procedure. As you have seen, all governments have been in debt since 2008 based on the current liquidity of "Srbigas". If you're interested in interest rates, these are more favourable and this is more transparently written. We used to only show contracts. I just want to tell you that the social policy, which was led through "Srbigas" as a hidden fiscal deficit of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, began in 2008. If we look at the balance sheets of "Serbigas" today, without these bank duties, we owe us the economy, the citizens, the heat and the rest of them a billion and 300 million euros. In reality, from the enterprises in restructuring, and these are the jobs that we often fight for, depending on whether we are the government or the opposition, it will objectively not be all billable claims and therefore there is a plan, and I will say a few words about the implementation of the financial restructuring of "Serbiagas" and that "Srbigas", in accordance with the new Energy Act, is also restructured, i.e. the image, divided by energy activities. I've looked at this law and I understand the impatience of colleagues. In fact, this is being erased, it is not necessary to take charge of "Srbigas" at all, but, I'm sorry, we have nothing to pay for Russian gas with, and we have made a commitment this year of 100 million because the heat owes us 150m euros at this point and because this debt will grow by the end of the heating season. If you look at guarantees that "Srbigas" can take from schools, hospitals, enterprises in restructuring, they can't give any guarantees. Or, if you want from social institutions, turn in order, state institutions, are ordinary bonds, as well as the heat they give us. You know that issuing a note without a cover is a crime. We can immediately arrest over a thousand school directors, hospitals, and everything else because the children were heating up because the cities were heating up because there was some social policy going on that was too expensive. This government simply made a plan in co-operation with "Serbiagas" and I now want to expose it where with this overpriced social policy it has to stop. I'll tell you the situation with petrochemicals. It's no secret. He owes 250m to Serbia, which he owes NIS 250m. The salaries are 2m euros per month. It would be better if instead of running an expensive social policy, which began in 2008, we spent that money developing these same industrial plants. Gentlemen of the DS, we were together in the government, we didn't make that decision. It was easier to let something come out of the window or through the chimney than to define itself for corporate guarantees along with NIS, so we would, with that 500 million debt to "Serbiagas" and to NIS and 300 million to the state, where Petrochemy made Qatar, or make an enterprise that would be profitable. We just didn't do it like that. We've been trying to figure out how to keep these jobs safe. Too expensive. If these workers had gone on vacation for two years, and if we had created a polypropylene or polyethylene factory, which we need to make a successful cycle now, these workers would have cost 50 million, and we only spent 250 from "Srbigas" and 250 million from NIS. So it can't go on like that. If we're going to have the Banatian Court delivered to you tomorrow to fill it, however, I have good news, Mr. Minister, in the next quarter there'll be $340 in the next 275. Therefore, there is good news in that sphere. With Russians, all arrangements are confirmed in terms of the flexibility of the delivery. I must tell you that, thanks to the talks of the prime minister and president, 60m euros in interest on the basis of unaccepted gas and financial debt, therefore, of classical interest. What do we want now? We want no more new duties for "Srbigas" as of January 1st. What does that mean? That means the gas has to be paid, and it won't go that easy. For a while, we're going to need one financial shocker with the amount of gas we have in Banatski dvor because they can't all, for example, heat to pay for gas because we're delivering them gas for four months, and they're charging consumers for a whole year. So we're going to have to make such a financial liquidity of "Srbigas" that will allow us to endure all this until we catch up with the heat and until the story of restructuring public enterprises in restructuring is finished. What's more important to say about this? You asked here for dollars why we were in debt. I don't believe the Fed will raise interest rates more than the European Central Bank will, on the contrary, but we can talk about it as much as you want. What else is important? What I want to say to you as MPs is also impossible for "Srbigas" to be the most unprotected trustee in the world. So, we're going to introduce bank guarantees, too. On the other hand, we have to pay back some of the debt. About 600m euros is only the difference in the previous four years for the supplied gas at an unreal price. Two hundred million euros was given for capital borrowed on these credit bases. That's gotta stop. Therefore, this money was not taken, as colleagues would say, without reason or for someone to spend it on any wages or anything. On the contrary, the cost of transporting gas to the Serbian system and the international part must rise to two dinars in order to be realistic. With these two dinars, as agreed, Mr. Minister, we will repay 60m euros in the Serbian commitment on an annual basis. Also, on the basis of the estimated assets, nets need to bring revenue about four billion, which will be part of investment cycles and we will still work to cut the gas price with other distributors. I'm talking about "Srbigas" as a company, as unpopular as it seems, coming out of both the budget and the headlines, and being an efficient company that will help lead the deficit in the budget in line with what was agreed with the IMF. So, we can, I'll report to the amendments if we have to, there's no problem, we have to understand one thing, if we want to restructure that company, if we want to protect our market so that it's neither speculative nor unstable, in terms of gas supply, we need these 200 million to help both the heats and schools and hospitals, and businesses in restructuring, until they find a strategic partner. For example, he should soon begin to work “The Iron One. ” She spends about four million gasses a month, she can't pay for it. We have to hold on long enough so that all these companies don't just fall apart. Please, colleagues, as interesting as this vampire era is, there's nothing here but a list of banks and interest. Indeed, what counterpart Babic says, the fair list and interest rates given and interest rates are on average lower. If the goal is just the story of why it's in dollars, that's what it's supposed to be. If you're looking at how it's going to behave now, then we already know that the European Bank is going to have to broadcast additional amounts of money. We don't know how the Eurobor itself is going to move, it probably won't go much worse, so in terms of the increase, but the Fed won't print the money either, because they don't need it. So it's no big mistake, that we're in debt in dollars. Why? Because we usually pay that gas in dollars, and most of our loans are indexed in euro. So the thing here is clean. And let me tell you something else, probably in the next period, if the Ministry of Finance approves it, that things are pure according to "Serbiagas", because our losses based on exchange rate differences are about 150m euros, the part relating to gas payments, we should think about starting to invoice in dollars. Because these dinar, dollar and euro depressions have made 150 million debt in three years when it comes to "Srbigas". That's what a short picture looks like. If we want to meet the agreement with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, these measures that I have now stated must be respected, and this loan should serve us as a financial shocker in order to really go out on a green branch next year by the end of the year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18680	Thank you, Mr. Bayatovic. Before I give my word to the minister, Mr. Djurisic has a word, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18681	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe you injured Article 104 when you gave me no right to a replica. I was directly mentioned, my exposure was misconstructed and the senior MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18682	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. It's my interpretation that you had no right to a replica. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yes, thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18683	Thank you. After this detailed explanation of Mr. Bajatovic, I would not repeat it, but I must say one piece of information that is very important for both the present moment and our future borrowings. This $200 million loan was made strictly under regulations, with public procurement. In the purchase, everything is done by law and $200 million in standard published terms is filled from the best to the most expensive conditions. If you've asked me to tell you some information before, then let me tell you. The first $30 million at 4.5% interest, for the next 20 million at 4.71%, the next 20 million at 4.86%, the next 20 million at 4.50%, the next 20 million at 5.20%, the next 20 million at 5.45%, the next 20 million at 6% and the last 40 million at 5.45%. We can calculate the average interest rate. Everything's been done by the book. Participants were the Bank of Inteza, OTP Banka, Unicredit Banka, AIK Banka, etc. Could it have been cheaper? I'm sure it could, and I think if we do things the way we're supposed to be cheaper, we're going down, we're going to improve our credit rating, we're going to have a smaller margin that we have to pay, it's going to be better. But this was done exactly by procedure, as it must, published, done, filled to the end. Mr. Bajatovic told us what the money was used for. There's one thing I want to add. The deal is very detailed, the deal settles old debts, the agreement stipulates there will be no new guarantees for liquid liquidity. The deal envisions that "Srbijagas", i.e. Mr. Bajatovic, will provide the refurbishment of funds placed in the Banatski Dvor, which I think is very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18684	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18685	This year, the cost was increased to fill the Banatski Dvor and will be a permanent reserve that will be renewed every year. These moments you're talking about funding these so-called so-called. seasonal oscillations in revenue and gas costs, that's something we're going to have to solve with other mechanisms.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18686	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3 of this law speaks of a guarantee at the Bank of Intez, for a $30m loan, with interest which is variable and amounts to a three-month dollar libor plus an annual interest of 4.5%. If we look at Article 3 on page 25. The budget law, which we will adopt, we can see the indirect obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards banks of domestic, Serbian banks, for "Serbia". Then we can see that 10m euros is a loan that was taken with interest of 4.80, so the next one is at the same Bank of Intez, which is spoken of by Article 3, taken at an interest rate of 4,19 plus the eurobor, which is smaller, 0,050 and something, 4,19, 4,19, 4,19, etc. All these loans are in the budget here. All these loans are in the budget here. If something had been done against the law before, they would not have been there, the state of Serbia would not have been able to assume obligations based on them, so it is certain that everything has been done by law in the past tense. Is it always done the best? Of course, that's what we need to talk about. Our desire to submit these amendments was to discuss it. We have now heard a colleague of Bajatovic, the director of "Srbijagas", say something about it. We finally heard the minister. I think that's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18688	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18689	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 4 also speaks of a loan with the Bank "Intect", but, this time, the conditions of borrowing are different - interest of 4,86% on an annual basis, as opposed to 4.5% on the previous member, although the contracts were concluded on the same day, on 8 December 2014 between the borrower, i.e. "Srbigas" and the Bank "Intect". It's very interesting how in the same bank we managed to get two loans on different terms on the same day. I'd like to hear some explanation. I beg you, Mr. Chairman, do not show any anxiety. What I'm saying about the company where you work is no reason to be nervous and not give me your word and not let me talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18690	Mr. Djurishic, you're already moving on to your own. I'm not nervous at all, you see. I'm just forbidden to have a smile on my face, from certain MPs, from Mr. Markovic, and I don't count on it anymore, and I respect it. But if you think it's because I don't have a smile on my face, because there's not an MP who warned me, from now on, I'm going to have a smile on my face, so you don't think I'm nervous. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18691	Here, I confess, Mr. Chairman, Article 107. Rules of Procedure, I'm nervous. You know, I read this law, which was passed by a previous speaker who accused you of anxiety, and I'm nervous, because it says: "In an amount that cannot be - at the Unicredit bank ad Belgrade - greater than the dinar amount indexed by the amount of 30m euros, increased by the amount of the agreed interest, fees and expenses. What kind of interest? What interest did you make, Mr. Djurish? What fees did you make? What kind of expenses did you arrange? Where are they here in this contract? I'm nervous about it, Mr. Chairman. I'm nervous because this government has to pay back these debts, which we don't even know what they are or where they are. Where did the fees go?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18692	Mr. Granny, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18693	Where are the missing costs? Where are the fees and expenses in this loan contract? There's interest. Of course, transparently displayed. But in these contracts of the previous speaker and amendment promoter there is no such thing as that. There's no amount. We can only assume how much it is and where these fees and expenses went.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18694	Mr. Babico, I'm asking you not to show any anxiety, because it's not worth it to make you nervous. We have two MPs. Mr. Balša Bozovic first answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18695	I thank you, Chairman of Vienna. You violated Rule 106, where the speaker can only speak about the agenda point, not what happened four, five or six years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18696	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (No) The word came from the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18697	The Honorable Chairman, Article 108. Rules of Procedure. I believe you've been obliged to give a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18698	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The Rules of Procedure allow me to judge. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure, and I didn't have a reason to give a warning. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (No) The word has a National MP Dusan Bajatovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18699	Anyway, or should I use the seven more minutes I have left? But the explanation...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18700	Mr. Bajatovic, before you use those seven minutes, you have the right to a replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18701	I just want to explain the question asked by my colleague. You know what, when you negotiate with banks and when you show a company that already owes 600, 700, 800m euros, regardless of the state guarantee, it's considered high exposure. I have to tell you that in order to get to this $200 million loan, we actually had to do it twice, as I would say, because in the first competition, some banks had political conditions, a guy to impose sanctions on Russia and things like that. That's where we talked to "Intesz" twice, to take down these conditions of the type of sanctions to Russia and similar things. Government colleagues who participated in these negotiations know what this is about. Therefore, given how much “Srbigas” in terms of debt, regardless of the state guarantee, is exposed to banks, I argue that these loans are negotiated with excellent conditions, you can call them both transparent and in these conditions difficult to go to “Serbian” with better interest rates. It's just like that. It was negotiated as best it could be. And I hope that this answer satisfies the difference in interest, because banks act differently. The same banks that are registered with loans are already fairly exposed, especially "Inthesis", according to "Srbigas". I repeat, we're not damaged because otherwise we pay for gas in dollars. Whatever we did, the amount of money would be the same, as you can see, it opens...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18702	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18703	... to the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18704	Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18705	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 5 speaks of a third loan to the Bank of Intects. This time on 20 million U.S. dollars and interest in American Libor, three months, plus an interest margin of 4.71. So 0.15% less than the one in the previous term. With each of these loans, aside from the agreed interest, there's also compensation and expenses that we don't see. So we can't see. That's what I'm saying because of some fellow MPs who say that sometimes they didn't know what fees and expenses were. Unfortunately, by this law, we also don't know. At no point during my exposure, I doubted that I was negotiating the best possible loan. At this point, I just wanted to talk about this law. We're going to talk and hopefully by the end of the debate on this law, what we couldn't say when it was a principle debate, because it was united and we talked about the budget most, we haven't been able to talk about this and the next two laws, that we're going to explain, first of all, to the citizens in what way, which is why, under which conditions the state of Serbia is in charge of the new $200 million US dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18706	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Whether anyone wants a word (No) On behalf above Article 6 and Article 6 of the amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blagoje Bradić together. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18707	Thank you. This article is slightly different from the previous four members. He says – the guarantee provided by Article 1 of this Act is issued by the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of "NBG bank Malta LTD" as a lender and "Vojvodjanska banka" a.d. Novi Sad as an agent of security and paying agent, on behalf of the loan agreement obligations, and number, to maintain the current liquidity of $20m. The conditions for this loan are the interest rate variable, amounting to three months, US, dollar LIBOR, plus an interest margin of 4.5% on an annual basis, as well as fees and costs between the borrower and "NBG bank Malta". We're in debt here at one side of the bank, where the Vojvodjanska Banka has only the role of security agents and paying agents, and I'm guessing it takes a percentage for that role. I guess he does, I believe I'll get an answer and we'll make it clear if this $20 million couldn't be found at some domestic bank, or a bank registered in Serbia to avoid paying for security agents and paying agents.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18708	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18709	Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you not to talk here about assumptions, to talk here about what is shown in the law. It's loud and clear. Article 107, 106. Because you're talking about conjecture. Because there's talk of that, I guess, looking in the mirror, looking at what was done in these laws where it was written that there was an agreed interest, but no amount, but she wrote a fee, but she doesn't know who or how much, but they wrote expenses, she doesn't know how much or who. And these are the duties for "Serbiagas" and it's the law, but it says, not the assumption. Well, if we're going to go with the logic of the previous speaker, then I can construct here, do you know any assumptions? What are the fees, what are the costs, what are the agreed interest, who have gone, what is the amount? And the duties were just piled up, piled up with the budget and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Please, let's not talk about assumptions. Let's talk about facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18710	Mr. Granny, I've heard it all the way. I think you've also used a little replica to hurt the Rules of Procedure, so I'm taking a minute away from your time as an authorised representative. The word has Mr. Bajatovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18711	So, Mr. Djurishic, all you're reading is crossboarders. The whole Serbian banking system now to turn upside down couldn't find that money at a bank and negotiate it like that. What you have, you read it as a mediator, it's not an unusual banking business at all, nor did we get it at a significantly higher interest rate. Banks lend to banks. So it's about someone who can put it that way, but it's just not an unusual banking business. It's just that our banks don't have the potential at this point, especially if it's about dollars, to find so much of what we call domestic banks, to put it on the market. So don't doubt that this is about anything that's an unusual banking business that's a world-class practice. It's not what we invented in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18712	Thank you, Mr. Bajatovic. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18713	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 7 of which we have proposed to delete talks on the authority that the Republic of Serbia benefits from "AIK Banka a.d", means, domestic banks, mostly owned by domestic capital. Namely, the loan obligation is the number and that, to maintain the current liquidity of $20m under conditions that interest, nominal interest with variable, is a three-month dollar libor, plus an interest margin of 6% this time. I think it's the biggest interest. Maybe that's not bad, since it's a domestic bank, so she'll benefit most from this loan. So 6% on the annual level, then the expenses that were completed on 8 December 2014. I repeat that I am not, I have no doubt of any evil intention, I want to hear it, and here's another explanation why that previous loan was agreed on as agreed. I also believe that this loan was agreed under this biggest interest compared to all other loans, because this domestic bank probably had the most difficult negotiators and it was most difficult to convince them that a company such as "Srbigas" as the director himself said, gave a new loan again, regardless of what the state of Serbia was a guarantee and that much better than this condition could not. I hope it will be as the director said, that we will not take new loans in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18714	Thank you. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18715	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is our approach to this member, and other members also come from the fact that we believe that Serbia must no longer be in debt. Namely, I have here in front of me a report from the Public Debt Administration in November, the freshest one, in 2014 which totals the debt of the Republic of Serbia in terms of participation in GDP is 69.2%. Compared to 2011, it is a record 24% growth in debt. The latest DRI report made it clear that you have exceeded your legal mandate in relation to GDP. That's why this loan is not allowed. It's illegal by law. That is why we were obliged to propose one such amendment and attitude to this law. So, you're in charge of enormously, even beyond legal conditions. Not only that, but the overall debt of the Republic of Serbia to 22,737,759.000 euros, or 28 billion euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18716	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 9th Amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić together. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18717	The subject of this article is the guarantee "Uni Credit" bank, and I continue the reasons that are the same why we are to delete this member. The overall responsibility of the Republic of Serbia during this government and during the previous government, or as you say, is the same only schedule of parties was something different, is $28.306,241,000 US dollars. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Djurisic said otherwise. Let me remind you gentlemen, the duty of 2000... (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: you do not have the same information. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18718	Please, Mr. Granny, don't confuse a speaking MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18719	In 2000, the debt amounted to 14,167.000,000 euros. Please listen to me carefully. So in 2000, the total debt of the Republic of Serbia was 14 billion and 167m euros. The total debt in 2011 was 14 billion and 787 million. So, almost the same. Imagine, today's debt, or on November 30, 2014, was 22 billion 286 billion euros. So all of our governments are in charge of 600m euros, including Kostunica's government, and your government, or your two governments, is in charge of seven and a half billion euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18720	Mr Bozovicu, don't disturb the speaking MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18721	This, gentlemen, is your information. It writes – state and structure of public debt, November 2014, Republika Srpska, Ministry of Finance, Public Debt Administration. So your institution gave this information.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18722	Time. Thank you. The word is Mr. Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18723	Article 107, insulting dignity, insulting the entire people with this kind of falseness, because this is something that's amazing. They've had debts written off by the London and Paris Club, which he forgets to say, and since then, we've been re-indebted to 14 billion. Don't make it up. These are tiny hours and they think people are rebellious and they don't realize what this is all about, but tell the truth about how much you owe us and how much you ruined us and how much we need to be in charge of paying back your debts on abnormal interest from 7% to 9%. Be honest with me once and stop fooling the public around here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18724	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, because I can't explain to MPs who aren't economists to reprogram credit, that taking new loans and returning old loans doesn't mean new borrowing. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18725	What the esteemed Mr. Djukanovic has said, it is small hours, it is early in the morning, but it is so rude to say that in 12 years, and unfortunately in some parts of our country there are 14 years, they have been in charge of 600m euros. Fine, good, and here's only in these two papers, you see, A4 formats on two sides, one 170m euros in 2010, and this one from 2011 180m euros, no compensation, no interest, no nothing. Only in these two 350m-euro papers. It's full of Parliament and it's full of government papers like this. Then who are you cheating on? What do you believe in? That in 12 years you owe our country 600m euros, and only these two papers in two years, only for Serbia's 350m euros? So where's your cheek? Where is the congratulation, to look and to be able to raise your head and look us in the eye, even though it is shared by this pay phone, and to present such things that are shamelessly untrue, Mr. Vesenović? Only in these two 350m-euro papers. No compensation, no expenses, no interest. There's nothing to talk about. Do you know how many of these papers have been in 12 years? The sea. A lot of paper like that. So at least, when you read some data, agree with Mr. Djurisic, do you agree to a little bit if we're in charge of 60, 70 or 100 euros an hour, and what do you owe? You're saying 600 million euros you owe our country?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18726	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18727	So here's these two papers, they should be framed to stand in some economic parts like the shame of a state. Export only, no further obligations. And you found that you gave us lectures here. Why don't you explain how you got these contracts?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18728	Thank you. You're reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Veselinović? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. Did we agree that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure? You have your amendments, you can say what you want. (Janko Veselinović, from town: We did not agree. I think we have a deal. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You can't negotiate. Who did you agree with? We didn't make a deal. Mr. Djurisic, I'm not talking to you at all, I spoke to Mr. Veselinović. You don't have to be a lawyer. He can say that without you. Mr. Veselinović, will you report to your next amendment or insist on the Rules of Procedure? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18729	First of all, we didn't make any arrangements. Secondly, Mr Babic persistently violates the Rules of Procedure, i.e. you violate the Rules of Procedure because you allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18730	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want us to make a statement in voter's day?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18731	I didn't even tell you which member you broke.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18732	Thank you. MPs will be declared on Voting Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18733	What will it be said about?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18734	About the injury of the Rules of Procedure I've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18735	By what member?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18736	You didn't say anything, Mr. Veselinovic, a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18737	Well, you wouldn't let me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18738	That's what you have to say in the first word, Mr. Veselinovic. Here, you see you don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18739	In the first word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18740	In the first word, you have to call the member I broke. You didn't do it, and I believe you're violating the Rules of Procedure because you didn't report correctly after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljna Hasanovic Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18741	So we ask that this member be deleted too, for the reason that this government is overly in debt. In two-and-a-half years, the government, or the previous government, was in charge of seven-and-a-half billion euros. In 2000, the total public debt of the Republic of Serbia was...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18742	Mr. Veselinović, would you like to return to the amendment a little bit?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18743	This is an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18744	If you don't know what it's like, I'll read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18745	I know very well, to erase...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18746	But don't talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18747	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18748	Unless you're making an introduction that has something to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18749	Mr. Chairman, I demand that this member be deleted, but you will give me my time. I'm asking it to be deleted because we're in additional debt, and we've crossed the line by law. Now I'm reading why it's like that. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia has increased by 24% since this government and the previous government took office, which means it has increased its debt by 45%, which was legally allowed at the border, to 69%. In 2000, the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Public Debt Administration, was 14 billion and 167 million, and in 2011 14 billion and 787m euros and points. This is the Public Revenue Authority's data. The total debt then rose rapidly to 22 billion 286m, i.e. seven and a half billion euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18750	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word is Mr. Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18751	Of course, Mr. Becic, I am re-advertising Article 107 because it is inadmissible to deceive the Assembly like this and to deceive citizens. I really don't want to agree to this. If you're already talking about your duties, tell us what interest you were in debt, and how much interest today is when...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18752	Mr. Djukanovic, I can't let you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18753	We can't play like this anymore and this is how people are deceived, because these are very sensitive things...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18754	Mr Djukanovic, I will take time from the authorised representative of the parliamentary group if you continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18755	... And because the London Club and the Paris Club wrote off their debts, and they won't say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18756	Thank you. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljna Hasanovic Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradić together submitted their title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment. The word has a National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18757	We ask that this member be deleted, i.e. to delete the entire law, because we believe this goes beyond normal duty, and these duties will have to be returned by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, professors, teachers, teachers, soldiers, police officers, pensioners and still unfinished students, students, and seven and a half billion in debt for these two and a half years. What's our proposal?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18758	Mr. Veselinović, according to this amendment, they have an exact responsibility. Please move within the limits of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18759	Yeah, I'm asking you to erase that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18760	It's okay, so we're not in charge. It says here – the loan is paid off by a lender to an OTP bank, etc., and dexed according to the value of the US dollar, all in accordance with the provisions of individual credit agreements. So, according to the amendment, we're not in debt, but it explains how we pay off.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18761	You took 30 seconds to read the article you could read earlier and as I get to know him. So, I ask that this task is not activated, that is, not to take credit, because I believe we are over-indebted and because I believe that Mr. Bajatovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18762	Here it is said and as it provides, the borrower is obliged to provide the funds for the payment of the loan according to the payment plan. So we're not in charge of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18763	And what you didn't submit to the amendment, when you were well acquainted with that member. Why didn't you react? I'm asking him to wipe himself and explain why. So he doesn't exist for me, I delete him and explain why I'm erasing him. So, you over-indebted us, therefore, that this government has over-indebted us. Mr. Bajatovic has owed us over seven years and it is not his excuse to do so. You'll probably take my word for it because I'm telling you about the director, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18764	Normally, Mr. Bajatovic will be entitled to a replica because you mentioned his name and name. Here you go, Mr. Bayatovic. You have the right to a replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18765	I have to say, I'm very surprised. We've heard other discussions on this subject before. I have one question for my colleague, if that's what he wants to answer. Do you think we should freeze to death this year, because if we don't pay for the gas, what do we have to do? The same thing Putin did, we roll the valve. Do you want to do it in schools, hospitals, businesses, social institutions, comas? Please, while I understand the opposition's action, let's see what we're talking about. We said very clearly, so we have a plan to financially restructure "Srbigas", I even gave the details. We have a part to help the government reduce the deficit, a part of its obligations to pay back. You know what the alternative is, that those 600 million that consumers pulled as an unreal price, these are the rules of the Energy Agency that we pass on to the buyer. Well, then how long will that gas be until that 600 million is collected and over what period? Is it in the period of payment of bank loans? So, please, I think we've been through 45% of our duties during the past and pre-government. I think we're going to have to go up to about 70% to balance the cost of debt and everything. We made that public. If the goal of this whole story is, just to come up with opposition attitudes and say, we are to erase and no longer be in debt, then I ask you to reconsider what the alternative is. The alternative is either that all these costs that were previously directed as social policy are passed on to the buyer, and the other alternative is that the state through this financial shocker and allowing one year of "Serbiagasu" breath, we really come to the point of being a profitable company, as the government of the Republic of Serbia asks us to. Therefore, without that obligation, it is not possible to implement it. The alternative to this is we don't have gas and we can't fill the Banatian Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18766	Thank you, Mr. Bayatovic. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. To read the text of the bill, and the amendment reads – to delete that article, and the text of the bill – if the guarantee is given, the guarantee will comply with the obligation instead of the lender, the borrower will be entitled to return the principal, interest, accompanying costs, etc. Here's a word from the People's MP Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18767	I must confess to the chairman that this is a great progress, that you are now introducing MPs to the member you are considering, even read, the truth is a little incomprehensible, so I'm not so sure they've gotten the impression if they haven't read it before. Will you allow me to answer your Director's question under this amendment? He asked me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18768	You can only explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18769	Yes, I explain my amendment in a way that I believe that whether there will be heating is not thinking in December, but in February, March of the previous year, not now. The government this was formed quite a long time ago and they could think about how they would...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18770	Please explain the amendment you submitted. I can read it one more time, if you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18771	No, it's too long an amendment, and on the other hand, I asked that member to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18772	What member? What's it say?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18773	The 12th article you've already read, there's no need to read it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18774	Please, then move within that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18775	We're asking that no credit be taken, and I think he's responsible for what this loan is now being taken and that we may be under duress. I agree with Mr. Bajatovic that we don't have too many alternatives, but what we're under extortion is this government's fault, no one else. And the fact that gas consumers have a privilege sometimes compared to those who heat up on electricity, on trees, which have central heating, no one subsidizes them. Although, these questions should have been clarified, not now beaten up by citizens who have nothing to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18776	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, do not speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18777	Who have nothing to buy from, to pay for the gas loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18778	Thank you. The word has a National MP Dusan Bajatovic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18779	Just so you all know about this thinking, the Banatical Court was loaded to the end. All contracts with Russian partners were made in time. We have a problem here that this loan should serve, to cut further practice of social policymaking through "Srbigas". Without these funds, without providing real liquid liquidity, including filling the Banat Castle during the summer, we cannot restructure "Srbigas" and do all that unless we have these funds. So, I'd just like to pray that we don't replace the thesis. So we're very clearly in debt, and in time we've been thinking about a possible Ukrainian scenario, because we've filled the Banatski Dvor and made with colleagues from Mola and other Hungarian merchants, let's say, an alternative in the event of a Ukrainian scenario. I remind you of the year 2009 when the gas was banned. As far as we were prepared to pay for it. Therefore, the country's energy future, or security, is being paid and I think that this overpriced social policy in "Serbiagas", is being interrupted, and these funds are intended to do so. If we're going to talk about gross balances then we can get involved in how much we're in charge is not a problem. We're talking about why we're taking exactly this 200 million. The purpose is very clear with a detailed plan in line with the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18780	Thank you, Mr. Bayatovic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18781	Thank you, Chairman, here's since you haven't, for me to meet fellow Members of Parliament with the contents of our amendment. So the amendment to Article 13, our proposal is to delete. A member of the 13th reads - Loans granted to the borrower on the basis of closed contracts for the maintenance of the current liquidity referred to in Articles 2 to 9 of this Act for which guarantees are issued under this Act will be paid to the borrower’s dedicated account which will be opened at the NBS after the entry into force of this Act. The funds from the dedicated account will be used to pay the borrower's commitments only with the agreement of the finance minister in charge. I have to admit very unusually.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18782	I ask the MPs to listen to the speaker and to hear why this member should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18783	It is very unusual that the borrower's hands are tied to the borrower and that the payer will be the finance minister. Does this mean that this government does not trust the director of Serbiaagas and that it may think that he will not have these means in the right way when it has the right to have these funds in the account opened by the NBS, it gives practically exclusively to the finance minister. I don't think it's convenient that we treat the CEO of a large and serious firm as someone who can't decide on his own, but will have to ask the finance minister for everything and that he can only make certain transactions on his orders. I think it'd be okay if it was either the minister or the CEO of the firm the way it is with the other jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18784	You have some protection, you don't have seven minutes all the time, the word has Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18785	Just so there's no misunderstanding here. The agreement in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which I personally agreed with, is not about any mutual mistrust and is that this money can be used exclusively for gas payment. So, in December, we have to withdraw the first 100 million, and the rest we will withdraw in tranches according to an agreement that we have signed very precisely in a memorandum signed together with the GASPROM. So, since we don't have to withdraw money from banks for the first six months, the rest of us have to keep somewhere and there's no better place than the NBS, and there's no reason for any mistrust. So, this spending of money other than the first 100 million, which will be immediately paid, will be paid by a memorandum in terms of debt and gas purchase, which was signed two weeks ago at the Ministry of Energy, with the representatives of the GASPROMA, and on the details of the Ministry of Finance, and we agreed that none of the only cents of that money could be spent on anything else, for any investments, hats, wages, purchases, but exclusively for gas provision, or gas payment. So there's no mistrust, and that's the deal we made, and it's very good for me. The government needs to know how that 200 million will be spent, precisely because of the level of duty we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18786	Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. They're not here. The National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. Here you go, Mr. Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18787	Gentlemen Ministers, Article 14, which we propose to delete, as well as all previous members, reads as is the case for all members of all the laws that we discussed today and yesterday, which is that this law should take effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I see that this was an argument by some fellow MPs, that we were bad, because in previous law-making when guarantees "Serbia-gas" were also given for taking credit, these laws also took effect the next day after the publication of the "Official Messenger". I just want to repeat what I've repeated several times about similar cases like this, which is that most of them have been chosen, because it's supposed to be better than those who led this country at some earlier time, and now we see on this case that it's no better, and I can say it's worse, because you had someone to learn from, learn from other people's mistakes and not repeat them. And you unfortunately repeat the same mistakes and repeat them persistently, repeating them so much that you practically make all the laws with a provision to enter into force the next day from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger", which is the opposite of the Constitution. The constitution states that the laws enter into force 8 days after publication, leaves the possibility of an exception, and that possibility requires the special assembly to declare it in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18788	Replic on? (Zoran Babić, from place: To wave paper, to the ruling majority, etc.)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18789	I didn't wave papers, I didn't say what my colleague Babic said, I hope you heard me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18790	Here you go. The ruling majority can do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18791	It is good that his colleague admitted that he had violated the Constitution by assembling and adopting the laws in which Article 5 writes – this law takes effect the next day, from the day of publication. What we are in, and where this government is unmistakably better, is that I have here one paper A4 format, bipartisan, where it's so obvious that the right amount of the 180m-euro loan is written down, and by the terms and conditions agreed, we can only assume, and what they are and where they ended up with and who and under what conditions. What makes us better is that when we do things like that, we say the amount and the fees and the interest and when they come back and what's variable and what's the same, absolutely transparent, absolutely true, unlike the ones who've kept us here for two hours, teaching us something that absolutely has nothing to do with anything. I would like Mr. Djurisic to answer us now, what are the agreed interest on the 2011 contracts, for an amount of 180m euros, what are the fees and what costs? I guess fees and expenses are the same thing. Is it possible that double charge was charged on the same basis and that amounts were paid? What is the interest on the 2010 contracts at 170m euros, which are the fees, which are the costs, to which the fees are paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18792	Time. The word has Dusan Bajatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18793	I'm just gonna give you an extra notice. That's why I called. Why is it urgent? It's 25 today. We actually have Thursday and Friday, and after that, it's gonna be hard for the bank to work. We need to withdraw 200 million dollars in the next two days, because these contracts are valid, in fact, and it has to be done in the course of this year. So in the next two days, we need to finish this whole job. This is why there really is a real justification here to take effect at the moment of publication, is it practical that we and the banks have to withdraw that money within 48 hours, because no one is going to work for you on December 29th and 30th and do dollar discounts in Serbia, which I am absolutely sure of. This is an explanation of why there is a truly established possibility and the need to take effect on the day of adoption, that is, the day of publication.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18794	You did not have the basis for the replica, but then be observant and answer briefly. Here you are, since I've looked a little through the fingers and the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18795	Dear Chairman, I really don't know, my colleague Babic called me directly and asked me to give him some explanations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18796	Give him some explanations so that you and I don't waste time on other people.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18797	Here is to avoid wasting time, I invite my colleague Babic to turn page 24 and 25. The draft budget law, there will see credits for "Srbigas" and can see the conditions under which these loans are agreed, and can look at this law and see that no member, no credit says what fees and expenses are. It says what the interest rate is, that the loan is in dollars, writes interest rate and writes fees and expenses and has no single figures. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: A fee? Where? ) See Article 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the Law, and you will see that there are only fees and costs without carrying out the figures. We couldn't hear the number and from the directors who arranged the contracts, nor from the ministers who proposed this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18798	I'm closing a circle of replicas. You explained. They'll all read the law, and they'll all read it. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. They're not here. Others don't have time. Since we've completed the review of the amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the point of the 11th agenda – Proposal for a Law on Presumption of Obligations of Business Society AIR SERBIA A.D. BELGRAD TO THE LAW AND PHYSICAL PERSONS ON THE BASED SERVICES AND CONSERBED SERBES AND TRANSPORT OF THESE OBLIGATIONS IN THE PUBLISH OF THE PUBLISH OF SERBIA You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs Marko Djurisić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snowžana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić, Dr. Blažje Bradić, Zoran Živić, Vladimir Pavić and Ivan Jovanovic. You've received reports from the competent committees and the government's opinion. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Everyone stands, walks, they are very rude here. They're very rude, see how they show ugly things, they wave here, it's really not right this way. Of course, it's hard to work and be focused at this time. Here's some people say things here, they get, they say rude things, I don't think that's really right, no matter what it is now, it's half five in the morning. They show me a lot of things even though it's not college, we've been working all day, 18 hours already, but unfortunately they don't all have the concentration to last. So it is heard in the letter of the Messenger. MP, turn off the microphone. It's coming from the transmission. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You do it all the time.) I don't know why I have to shut down. You're nonstop shutting down the microphone. You're not in my system and I can't rule you out at all. We're not taking a break. Failed attempt. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blagoje Bradić and joint MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Dr. Janko Veselinović. Explanations work, I only rule out when time goes by. You didn't and you left the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18799	You took ten seconds from me. So, it's a similar situation, but let me say perhaps even more dramatic in this debt takeover for "Er Serbia". I'll read it, so there's no doubt about what we wrote in the explanation. The takeover of the "Er Serbia" company, A.D. Belgrade, is increasing the overall public debt of the Republic of Serbia, which is at a dramatic high level at the moment and is threatening to jeopardise Serbia's entire public finance system. In addition, we believe that taking on the commitments "Er Serbia" A.D. Belgrade in the amount of nearly 20 billion dinars is extremely inadmissible, especially when considering that the draft budget has designed that the amount of savings based on the reduction of salaries and pensions will be around 27 billion. In this way, Serbian citizens show that the prime minister's business plans are more important to the state than its citizens' lives. Once again, to repeat the overall debt of the Republic of Serbia is 22 billion 286 million. At this point, so if you vote this bill in a few hours, you're going to charge us additionally for 20 billion dinars. I don't mind, probably no one against "Er Serbia" and that is one company in prosperity, but I'm not sure that citizens of Serbia, so exhausted from low wages, reducing pensions, etc., should take over its debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18800	Zeljko Sertić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18801	First, I think the MP said nicely, and I have confirmed that the solution and the issue of work "Er Serbia" is one of the most important things with us. What I would like to correct is that this is not a debt "Er Serbia", this is a debt to the old JAT that was made in the previous period. JAT was founded in 1927 as the "Aeroput" seems to me to be the name of the company. I think everyone wanted to make him a serious company. Unfortunately, the reasons for the events in the last ten years and the great losses that JAT has made are multiple. On the one hand, the leadership that could not be managed, on the other hand, by the great competition on the world market which JAT simply could not endure along with all those obligations he had, and the country as a state could not finance further its modernisation. The only way was to privatize this way and make a strategic partnership with someone. Today, "Er Serbia" is our pride. You all know what kind of parameters there are, that all increases are only a year between 50 and 70%. That the impact on "Nikola Tesla" airport is also where the majority owner of the state, i.e. the 100% owner of the state, is multiple precisely due to an increase in airport traffic. Immeasurable results are even with this debt takeover, what we have today only after a year, and this is the debt that exists, which must be paid and I don't see any other way to pay for it if it doesn't take over the state this way through the contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18802	Thank you. The 2nd Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoje Bradić and together by MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićić. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-24-0.u18803	Thank you, Your Honor, you can see that I can't even turn this microphone off. I would like to remind you that this law is called the Law on the takeover of the company's obligations to Er Serbia a. d. Belgrade according to legal and physical persons on the basis of the services performed, the goods delivered and the conversion of those obligations. So, Er Serbia and the question arises, since the contract founded by Er Serbia was signed on 1 August 2013, and Article 2 speaks about the debt situation of 19.3 billion dinars or 62m euros on 31 December 2013, the first question is whether a debt was made or not during the period from 1 August to 31 December? We can't see through this law. We see that that debt is 162, approximately, millions of euros. Why does it matter? We have a statement by Mr. Kondic in March of this year, which said that the loss of JAT Ervejza is 73m euros and that this draws a line, that the loss of 45m euros is an operational loss, and in line with SMEs, the balance of 28m euros covers the correction of the status of the former JAT's contract.
