ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10007	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (unregulated and unauthorized) 01 Number 06-2/297-14 of October 2014 (The session began at 12.05 hours). Igor Bečić, vice-president of the National Assembly, chaired the meeting. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10008	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 124 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly when adopting the minutes and setting out the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 146 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are prevented from attending the sittings: Miroslav Markicevic, Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović, Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric, Mladen Grujic, Olena Papuga, Vladimir Pavićevic, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović and Ninoslav Stojadinović. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft law in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes, from that session. I would like to inform you that by verifying the affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes on that committee. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 4, 5, 8, 9 and 10 September 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147, no one, with abstentions, voted 15 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, which took place 4, 5, 8, 9 and 10 September 2014. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure. A group of 199 MPs proposed that the draft law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the arms trade treaty, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the draft law amending the Real Estate Transport Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the draft Law amending the Law on Public Registration be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the total attendance of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the draft law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 171 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I put the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote on the draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 27 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, in general. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a CRIME LAW You have received a bill submitted by a group of 199 MPs. You have received the government's opinion, as well as reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. Does the proposing representative, MP Meho Omerovic, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Meho Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10009	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, members and members of our Parliament, you have seen, 199 MPs of the National Assembly have proposed amendments, or additions to the Criminal Code, and I think this law is necessary for the Republic of Serbia. We will consider this proposal to supplement the Criminal Code in the section concerning crimes against humanity and other goods, which are protected by international law, in a way that provides for the introduction of new two crimes. The first is participation in a war or armed conflict in a foreign country and the second crime of organising participation in war and armed conflict in a foreign country. Our concrete proposed solutions are next. After Article 386. The criminal code is added to the new names of members and members of 386a and 386b, which reads, quotes - a Serbian citizen who participates in a war or armed conflict in a foreign country as a member of the military or paramilitary formations of the party in conflict, and is not a citizen of that foreign state, as well as a member of an official mission of an international organisation whose member is Serbia, will be punished by a law of six months to five years; if the work of the 1st member is done within the group, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of one to eight years. Another crime through the introduction of a new Article 386b is the organisation of participation in a war or armed conflict in a foreign country - who, in order to carry out a crime under Article 386 of this Code on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, recruits or encourages another person to commit a crime, organises a group or conduct training of another person or a group for the execution of that crime, equipment or puts on the disposal of equipment for the execution of that act, or gives and collects funds for the execution of the crime, will be punished by a prison of two to 10 years; for the work of Article 1 of this article, the perpetrator will be punished by the penalty prescribed for that act and when the persons organised are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the criminal part of 386's involvement in war or armed conflict, the perpetrator can only be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and the prescribed sentence is, as you have heard, a prison of six months to five years, unless a crime is committed within the group, when a sentence of one to eight years is scheduled. For the second crime, 386b organises participation in war or armed conflict in a foreign country, the perpetrator may be any person who makes these actions in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The prescribed sentence of prison is from two to ten years old. Under the act of committing this offence, it is considered that recruiting or encouraging another person to perform part of an armed conflict in a foreign country, organising a group or conducting training of another person, equipping or making available equipment for the execution of that criminal offence, as well as giving or collecting funds for the execution of that offence. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason for passing such a law by emergency procedure has been observed that a number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are joining the military and paramilitary formations of the parties in conflict in other countries. The need for urgent, effective and appropriate intervention in the area of criminal law to respond to an increasingly pronounced security phenomenon of radicalisation and recruitment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia for participation in foreign conflicts. The negative consequences of this phenomenon are unnecessarily spoken of, but other than those most important to lead our Serbian citizens into life dangers, i.e. that some have already lost their lives, the issue of what is very important is the security risk of their return after their return to the country. There are no precise data on the number of followers, but it is estimated that, when it comes to Serbia, dozens. On the side of the battlefield, they go for material or other reasons. The problems that arise are multiple. It's about, first of all, human lives. Moreover, these people who themselves are victims of once propaganda, become further carriers of the spread of such ideas, which on the state plan poses a security risk and damages the country's reputation in the world. Serbia must firmly oppose this. Also, with these additions to the Criminal Law, the Republic of Serbia is improving its international credibility and respecting and taking on international commitments. The UN Security Council Resolution, recently adopted, also contributes to this. 2178. I'll read the basics of this resolution. It is stressed that terrorism cannot be linked to any religion, nationality or civilization. The resolution confirms that Member States must ensure that all measures taken in the fight against terrorism are in accordance with international law provisions. It is seen that terrorism cannot only be overcome by military action, legal provisions and intelligence, but also requires a comprehensive action. It underlines the need for Member States to co-operate to prevent terrorists from using modern technology, communication resources and resources to support terrorist acts. It confirms an invitation for all UN Member States to become part of international conventions and protocols concerning the fight against terrorism as soon as possible. Violent extremism is condemned. It is confirmed that all Member States will prevent the flow of terrorists and terrorist groups, strengthen border controls and control of travel and personal documents. Member States are required to strengthen and speed up the exchange of operational information in accordance with national international law. It decides that Member States will prevent recruitment, organisation, transportation and equipment of persons who intend to travel to a country other than their country of residence from preparing, planning or participating in terrorist acts. It is decided that all countries will ensure that their national legislation and provisions are introduced into criminal offences and penalties for them in accordance with the seriousness of the offence. All Member States are called on to improve international regional co-operation, if possible through bilateral contracts to prevent foreign terrorists from travelling. Finally, they call on all member states to co-operate when it comes to preventing terrorists from using modern technology, communication means to plan, prepare or participate in a terrorist act. A step for Serbia to describe the functioning and prescribe as criminal acts. Environment states, to remind you, Macedonia and BiH have already adopted in their procedures and implemented amendments and additions to their Criminal Law. What is potential in the Security Council Resolution, which I have been quoting for a moment, is the further need for comprehensive action by all state authorities, both on the state and on the interstate. By passing and applying this law, we want, above all, to preserve people's lives and especially young people who are still searching for their way and who, in conditions of poverty, become an easy target for every kind of indoctrination, we turn away from the path without returning. Serbia today is on the path of economic recovery, but every other progress of education and culture and as such, Serbia must be turned to developing true universal human values. At the very end, in this opening statement, as an authorised representative, I would also like to call on the MPs who belong to the so-called so-called Parliament. the opposition political bloc to vote in favour of this bill, because I am more than convinced that this is a law that supports all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10010	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10011	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the political message proposed by the legal solution is clear and unequivocal, and it shows the commitment of the Serbian state not to participate first in international conflicts, secondly, that its citizens and third, lasting and clear commitment that is in line with our history and tradition, which is for the peaceful resolution of all disputes. Note, Serbia is one of the few countries that really has something to say about this issue. We've never waged conquest wars. We've always waged liberation wars, and except for rare exceptions, we've always been on the side of winners, we've always been on the side of those who are threatened, and we've always defended, not just our freedom, but the freedom of other peoples. What is the political intention of the legislator of this bill is absolutely acceptable for the SPO and the DHSS. Let us not forget that for Belgrade, our capital, has been warned in history over 130 times, that 35 times Belgrade has been completely leveled with the ground, that Philip Barbarossa and Attila whips God, and the Germans, and the Austrians, and the Turks, and that our history and history of world conflicts are filled with the engagement of foreigners in their military and paramilitary formations. This engagement was mostly two ways. One is the hiring of mercenaries or volunteers and the other is the forced engagement of soldiers to serve in military or paramilitary formations. However, I want to point out clearly and unequivocally some legal dilemmas concerning the proposed legislative solution, because we are one of the few countries that is going this way and wants to prevent its citizens from participating in the military or paramilitary formations of some other countries in some other conflicts that do not directly concern the Republic of Serbia. Let's say, one of the questions that can be raised is, what if a citizen of the Republic of Serbia participates in an international conflict, and does not commit war crimes, and is not a terrorist, but voluntarily puts himself at the disposal of those whose side and justice and law, which wages liberation wars, in this armed conflict protects civilians, protects material goods, is extremely prominent in humanitarian work, and then when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, we qualify it as a terrorist under this proposed law, as someone because it was possible, I say, assuming very human in these conflicts? The latest conflicts in these areas, conflicts in Bosnia, conflicts in Kosovo and Metohija, have shown that there have been too many foreigners, primarily Islamic fundamentalists. But what is undeniable, our observation, is that, not that they were not convicted by their countries who sent them here or closed their eyes to the fact that Islamic fundamentalists, above all in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo and the Metohija, are committing terrible crimes against the Serb population, but the eyes of those facts are closing the international community. On the one hand, we may come to some paradoxes, if one of our citizens participates in a humanitarian mission, without the approval of his own state, then he may be convicted. Secondly, now in modern armies and highly developed countries of the world with which we have exceptional co-operation, there are regular military units called the legions of foreigners, which are just made up of foreign citizens who are not members of the state who formed the legion of foreigners. One question arises – will we be the only country to be held under criminal and legal responsibility to undermine citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, for example, participate in the legion of foreigners in France, and that will not be done by any other country, nor France? A number of legal questions are also raised in the case of a possible court dispute. What would be the concrete action of committing a crime? In order to prove the place and time of execution, the degrees, territorial and personal jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of the court to collect evidence and the possibility of collecting evidence on the territory of another country that is in armed conflict, how to provide witnesses, material and all other evidence? The promoter did invite the international community to collect and deliver this kind of evidence to the Republic of Serbia, but it is only an invitation. I'm talking about what's about to come concrete in practice tomorrow. Due to the fact that, not only in the history of world conflicts, volunteers and mercenaries were constantly mobilized and that Serbia was mainly the victim of such volunteers and foreign mercenaries, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I agree with the political motive for the adoption of such a law, and it is primarily about, let us be quite open, the current conflicts in Ukraine, Syria and some other current world conflicts. I would like the final text of this law to be perfectly clear and clear so that in the application of this law we would not have any problems that I have pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10012	The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10013	Dear fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, the basic proposal of this law seems quite normal, but there are some formulas in the proposal that are unclear or ambiguous. First, say “who in the intention of committing a crime. ” The question – who is he on the globe of the earth, except God, who can judge someone's intention without someone showing physical or part of that intention? It is our proposal, and we have made an amendment, that intervention should be carried out and that it should be complemented, essentially, by a good proposal from these two members and that it should be said, who shows by his actions the intention to commit the crime. However, we will talk about this when the amendments are discussed. Having a previous law, which we are supplementing today, which was also quite good, I think that today's addition to the law is intended and can only be interpreted as another strong mechanism that the ruling regime is trampling on its insinuators or, specifically, Bosniaks and ethnic Albanians, as it was in earlier times when they were in power. I will speak specifically today as an authorised representative, or president of the SDA parliamentary group Sandzak PDD, i.e. The Bosniak Sandzak and ethnic Albanians, based on experience. Please, I will speak from the aspect of the experience of the Sandzak Bosniaks and ethnic Albanians in the application of the law. We'll talk first about who will apply this law in practice. The first question I want to explain and the second question - how will this law apply in practice? These are two very important issues, especially because of the fact that in state authorities with public powers they are not adequately represented in the prosecution, judiciary, police, Bosniaks, ethnic Albanians and other national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. I particularly wonder how this law will apply in practice when we know that our own attempt in August of a month to distract the High Council of Prosecutors and others who have appointed judges and prosecutors, that since then, the entire canon of attacks by the ruling regime against the Sandzak Bosniaks and even the legitimately elected representatives of the Serbian Parliament have taken place. First question - who will apply this law in practice? Prosecutors, judges, police officers, representatives of all public and secret security services, had the opportunity to watch through television how today's current Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia on 31 January of this year, without any respect for the dignity of a person of insult to a member of our parliamentary group, Mr. Shaip Kamberi, and as I quote, said a fellow in our environment -- he has been experiencing insults all afternoon by the legitimate representative of the Albanians of the Presevo Valley. Secondly, this same President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Police also current, on 24, 25 and 26 September, sent a clear message to the Bosniaks and their legitimately elected representatives, and this was listened to, I say, by prosecutors, by judges and police officers, and by all members of public and secret services, and it is well known, in our country, that there is one, we call it, an unofficial institute of projected loyalty, and everyone whose career depends on the ruling furniture, that today, with this new law that we are passing, with these new members, will treat the Bosniaks and Albanians in practice, and that this is what the prime minister, and the first vice president, and all the strongest people in this country, I say, the political elite. Unfortunately, that's the practice. If we mean it, I'm talking about a man with a great life experience, I've been in the middle of all this for 24 years, I'm talking about applying the law in practice, so I'm talking about applying it in practice. If we have experience of being a legal state here in the 1990s, and today the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nikolic, were all part of the ruling political elite of the 1990s, they were all, at that time also in the application of some 17.300 Bosniak families in Sandzak, harassed parents in front of children, and children in front of parents, in search of so-called. A nonexistent weapon, a weapon that never existed, or was found. I wonder now, we have a new law, how prosecutors, judges, cops and all the other secret and public services will act, whether they will enter the Bosniak and Albanian families in the Presevo Valley at night, and ask for it. The lists of some volunteers for wartimes, or maybe money or a fake passport, and again to harass tens of thousands of families and finally say – sorry was a mistake? I'm particularly talking about this issue because of the fact that no one in this country has ever been held accountable and has been enlightened by serious crimes against Bosniaks, beginning with missing, kidnapped, mass murder, etc. until the abuse of these families in the alleged search for non-existent weapons that never existed or was ever found. I speak on the basis of one experience aimed at convincing the ruling set that this law and these changes are withdrawn from practice until conditions are created for the application of the same. I said, basically, the intention is good, the law is good, the proposal is good with this language correction where we talked about intent, the assessment of intent, until until the alignment of the national structure in minority communities with the national composition of the prosecution, the police, the judiciary so that this law can be properly implemented. If the law is enforced by judges, prosecutors, police officers, secret and public service from the majority nation over minorities, then we return to the 1990s, which would be dangerous for our country and for all of us. Therefore, my proposal is to withdraw this law from practice until the national structure of Bosniaks is brought into line in all state bodies with public powers, and in line with the national composition of the population, in areas where Bosniaks traditionally live, i.e. in the municipalities. I think it would be good if we did it for one fact. As you know, we have a bad experience at a time when today's state leadership, if what I've listed, was at the very top of the ruling political elite, the then SPS and the SRS regime, and when the ugly things were happening, the disastrous things that led to the sanctions of our Serbia-SRJ, which is why we had...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10014	Please come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10015	I'm back on the subject, I'm just talking to Mr. Chairman about law enforcement. Allow me, I speak from a point of view, the experiences of Bosniaks and Albanians who have suffered evil and for which we have been imposed sanctions. I would love to, and I said that I was taught from practice to leave the law until we agree on the national structure of employees in the police, the prosecution, public and secret services in the judiciary. In all these environments to agree that it wouldn't have happened if your voice had been beating you again if you'd repeated what the reigning furniture of the 1990s did. Today's state leadership, as you know, has experienced a new political rise, but it hasn't changed a little bit towards minorities, that's what this is about. That's what we're worried about. I'd hate to be in a situation where we're looking for protection as Bosniaks because we don't have a country of origin, we're looking for protection from the OEPS, from the Council of Europe, or from the Security Council. I speak responsibly as a responsible man, as an experienced man and as a well-intentioned man. Instead of these changes, I suggest...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10016	Mr. Ugljanin, once again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10017	... that we as a state adopt an economic programme of measures and apply this economic programme to practice, to employ young people, to restore the dignity of young people in Serbia, that young people can get married, to get married, to get married, to form families, to fill kindergartens, to fill schools, and not to engage in giving another mechanism into the hands of the ruling set to trample minorities and to impose sanctions again. I've said very specific things and I'm going back to the first formulation. The first wording that will be the subject of this amendment is that instead of saying - who, in his intention, stands - who, by his own means, shows his intention to carry out the crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10018	Mr. Ugljanin just to understand better, you're now saying you're going to hand over the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10019	We handed him over and discussed this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10020	You gave him up. All right. Since the deadline is up, in your speech, I thought you were just going to, so I'd let you know that the deadline's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10021	But I prepare my colleagues in advance to know what the amendments contain, for the very phrase - who in intent, is in man's head. Until someone shows their intentions with their actions, it's very disputable. Who has the right to judge someone's intention other than the one god? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10022	Thank you, Mr. Ugljanin. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10023	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the very signatures of this bill and myself personally and the New Serbia parliamentary group will support these amendments to the Criminal Law. What I want in this exhibit to particularly underline is that these young people who leave as citizens of the Republic of Serbia on the side of the war on return to the country of origin are a serious security threat and we need to simply, what my colleagues said in the previous part, show a clear political will and send a message that such things will not be tolerated and above all that these changes are one impulse to Serbia's security services to take care of prevention first. That's what I want in my presentation specifically to underline. It cannot be tolerated that 20 young people from Belgrade's short-pants airport go to Turkey and that the media has been shaving for days about leaving for Syria via Turkey. What is an even bigger problem is information that can be heard in the media that there are companies in Serbia that are recruiting people and that is so-called. Dogs of war. This is a special problem and therefore special attention must be given to RS security services. This is where my colleague just asked - who's going to enforce this law? There's someone who can enforce this law. This is not at all controversial, but it is important that the effect of implementing such a law be such that it simply increases security in the RS, that no one has the fear that when these people return from those wars, especially in Syria, they can cause problems at this time in Serbia or in their countries of origin, because this initiative exists in all countries of the region. Dear counterpart Omerovic has already mentioned that some countries, such as Macedonia and BiH, have already passed such laws. What is particularly important, some countries such as BiH has decided to adopt a resolution in parliament as a political declaration where it has made clear and showed political will to prevent such things. What's unfortunately true is that one, if I may say so, the mix of religious and social impacted most that a large number of young people go to these battlefields. What's also a little bit amazing to me is that our ancestors went to war as volunteers. My ancestors have been warring as volunteers for the Austro-Hungarian army against the Turks, and our generation has fallen down today to pass a law like this and to sanction our citizens who go to war in other people's countries. I would have to ask, simply a little clarification, and I think that this will be the first attitude for the viewers who follow this transmission interestingly, fellow Omerovic, first of all, to say that it is changing Article 386, that the Serbian citizen, who is participating in a war or armed conflict in a foreign country as a member of military or paramilitary formations in a foreign conflict, and is not a citizen of that foreign state, as well as a member of an official mission of an international organisation whose Serbia is, will be punished by a prison of six months to five years. If the work referred to in Article 1 has been done within the group, the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment from one to eight years. What I would ask for as an explanation, this would not be disputed if the next position was not to go where a rigorous punishment for who is the organizer, or who organizes the group is particularly imposed. Teached by other examples, Croatia prepares a similar law, for example. A greater punishment for those who go as individuals and the greatest punishment for those who are group organizers, but it is a milder punishment for those who go into the group. Why am I saying this, colleague Omerovic? Because we have a large number of young people who are barely adult, and some are not even full - age. We also have a large number of girls who leave seductive promises. We have a bit of a illogical situation that now if someone goes to a group of 15 or 20 girls and boys in Syria for the war on their way back to being more punished than someone who's a grown man and is 35 or 45 years old and knowingly goes to a foreign war. A fellow Chikiriz mentioned, I would like to hear from you and an explanation – what will happen to citizens of the RS who are or will be members of the regular armies of foreign states? An example of the Foreign Legion has already been mentioned. What's going on with that? I also have to say an interesting thing, when we look at history and examples from history, a large number of volunteers have been at war on the Serbian side, starting with the Serb-Turkish war in 1876, where a large number of Russians and Italians have been organised in the Serbian army. Not to mention the conflicts on the ground of the former Yugoslavia. I want to particularly underline that it's undeniable that the organizers of the group, and it's good that you predicted it, get the most severe sanctions. It's a good thing this acceptance in the National Assembly is going to give me the impulse of even more severe, above all, the struggle of security services that as few people go to these battlefields as possible. On the third hand, of course, this interest will be reduced to improve the economic position of each of us living in the state of Serbia. What we have in this small misunderstanding, I would like to ask you to explain to Omerovic, simply for the sake of our MPs and for the sake of the citizens of RS. The idea itself and the moment in which it is brought is completely justified, clear. In this you have absolutely our support, both mine and my colleagues from the NS Parliament Club. We will absolutely support this decision. What is most important is that this law and this decision should be brought to life and bring concrete results to make our citizens on foreign battlefields as little as possible, because thus Serbia's state will be safer for the lives of both us and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10024	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a national emissary, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10025	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, the proposal to supplement the Criminal Law is a law that has only two members, but its importance is proportional to its size. This is a law that has experienced its international verification before it even entered the congregation procedure. For reminders, maybe a little bit about the history of this law. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia proposed the same law to the Assembly for adoption in November last year. Pre-election activities and congregation breaks have moved his adoption to this day, I think, almost a year. Unfortunately, due to the first proposal of this law, in November of last year, the SDPS suffered some criticism and I want to believe it's just a lack of understanding. Fortunately, political-legislative assumptions have now been obtained, and the adoption of this law has been supported by all the group MPs, all the parties that form the coalition, namely the SNS and the SPS and, of course, all the other coalition partners. I sincerely hope that in the day of the vote and all the other MPs of this call will uphold this law. What's the point of supplementing the Criminal Code? This law identifies new crimes and defines sanctions for the perpetrators of these acts. In Article 386 of the applicable Criminal Code, guilt is defined by part-aggressive war, which says in its position 1 - who calls for an aggressive war will be punished by imprisonment from two to 11 years, and in Section 2. - who orders to wage an aggressive war will be punished by prison from 10 to 40 years. With the amendment of the law, two new crimes are added – participation in war in a foreign country, military or paramilitary formation, and another act – the recruitment of other persons, organisation, promotion, training and funding in the execution of the same crime. This law is a good example of state awareness practice on the need to pass laws without other people's pressure, without the need to comply with some foreign legislation. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia has long recognized the obligation to criminally sanction the perpetrators of these acts, but, of course, the inspirers, organisers and financiers. The UN Security Council adopted a resolution on 24 September calling on member states to fight illegal warfare and terrorism. The resolution calls for the adoption of national laws sanctioning accession, and I will quote -- jihadist groups, such as the Islamic state and Al our front, and that this accession is considered a serious crime, the end of the quote. Fortunately for the country's reputation, the SDPS proposed the addition of the Criminal Law even before the resolution was adopted, and our representatives and the UN, above all Minister Dacic, were able to praise this fact in their address. This law has experienced several more international affirmations. In its September 26th issue, German newspaper analyst Zi Deutsche Caitung cited countries recruiting terrorist organisations, apostrophe of Balkan countries. Departures from Kosovo, Albania, BiH, Macedonia are listed. At the same time, the paper points out that Serbia plans to tighten the Criminal Law, which would discourage the recruitment of terrorist fighters. At the same time, US Ambassador to Serbia these days, Mr. Michael Kirby, said a law that sanctions the departure of Serbian citizens to the fight against extremist organisations in Syria and Iraq is expected. Dear People's MPs, it is clear that Serbia is now showing this law that it is ready for regional integration in the fight against terrorism, but also at a wider, global level. On the other hand, this law has a significant within state value, because this is the way to affirming a real picture of a Serb soldier. Evidence that Serbia is ready to participate in UN peacekeeping missions and EU peacekeeping missions, of course, we already have. A time of voluntary and heroic warfare and anonymous Spanish fighters is past. Today's volunteers, apart from financial benefits, love promotion, snakes photos on social networks, give interviews to world TV stations, send an incorrect picture of the tradition of warring a Serb soldier. A particular problem is the quasi iconography that is sent to the world and creates the wrong idea about Serbian citizens in general. In most cases, these warriors are not part of organised military formations and further criminalise their participation in conflicts. Recitals of these crimes have long been felt in society -- various mental disorders, aggressive and deviant behaviors, illegal weapons and increased crime of returned warriors. It is important to point out that this law is an invitation for all citizens to return immediately from the battlefield. Fighters in the name of Islam, Orthodoxy, pansies and all those quasi crusades should remain in the past century. This law comes at a good time, as it clearly speaks about Serbia's stance towards the Middle East conflicts, but also in Ukraine. Finally, I would like to thank again all MPs who supported the SDPS' signatures in passing this law and I sincerely hope that all MPs will vote in favour of this law in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10026	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10027	Thank you, Your Honor. My fellow MPs, it's a little strange today's debate, it's strange that a law like this suggests a group of MPs, MPs who support the government. Somehow, it was logical for someone from the government, or the government, to make such a bill, to be here today a prime minister, minister of justice or interior minister, in view of all the effects that the adoption of such a law has on Serbia's legal system and Serbia's international position. At first, I would like to say that our parliamentary group was not offered to join this initiative. I don't see why it was foreign and why it couldn't come out of these frameworks of position and opposition and at least to offer to parties who don't support this government to possibly support this law. I think it'll be an enigma for me. I don't know if my colleague Omerovic, who is authorized to present this law, will have any explanation for that. The fact that we're discussing without the presence of anyone from the government is very unusual. We heard, and that is true, that the adopted Security Council Resolution 2178 made the commitment of Serbia to include and punish criminal acts involving, as the resolution says, acts that pose a threat to foreign terrorist fighters, including preventing radicalisation with terrorism and recruiting foreign terrorist fighters, including children, preventing foreign terrorist fighters from crossing their borders, obstructing and preventing financial support from foreign terrorist fighters and development and implementing their intentions. Anyway, there's a lot of talk about that resolution, about terrorism and terrorist fighters. Our country already has members in its Criminal Law who sanction participation in terrorist acts. How much yesterday we could read the news that after more than six months, the D.A.'s office has detained three people, filed charges of the gang's crime for committing a criminal act of terrorism in Article 391. Criminal law, recruitment and training for the conduct of terrorist acts referred to in Article 391b of position 1. Criminal law and terrorist financing under Article 393. Criminal law. So there's a legal framework for the work of state authorities. The state authorities were doing something. We also saw the result of that job in this prosecution of organized crime. The question is, what will the adoption of such a law have in practice, what will it have in practice, and what message should it send? The message that Serbia is taking part in the international fight against terrorism has been around for many years. All governments in the last 15 years have sent such messages, participated, more or less, in international actions in the fight against terrorism, first and foremost after 2001, when Resolution 1373 of the Security Council on the international fight against terrorism was first adopted. That's when these crimes entered our criminal code. These changes talk about participating in a war or armed conflict in a foreign country. There's nothing to talk about terrorists. It is said of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who participate in the war, as members of military or paramilitary formations in the conflict and talk about the need to punish persons, whether they are Serbian citizens or not, who are doing recruiting or encouraging others to leave the Republic of Serbia and go to war. I have to ask a question - how will this law be implemented, how will it be proved that someone participated in a war or armed conflict in a foreign country, as a member of military or paramilitary formations, how will evidence be obtained in such an investigation, and how will this eventually be sanctioned? In that sense, I think it's a much more important article 386b. which is the proposal of this law which speaks of the punishment of those who act in Serbia and recruit persons or encourage other persons to commit a criminal act of participation in the war and collect both material resources or train. It is today, unfortunately, in Serbia there is, but I think the state of Serbia has had a legal basis to deal with and to deal with this until today. Whether there was enough political will, that's another question. Whether there was enough knowledge, that's also a question. And if there was someone from the government today, maybe we could get an answer on those questions. This is how we're denied for an answer. We have heard an explanation of the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the law, as a good will, a statement of goodwill for Serbia to take one step more. But the question is, has everything been done so far and has the only lack of this crime prevented the state of Serbia from doing anything more? The state of Serbia is located in a region which, as viewed by the international community, is very suitable today for recruiting young people for participation in radical Islamism and is the question of whether only adopting such changes to the Criminal Law is something that will prevent it in the future and reduce it? I think it takes a much wider society action and that only threats to prison from six months to five years are simply not enough to deter some young person who today decides to go and participate in a war. The very fact that someone makes such a decision shows that fear of prison is not something that can stop that person from doing so. Also, because there is no one from the government, we cannot hear what the state of Serbia is doing in international co-operation, regional co-operation, sub-regional co-operation, which is extremely important, in order to prevent first and foremost recruiting people going into the area, the question of definition is now being raised here, whether wars are being fought or terrorist actions are being carried out? Therefore, the adoption of this law without clear support and a clear government plan and executive authority does not mean much. That's why it's unusual for us to propose this law isn't the government and that it's not someone from the government here. If we adopt this law and there is no clear plan that the government will act in the coming days and weeks and all the measures it will carry out, only the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law will have no effect. From Serbia, they are not just going to this battlefield, which is why this resolution was brought to the Security Council. Serbian citizens also go to other battlefields, sometimes for ideological reasons, sometimes for material reasons. The fact is that today there are large multinational security companies in the world, as they say, practically private armies that hire primarily people with experience. One of the world's most famous and possibly largest was the Black Water, now Akademi company, which has tens of thousands of people engaged in various countries in the world. The question is whether their engagement, which is legal in terms of companies operating under the law, will have some contracts that ensure the presence of these people in certain countries, but they are in areas that can be defined as war or armed conflict, what will be their fate, and how will Serbia's legislation view their engagement in this case? Will they fall under this member of the law when we adopt him or not? I want to believe that the time of some ideological wars is behind us and that wars in the future in the world will be less and less. Unfortunately, some indicators show that the world seems to be going in the opposite direction. Today, there are 64 war conflicts around the world and the question is whether the number will decrease or increase in the future. The question is how will people here possibly go to some countries where there is an armed conflict to participate perhaps not in some paramilitary, not in some, I don't know what kind of units, but those international large companies, legally go to some countries because of the economic crisis that exists in Serbia and the inability to allow here a decent existence for themselves and their family, will they fall under the influence of this law? So I'm saying, it's hard to talk today and look at all aspects of this law because we don't have anyone from the government. We regret that we were not consulted when the law was proposed that we join such an initiative. I think in that case maybe a message to the government would be anywhere and where it's stronger to consistently and fully enforce this law. It will remain to be seen, when the law is passed, what effects it will have and whether it will be able to reduce the departure of citizens of the Republic of Serbia outside our territory into some war conflicts. It would be interesting and the question is what would it look like in the 1990s if such a law were then part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia or SRJ, what was it called then? Would you be witnesses to all those wars that were going on and left an indelible mark on all of us who survived that time? I want to believe it'll never happen again. Whether a law like this will prevent it, I don't know, but, well, I hope so, because only peace and regional and international co-operation is a model that I believe can lead to the prosperity and better life of all citizens. We will support the adoption of this law even though we were not offered to support it as a proposal, but we will monitor how the government will deal with changes and will there be other activities besides the amendment of this government law? I repeat, the reasons why people leave Serbia are not because there was no law, not because there were no criminal provisions, but because some other reasons led to young people leaving Serbia and participating in war and armed conflicts and terrorist conflicts outside our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10028	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word has been given by the MP and head of the SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10029	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, and Article 150 have been broken. I will read the first position of Article 150 – that the right to propose laws and other general acts has every MP, every MP, I repeat, the Government, the Parliament of the AP, or at least 30,000 voters. I see nothing controversial when a group of 199 MPs proposed a law, because we heard criticism coming from the same parliamentary group that when the government proposed a law, then the National Assembly is a flow water heater. When the National Assembly and the MPs propose legislation, then why did the government not propose the law? I don't know what needs to be done to make everything right and right. On the other hand, it is somehow silenced that all MPs have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here is the presence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, here is an opinion on this bill, only to be read, and what is read means, in principle and in general, the Government accepts the Bill on the Supplements to the Criminal Code submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 199 MPs, given the justified reasons for the adoption of the law, etc., etc. Here is the presence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and an opinion on this bill. On the other hand, we are present, that every MP can propose the law and neither the assembly majority, nor the SNS parliamentary group has been consulted before the submission, let me say, about some laws that are good whether you will be. No, the law was proposed, and we immediately ran to the lobby to make statements that some horrible majority did not want to support such a law, without any consultation, without any communication left. I am pleased that the parliamentary group of the previous speaker will support this law, because I think that this is how we share politics and share the same values, that we do not want the tracks of our country and our citizens at the crisis and bad focal points in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10030	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I feel I have not violated the Rules of Procedure, because I am not obliged as chairman to explain what all MPs should know. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement about this? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. No, okay. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Professor Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10031	The Honorable Chairman, you have just injured Rules of Procedure 103 because Mr Babic pointed to an injury, or did not point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. He spoke in two minutes to which he called, and after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, so he actually used it as a replica. You were obliged to take away his word. So, in no word did Mr. Babic say how you hurt the Rules of Procedure but spoke as if he had the right to a replica. That's why I'm holding the chair, please take care of it. Mr Babic is not a representative of the government, nor is he a representative of the government. So he's not here to represent the government's interests, no one from the government is sitting here, and that's why he's not authorized to report and represent the government's interests, and he was obliged to talk about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10032	Mr. Veselinović, allow me the right to interpret the exposure of someone and his request for damage to the Rules of Procedure. I assumed, and I had to listen to the MP to see if he wanted to say or indicate any injuries by the chairman. I listened to him and said his comment. He was pleased with my comment, actually my explanation, so I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: No. You don't want to. All right, and thank you. On the agenda, authorised representative, or head of the DS parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10033	Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, we have here a proposal to supplement the Criminal Code that shows that we as a society, as a state, are doing business after events. The Democratic Party will support these changes regardless, although we also have objections to be seen in several amendments that we have submitted. But basically what we're discussing here today is the non-Sandzak, Islamic militant fighters and volunteers or fanatics, whatever we call them, this applies to all conflicts. It is noticeable and symptomatic that the proposings do not mention Ukraine anywhere, and this is the same as the law against Islam and the Islamic state, i.e. amending the law equally against those Chetniks in Lugans and other parts of Eastern Ukraine. That's the first thing. The other thing, it has inaccuracies and the proposer is aware of it. We talked about it with the promoter. I think we have a good opportunity to further specify that, to avoid the unwanted consequences of applying this law to people who have nothing to do with the paramilitary or other formations, or extremist organisations abroad, and these things can be solved through the acceptance of the opposition amendment, it seems to me above all. Clearly, in today's world, as a fellow with 64 war conflicts that are bulging and some of which are on European soil, we must, as a state, ensure, above all, that people who are recruiting organize and if you want to send "good enough" under the precepts, people who have strong beliefs, no matter where they go, but also those who go for money to be "dogs of war" or to be members of extremist organizations, they should primarily be shot, exactly as this law, i.e. These amendments to the law. So there's a snake bench, which we as a society and as a state have to break up, but we'll never break it, if we don't change the school system, if we don't change education, if we don't change the catastrophic economic situation, if you don't give those young people in Sandzak or other parts of Serbia perspective, you don't give education, you don't give compulsory high school, if you don't give them clear historical examples, if we continue with a schizophrenic political story, completely wrong youth education. Then you will always be under the pretext of “good people. ” You know, there's no mountain or steel stronger than someone's belief, no idea has a bigger mountain. Let this idea be a thousand times wrong from my position, but I'm afraid this law will give, it seems to me to be a necessary framework for a country that has a problem for dozens of citizens who participate in the war, if you want armed activities that are contrary to both civilization and common sense and peace and any normal co-existence on this planet. So we have to have a framework and in this sense we support this proposal. However, we can never put in the same basket the famous heroes of the Spanish civil war, according to a colleague and people who go to fight for the Islamic state and who take pictures and put it on Facebook and Twitter and that Blagoje Parović and Koca and Peko did not have Twitter and Facebook, does not mean that they are the same as those who have it today. They'll never be the same in anything, because they're heroes, and these are terrorists and thugs. And why is that? Well, because they're fighting, they're fighting evil and fascism, and they're cutting people's heads off in front of the camera. That's the difference, not the means of communication. What if tomorrow our unfortunate world hits a new focal point, a new blizzard of fascism somewhere, the choking of human rights, the destruction of parliamentaryism, the use of military forces against citizens, we will, too, who would eventually go to fight this fascism to be under the influence of our own law. When I asked the promoter in my best interest, what's the biggest problem with these changes, that's exactly the biggest problem. We don't have a cantar gentlemen, we can't measure what justifiable conflict is, and what is extremism, fundamentalism, terrorism and everything else. Now that's part of the same political will, and that puts time and the world we live in. Some things are doubtless for us and for most of us, and some things will certainly not be on the same line between us and most in the future. So what do we do? Who is this expert who will measure whether the one from Sandzak is the man who goes to fight in Syria, or for the Islamic state of terrorists, which is undoubtedly by my arches and arches of my party, and what if someone goes to fight some dictator who shoots at his people? Then how do we do it? What do we do? How do we measure it? It's a lack of law. Another flaw is that it is unclear how those who go are terrorists, villains, murderers, etc. will be determined. How are we going to determine that, that is, how is the prosecutor going to measure it? Will they apply the same to those Chetniks in Lugavac? Yes, I'd like to go to Pochuch, who's making statements that he's out of reach, he's only responding to the court of the Lugan Republic, and our court doesn't matter. It's an insult to this country and it's not a political matter, it's not a party matter. Why don't we talk about it today, but we're talking about what is an evil no doubt, which is what's called the Islamic state. This is not a Sanjay law, this is not a law dealing with one region in Serbia, this is a law that deals with all possible battlefields, military hotspots, extremist, terrorist, paramilitary formations that go there, organize people, train them, send them and give money for it. They take money for it. These people need to be targeted first and foremost by these changes, and I think that's why we could have determined this more precisely. It is also true that the wisdom of the promoter has avoided the trap that the law is applied retroactively, because if it were half the congregation's majority, it would not sit here, but would go to prison. That's true. Since I knew you'd react like this...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10034	Mr. Stefanovic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10035	So why, what's the problem, I'm interested in your interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10036	Right in your line, but if you don't know what the problem is, it's not worth explaining to you. Go on. You called half the Assembly... Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10037	I'm very precise. Less than half the congregation's majority would be somewhere else, not here. So read the text of the bill, those involved in the armed conflict as part of irregular units, and not in the peace mission, are under the penalty of this law. If retroactively applied, regardless of motives, patriotism and everything that we have served here for years and decades, if any internationally recognised state, would come under the influence of this law. It's as clear as day. There's no need for someone to be angry now, because we never want to argue with most of them, not today. I respect the motives of the promoters, I think that the motives are good and noble, I think that the motives may after a long time have been the need to come out to meet what time brings us, and time brings us a lot of problems and times and events have shown that a lot of young people from Serbia, our citizens, have gone to fight by me for the wrong goals, for the wrong people and with the wrong motives, but the law, as a law, will not prevent them. No, I'm afraid not. If the law had the power of its own to prevent, we'd be organized society a long time ago, like we didn't. What will prevent them is to specify the provisions, what will prevent them is a clear view of the prosecution and the ability to determine who these people are and who the organizers are. I'm not sure that I'm texting leaves enough space. It's some kind of a technical and operational grudge that has nothing to do with our commitment to support this motion to amend the Criminal Code. We believe that as a society and a state we must protect ourselves against this evil, but we believe that even when we protect citizens from sometimes extremism, terrorism, then we have to do it by going from ourselves. You know, there are those of us who are accused of being terrorists and extremists, and who knows what's going to happen tomorrow, and these provisions are the same for me as our code that's being prepared not precisely enough, allows most of us to do what comes to her mind. So, if this didn't end up as a political game, and I believe it isn't, and I know it isn't, let Mr. Proposer and the Proposers make these things a little more specific, that we still take care of what's going on and in what directions our people are going around the world, what jobs we're doing, and we make sure that someone who doesn't need to do anything doesn't fall under these provisions. They mentioned people and regular units in which our citizens are members and what will happen to them? What about the people who have dual citizenship? How are we going to apply the law to those who have French and Serbian and are in third countries and are within the framework of the units involved in the conflict? Will they go to jail for that? So that doesn't say it in the text, and the D.A.'s gonna have a problem with that, according to me. You have one of our citizens who's also a citizen of another country, he's part of some regular unit that's involved in an armed conflict, like Africa? Then what happens? It doesn't say, and I think we need to make that clear. We are a country that was once a source of stability, a source of healthy ideas and a source of freedom. These people today who are trying to do what no normal civilized man has liked exactly by the cloak of democracy and freedom covering, destroying it. It's world trends today, so tomorrow someone's going to wear a cowardly cross, say, or they're going to fight for the so-called. "Islam state", defending it with its freedom of movement, opinions, actions and all others. There's a thin line between that. In order not to slip into an authoritarian society, since we have already, I would say, in some other areas, we step fat in that direction, I think the right way out would be in an additional clear definition of concepts, such as armed conflict, such as war, things that concern someone's engagement, but the law does not measure anyone's belief. Confidence is immeasurable. The law can't stop it if someone believes something, no matter how wrong it is, he'll realize it. After all, we have examples in our political life every day, that if anyone believes in something, however wrong it is, it leads Serbia to ruin continuously. For example, an example of our government and you simply cannot stop it by law, but we will try as a minority to prevent this proposal that is positive in essence, there are not so many sharp edges that destroy the tissue of Serbia's citizens' freedom, while at the same time protecting ourselves from extremism and terrorism in a situation where our country, it seems to me, positively, and our government responds positively in terms of relations and the fight against so-called. ‘Islam countries’. To say no to never say anything positive about this government, it is positive, but, well write down the date, but it has to be braver, it has to be clearer, and if you want, the principles are such, the criteria are such that they have to be applied to all cases and not just what suits you and so I say don't tell Syria and you don't tell Ukraine. He can't do it without each other, ladies and gentlemen. One can't be a hero and the other can be a terrorist, take care of it. It is the core of our problem and territorial integrity on the one hand and Moscow on the other. These are difficult dilemmas for our government and in this sense this law, in my opinion, should help us to go through this great challenge as a state and society, a huge challenge because people who believe in the wrong things are always stronger than the ones "smart" who are silent. The problem is when those smarter ones start talking and when they stop talking, how the rules of state regulation will channel them so that we as a society don't fall apart. This law seems to me to be a good guideline in that direction, but I repeat, without education, without education, without a clear relationship with young people, without a valuable system that will be strong and attractive enough, against extreme ideologies that young people are subject to, without economic progress, without one built road in Sandzak, the only one - the only road, without one factory that works in Sandzak, how do we think we respond to their internal fractures and how do we think they stop being fertilely soiled for all possible terrorists, extremists, organizers of crazy ventures in the Middle East? We can't just do it by law. So, understand this address as an appeal for a little more of a country-wise strategic approach. This law is, in my opinion, just a small part of the mosaics that we all have to do together, regardless of which party we are from, to complete that Serbia will finally be a happy society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10038	Thank you. The word is Zoran Babic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10039	Member 107, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to cloud the water of consensus in this room and support the acceptance and consent to vote on this bill, but what I really can't get past, which is that half of this hall is being accused, or that between half of this room there is a sign of equality with extremists, terrorists, butchers, even though in this room there is a third of the ladies who couldn't and wanted to, they couldn't be late, even though people like my distinguished colleague, Mr. Jovičić, who was born in 1987, and at that time he was in elementary school. There is a sign of equality between colleagues sitting in this room with extremists, with butchers and with those for whom such a law is passed. I cannot go beyond that, although I welcome yours, the truth is a soft rehearsal to channel and to introduce into one dignified and civilized course of this session, especially because such a connotation and such an accusation is by the Assembly and colleagues themselves, regardless of which side and on which half of these halls are on, when it comes from a fellow who, in the heat of political struggle or in a desire to return to power, has announced and desired a Ukrainian scenario in Serbia, breaking, fighting, burning, and then, at the very least, it is hypocritical to accuse others of such desire and such extremism in it. As far as this law is concerned, I hope that this law, as well as all future laws, will be passed and passed not because of repressive and criminal measures against those, and as the proposed representative has said - a dozen Serbian citizens will be prevented from making decisions and no one will go that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10040	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. I tried to threaten the right of the minority in this room, to warn the previous speaker, and I believe that such words were not appropriate to this high house, but you are witnessing that this criticism did not bear fruit and I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. I thank you. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10041	I'm asking for precision, Articles 106 and 107. No one said what you and the previous speaker have now insinuated. So, please, very precisely quoting the provisions of the amendment of the law, the participants in the war and in the armed conflict outside the regular units, the slayers, the murderers are the subject of other laws that regulate it. Please don't, I know that some here are used to putting other people's words in our mouths, don't, as chairman, allow and violate the Rules of Procedure and then say as an excuse to the previous speaker – so I tried. What did you try? The text of the amendment proposal has been quoted. It's just that why someone keeps identifying themselves, I don't get it, really. No, I understand that you mark me as both a terrorist and an extremist, I understand that, and a screenplayer, we've heard that a thousand times, and I can accept that in the heat of political struggle, as they say, but I cannot accept that I'm putting one of my distinguished colleagues in that category that's listed. I said that the law is applied retroactively, members of units outside the regulars, participants in "foreign wars", at the moment of international recognition I said, would come under the influence of this law, without qualifications, without determining who it is. After all, you know, we've talked about it before and I have this personal history, so I'm not saying it in that sense, I've said it very precisely, and you, Mr. Chairman, although you've been struggling with the lion's pressure of the advances, yet today you've given up a little bit and at one point you've accepted their rhetoric, you may have dropped the concentration I don't know, but you've really held heroically, they've pushed you hard, you haven't given it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10042	No, but at one point I imagined that I wouldn't be able to run this assembly either today. You were talking about something hypothetical, you were talking about something in the law. I think you've skillfully tried to... And I don't think this is for our controversy right now. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. I think I was right when I tried to focus your exposure on the course of this session on this subject. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10043	I accept that a man can make a mistake, but I have consulted with colleagues who are very carefully and focusedly following the course of the session and speaking to each individual. Otherwise, Article 108. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman. Clearly, and not once, but twice, is the previous speaker, and you tried to warn him, said that half of the MPs here wouldn't be sitting in this room, but would be prosecuted for participation in war activities in the environment and beyond the borders of this country. We know who this law applies most to and thus puts a sign of equality between half of this hall, half the colleagues, I don't know on which side, and those scenes we see in both Syria and Iraq, but also in one part of Ukraine. After all, when someone is so upset and constantly suggesting that you and such are sitting on the other side, I will ask you if the previous speaker may have known or knows about Ljubisa Savić Mazer as part of his party in Republika Srpska and what he was doing there and what he was leading and how he was doing? We can't forget some things and just get everything wrong on the other side. After all, by 2012, the party of the previous speaker created the fate of this country and created the fate of each of us individuals.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10044	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10045	That we were wrong about the law, and I only took the gun to hunt, and that I was wearing it, not to shoot, if we were wrong about the law, why aren't we prosecuted by 2012? Why aren't we staying where we'd like to be housed Mr. Stefanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10046	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I hope that's not what a colleague wants. The word has an authorised representative, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10047	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, and above all, with full respect, respected legislators of the law that we are discussing today, this whole discussion today points to something that should be a very clear message to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is that in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and particularly in the interest of the Serbian state, this law is inescapable and necessary. That is why the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support the law in the voting day and vote for the adoption of the law. The political message to citizens is at the same time the fact that this law distances Serbia from all that can be placed as a kind of mortgage, and that is all that fellow MPs from both the Serbian Progressive Party and the opposition and the other party proposing. It is not only the "dogs of war" that acted on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in particular in Kosovo, on the territory of BiH, but also the citizens of Serbia who acted in the same way in Ukraine. The European Union and the European Community expect Serbia to pass such a law. The European Union and the European Community expect Serbia to distance and make a clear determination towards everything and all the phenomena this law indicates and I repeat, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group supports the law. It does not matter if it takes into account the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia and in the previous assembly, headed by Prime Minister Dacic and at the current meeting with Prime Minister Vukic, has made moves to raise Serbia's reputation in the international community. Such a reputation cannot be undermined or discredited by the way and phenomena covered by this law. But what needs to be pointed out from the point of view of the profession, here political views are very clear, political messages unequivocal, but from the point of view of the profession should accept certain suggestions. I will not, dear fellow Members of the People and Proposers, including myself and my Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, identify them as critics, but well-intentioned suggestions, and these well-intentioned suggestions are as follows: a lot must be done to specify the text of this law, much must be done to specify the qualification of criminal acts which are covered by the law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Why am I saying this? Because I'm starting with what I'm doing in the vocal system, as part of the justice system, as part of the justice system, as a lawyer. The law must, in a practical sense, say that it gives full effect. When will they give in practical terms the full effect? The moment the qualification of a crime, dear colleagues, becomes clear. Self-participation in war or armed conflict is not an incrimination, because war as a phenomenon and a phenomenon does not entail conflict and anti-law. We often divide wars into defenses, sometimes persuasive to country, aggressive, but a war as a phenomenon cannot have the treatment of illegality. There must be a clear incrimination that in the war there seems to be a certain illegal action either it is a atrocities or it is a genocide or it is an interest for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to benefit themselves in the territories of other countries in a way that implies illegal action. This is what the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group suggests, to be an integral part of the text, and thus a clear qualification of the law we are discussing. Why am I pointing to this? Because the second part of the text refers to military and paramilitary formations. We have to admit all of us here together as proposing that in this sense there would be a problem in the practical application of this law if there was a process of criminal acts. Military and paramilitary formations can also be categorized in different ways. One of them is the legion of foreigners who, in some international legal sense, qualify as a military formation that has its own legitimacy. If it has its legitimacy and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia participate in it, what and how well do we know and have facts, then the question is, what is illegal in the functioning of our citizens through this military formation, and the law speaks of military formation? That is why the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group is appealing, well-intentioned, to improve the quality of this bill, so that it will, in a practical sense, achieve that goal which at the same time confirms the motive of the Socialist Party of Serbia as being more than justifiable, which is that we know the incriminating action and what the incriminating action is. How to process a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who acted through the Foreign Legion? We can't. In addition, it is important that the accompanying legislation be followed by this law, for which I will repeat that the inevitable and necessaryness is in our legislative system, to emulate and edit. Do we have all the states where there's so-called. "dogs of War", international agreements, do we have reciprocity and reciprocity? If we do, that's good, 'cause every perpetrator of the crime is going to be prosecuted, but what about where we don't have it, what about that situation? In addition, another practical question arises – can action on the territory of a foreign country, which involves defending physical integrity, defending life, protecting property, be qualified as a criminal offence? On the Committee on Justice, when we discussed this law, I cited a pessimistic example -- me and my fellow and fellow MP Meho Omerovic can have the same interest, which is completely justified and legitimate, the assumption is that we have property in BiH territory, allegedly he in Foca, I reportedly in Sarajevo, I apologize, in Gorazd. What if there's a threat to our assets in the war? The defense of our property is our legitimate right by the Constitution guaranteed and no one can challenge us. It absolutely states that there is no incrimination in this situation, that there is no unlawful action in this situation and that in this situation no one can be convicted of something that is not illegal. It is therefore necessary to accept as a well-intentioned suggestion something that has been pointed out, which is that perhaps, at this point, I would point out, perhaps, the Committee on Justice as a Committee of Justice, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia, could, by amendment, be entitled to, in time between the meeting in principle and the meetings in particular, to respect these suggestions and to improve the quality of this law through the amendment, because we did not define everything well and we did not specify everything well. One question has been raised which we MPs from the position, not the opposition, have asked – what if the operation of our citizens on the territory of another country is not under arms, is not in uniform? What if it is the work of health workers who have humanitarian activities and activities, who are obliged to treat you humanitarian activities and actions? Can we double-cross them under the crime scene category? We can't. We can also apply what our Government is doing, what our Government has been pushing for for two and a half years, and that is that our legislative regulation is being embodied with the regulation of the European community. I have an indicative decision by the EU Council on the fight against terrorism. That decision has 13 members. Some of them can be applied in this situation, they can help us really get this law to get that physionomy, that legal framework, the legal form that is necessary for the right from the point of view, and the fundamental criminal right, to be the real law, which is that in the law it stands as an incrimination that it is a serious destabilising or destroying of the basic political, constitutional, economic and social structures of any country, whether it is Syria, Ukraine or anyone else. This kind of formulation as an incrimination can always be applied to the perpetrators of the crimes that we are now pointing to, and that's how we can solve this problem. In addition, the well-intentioned suggestion of the SPS parliamentary group in this respect is the application of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Some fellow lawyers have affirmed, through the media, that we do not allegedly need this law, that we do not need it allegedly because we already have provisions on terrorism in the Criminal Code. That we have provisions on terrorism, that's true, but it's even more true that the provisions on terrorism and everything terrorism implies did not cover situations in the criminal-legal sense of the words covered by this law. Therefore, the SPS supports both motivation, reasons and everything that has been brought by the promoters, and it is not a small number, it is an impressive number of proposings, 199 MPs, to propose, and we are today to discuss this law. In the end, I want to point out something else that I think is very important. We have a situation where at least the lawyers know well that for every crime and criminal act, there must be two constituent elements. One is an act of committing a crime, the other a place to commit a crime. There are also a store and a crime scene outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We must not allow ourselves this luxury, this exclusiveity to remain incompetent, since both the shop and the crime scene can be in Ukraine, can be in Syria, BiH, anywhere there is a war hotspot. What if our jurisdiction is questionable? What if the foreign war facts state did not systemize this crime, it did not cover it in its criminal law? In this situation, we must take into account the existence of reciprocity, i.e. the reciprocity and the existence of international contracts with these countries or a large number of countries. Without that, we won't be able to effectively enforce this law. Let's go back to what's the point. The point is that the Republic of Serbia has undoubtedly done much, first of all, because this law has come to the Assembly's agenda, and it will do more if we adopt this law. They will do even more before we open the doors of the European community or the communities of European countries more widely to become a full member of those countries. It will do even more to the fact that even though we had the mortgage of the infamous state, as they once called us, with war-to-human motives and with war-to-human action, it is now doubtless that this mortgage is falling and it is doubtless that we will never bring it back again, and one of the dams that we have ever again is just passing this law. I would ask the promoter to have in mind the most well-intentioned suggestions of the SPS parliamentary group, that he knows colleague Meho Omerovic, as someone who, on behalf of the Proposer, has made the bill, that not only will this law be supported, but that we Socialists will give full support later and when we adopt a new Criminal Code, because then it will be the right time for all of this to be seen as certain gaps from the point of view of the application of criminal law, we can correct it. I'm sure we'll do that. Thank you. I would like to point out once again that the SPS parliamentary group in Voting Day will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10048	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10049	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about the proposed supplements of the Criminal Code, I can't help but look back at the exposure of one of my predecessors, Mr Stefanovic, because as a member of the SNS parliamentary group, and I believe my colleagues, I feel hurt. Namely, his reference to the proposed additions to the Criminal Code and Observations if the application of these proposed supplements were retroactive, then many of the SNS MPs would not sit here and come under the influence of this law. I believe that would not be so, because representatives of the SNS parliamentary group have always been on the side of truth, justice and freedom. I am afraid if retroactive application of the proposed addendum of the Criminal Code were to be, that many from the party to which a colleague Stefanovic belongs would come under the pressure of the proposed additions of this law, given the fact that in the past, for cheap money, they exported the revolution and imposed democracy through the resistance movement, so that there is no concern for the SNS parliamentary club and in the case of retroactive application of this law. As regards the proposed addition of the Criminal Code, it is two members in chapter 34, which concerns crimes against humanity and other goods of international law, where an aggressive war is imposed after Chapter 386 and 386b. Yesterday, at a session of the KIM Committee, we found, analysing the activity of radical Islamic groups in our space, that there is a real danger to our country's security and that danger is growing, given the number of our citizens who, individually or as organised groups, are today participating in armed conflicts or wars in other countries. That fact cannot be ignored. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia has joined the international community in the fight against ISIL movements or the formation of the Islamic state of Iraq and Levanta. By adopting an addition to this Criminal Code, it is practically proof that Serbia sincerely wants to participate in the fight against international terrorism by means of a wide range of measures. The comments that have been made regarding the accuracy of the proposed additions to the Code of Criminals, especially fellow counterpart Nejo, which he has made, I agree, but I think the proposed additions are quite accurate and clear. One member refers to individual participation and intended sanctions and another member on organised, planned departure, groups, orientation, training, funding, which is a more serious crime. We cannot in the proposed supplements of the Criminal Code provide for any possible variations in the application of sanctions in the event of these crimes, but you will agree with me that the competent judicial authorities in the collection of evidence will zealously assess whether our citizens participated in wars and armed conflicts in other countries for material reasons, which, in my view, represents a milder form of criminal activity, or for ideological reasons, which is, in my view, a more serious form of crime. What I see at this point as a problem, that's two problems. There's one in the evidence of these crimes. I agree with my predecessors. However, the Republic of Serbia is a signator of many international agreements on the exchange of classified information, intelligence and security. We believe that in proving these crimes, we will work closely with many countries, most of the countries of the international community, who today are fighting a radical Islamic movement. Another problem that has not been mentioned here – how to treat the application of these criminal acts in the event of armed conflicts or aggression or incidents armed with our population in KIM, given that many leading countries of the international community of KiM do not consider it an integral part of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia considers KIM an integral and inalienable part of its territory? Does this mean that in the case of serious incidents and armed conflicts and serious crimes against our population and the ethnic community, our KIM enclaves that citizens from Serbia's territory cannot come to help their fellow citizens? Therefore, it is necessary, possibly, to adopt a new Criminal Code or to modify cases in which our citizens are not prevented from participating in armed conflicts and wars outside our country. I think this is a key problem. Objections have been made that the application of these supplements should be brought into line with the harmonised national structure of judicial and police authorities. There may be an objection in place, but this law is not directed towards any ethnic community, so neither according to Bosniak nor to the Albanian community in Serbia. The law applies to all citizens of Serbia, so that all objections concerning the act are not established. On the other hand, the graduation over the severity of the crime, when it comes to the application of these two members of the law and the identification of the participation of our citizens in the Syrian battlefields and the participation of our citizens in the war in Ukraine, has been deprived of any basis. In one case, it is a project to form an Islamic state with strict Sharia laws, a threat to international peace, and in the other case, the Ukraine case, it is about fighting the work of the citizens of Ukraine for their rights, which they consider to have been denied. So each identifying one and the other situation is, in my opinion, degutant. Comments, if Serbia were to pass these laws, and that many countries in the environment had already passed these laws, I would say they were not correct or some of my predecessors were not informed. It is true that the Republic of Montenegro has come forward with a proposal, but has not yet adopted a proposal to amend and supplement its criminal code, which concerns these proposed changes. It is true that BiH before us has brought these solutions to its criminal code and provided for such sanctions, but you know, given its multiethnicity, to problems, to the close link between some radical Islamic groups from BiH, that the country has been forced to precede these laws. I think the good proposed additions to the Penal Code are. I think they're accurate. I believe that it will be a problem only in the part of the evidence of the crime, but I believe that the objections concerning the fact that the competent investigative authorities must not apply the measures as long as the citizens of Serbia, in terms of the conduct of these crimes, do not specifically act contrary to the provisions of these members of the law and I do not think they have the basis. Based on this, in the case of data and knowledge that competent services have that a group or an individual has weapons and that they are ideologically on a platform of radical Islam, it would mean that we must not carry out the confiscation of such weapons, but we would have to wait for the particular individual to present his activity, which is, from the point of view of prevention late and has negative consequences for the security of the country. To conclude, I believe that most in this House believe that these two members of the Criminal Code are not disputed and that they should not be politicised and I believe that those who have objections, such as my colleague Nedja, will, in the day of voting, support these amendments, or supplement the Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10050	The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10051	Thank you, Chairman. Art. 106th and 107th. So, Momir Stojanovic, in his presentation several times, presented offensive things for Mr Stefanovic, who is not in the hall, which is not correct, and on the other hand said that for relatively small couples he exported the revolution to other countries. You didn't warn him, and you had to do it, because you broke the Rules of Procedure and that's why I answered your word. On the other hand, Momir Stojanovic said that all members, i.e. representatives of the SNS, who are now in the Serbian Parliament, have always, therefore, always been on the side of truth, justice and freedom in past times. I think if that's how he's trying to wash the past someone who was a member of the SRS, who's in line with that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10052	Mr. Balsha, please don't turn this into a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10053	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10054	You've given me enough arguments to see that I haven't broken the Rules of Procedure. You've got 10 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10055	Let me tell you one thing. You violated the Rules of Procedure by not giving me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10056	You've got 10 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10057	Thank you. As far as we're concerned, members and representatives of the SRS in the past have never been on the side of truth, justice and freedom, and that's the attitude of the DS, unlike the attitude of the SNS we've just heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10058	Mr. Bozovic, I am obliged to give you an explanation. I did not interrupt the previous speaker, because I assume he found himself offended, accused, as is the interpretation of the bill. And according to the interpretation interpreted by MP Stefanovic, I also imagined whether this could come under the influence of the law. So Mr. Stefanovic's interpretation was such that a large number of MPs were offended in this room. I allowed one speaker to interpret it that way and feel hurt and offended and that's why I didn't want to interrupt it. Also, by pointing to this breach of the Rules of Procedure, in some ways you said yourself, Mr. Stefanovic as head of the parliamentary group has had enough, if he thinks that the Rules of Procedure has been violated by mentioning his name, that he also reported, you didn't have to play him a lawyer. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: He was not in the hall. Here, now she's in the O.R. Just so we don't get into the controversy right now, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? If not, Alexander Jovicic reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10059	The Honorable Chairman, Article 108, is in charge of this session. I think you have a duty to remind the People's MP again who's shown a passion and I'd ask you to always respond to the mention of the SRS, because there's no representative of that party here. So don't talk about those people who aren't here or those parties that aren't there, on the one hand. On the other hand, I don't see why Mr. Momir Stojanovic's truth hurt who said what was going on and it obviously hit you, since that's how you confirmed it. And since you're in pain, the truth is that you, your party, with the Dvors, have organised certain protests in Belgrade's territory, which means you don't mind such things. You said you were exporting the revolution. You didn't export it, you imported it. The moment you destroyed the city of Belgrade, you burned down this assembly where you sit and live with it today, because citizens are paying you, and that's a shame. Everything can be achieved in one democratic way. Follow the example of the SNS that wins the election, in a democratic way, and which leads this country in a democratic way, protecting human rights, implementing reforms and fighting for the better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10060	I thank you, Mr. Jovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10061	Article 27 and Article 27 107th and 108th. Mr. Chairman, you could have given a word to the previous speaker to abuse her and like this in two minutes to fire up the bursts of replicas, instead of pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10062	Mr Stefanovic, just as a member of your parliamentary group, Mr Balša Bozovic, did, so in the same way I had to allow another MP. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10063	But you are not in the same way, Mr. Chairman, because if you were in the same way, you would warn Mr. Jovičić, as you warned Mr. Bozovic. You see how quickly we see inconsistency, which, unfortunately, exists all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10064	But, Mr. Stefanovic, unlike Mr. Jovicic, that rule was introduced by Mr. Balša and it was only a trace of the replicas that happened in a few minutes. Here you go, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10065	He's not Mr. Balsha, he's Mr. Bozovic. I think you and I understand each other well. I believe that a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure was committed, because it was used for the replica, because it was false because it was spoken of by some exporters of the revolution, for small money or for large money, that someone had burned the Assembly. You should ask Minister Velju Ilic for the burning of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10066	Now you're turning this into a replica. Mr. Stefanovic, I won't let that happen anymore. I thank and set a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Mr Meho Omerović has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10068	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, please sit down so we can hear each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10069	Mr. Sutanovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10070	With great attention, I have listened to all the heads of Parliament's groups and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have spoken in this very important way, I would like to say a significant point of the agenda, the bill we are talking about. I thank all the parliamentary groups, especially because all the parliamentary groups, except one, which we heard from the mouth of those who were empowered or who spoke on behalf of these political parties, supported and suggested this law in principle. I think it is a very good message and a clear message of this House's readiness and determination to do something that is an amendment to criminal law. On the other hand, I owe my colleague's apology to Mark Djurisic for asking the question publicly and directly why they were not offered to sign this proposal, which was signed by 199 MPs. Simply, the bill went through an emergency procedure, it was changed from that version that was offered in July of the month in the assembly procedure, because we had agreements and talks with the ministry representatives and with the representatives of the security and prosecution services, to get as high as possible the text that would be found today in an emergency procedure and at that speed, you saw from 208 MPs of the ruling coalition, not all of them wrote, but 199 of them. So here's this argument, before I talk about this law. We've heard a lot of objections and suggestions, but what I want to point out in particular, I think we're all together aware of the fact that in every country, every country is differently regulating its own criminal policy. We have, of course, brought these provisions and these new criminal laws into line with our criminal law. I would remind myself that, based on the remarks I could hear carefully from most speakers, there were ambiguities in the text and inaccuracies. Right, they're right. All the colleagues who say there's a lack of precision and some additional clarity here. We need to be aware of one more. Neither the most perfect, nor the most precise legal norm can cover all cases of real life that are always, you will agree, a step ahead of the regulation that has been passed or which we will bring today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, when this is adopted, in terms of, above all, complexity, dynamics, then unexpectedness or uniqueness of a particular case. Because of this and what counterpart Stefanovic said in his presentation in front of his parliamentary group, he also mentioned through the question – what is justified, it is therefore impossible and by regulation to predict all possible situations, and you will agree in particular not in this area which is indeed, indeed, specific, in which neither scientific theory nor practice has yet been able to establish precise, widely accepted criteria regarding the assessment of an armed conflict. So we're also witnesses, let's be realistic, honest and honest with ourselves, that in the world you have countries, representatives of one of the relevant actors on an international stage who define themselves as an example. A liberating fight. Others again treat it as separatism and terrorism. Unfortunately, on our own case, we've felt best in these areas the lack of these widely accepted criteria. On the other hand, there were objections concerning something that we as authorised representatives, or the legislators of this law, did not clearly define. First of all, it was thought of some concepts. They're both right about those colleagues and colleagues who spoke. Why? Because I would remind you of something few people know. I don't think all MPs in the RS Assembly know either. The fact is that even in the UN, which is the bearer of something called a single response effort, what is said to be a colloktial, international community to terrorism, as the most pronounced threat to national, regional and global security, despite the adoption of the principles of a global anti-terrorism strategy and the adoption of a series of binding international instruments, and the unprecedented efforts have been made for years. Even such and such UNs have not yet adopted a unique and widely accepted definition of terrorism. So you're aware of this fact-finding situation of what a complex problem we're facing today. The solution to those cases that are borderline, which are both there and there, as our people say, which are unique from the point of view of the amendments proposed here, and the addition of the Criminal Code, I am absolutely sure that there will be judicial practice, namely that the competent courts in Serbia, based primarily on the principle of justice as a constitutional category, and not on the principle of national determination, as we have heard from one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, will replace the incompleteness and ambiguity of the powders of the legal norm that is in this case at all. So this law was necessary to Serbia. What is particularly important and what I want to point out is that there would be no confusion, this is not a law that will only apply to some representatives of national minorities, as we heard from one representative. This is not a law that tramples the rights of national minorities in Serbia. This isn't the law on Syria, this isn't the law on Ukraine. This, therefore, is neither the law that we are passing for the sake of the EU or the Security Council, this is the law that we are making, above all, for ourselves, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because this law, as I said, is necessary for us as a normal legal state. On the other hand, we had objections - what would happen if some conflict occurred in which citizens of the Republic of Serbia would go and defend their property, which is currently on the territory of some other states? You know what, the applicable law, the criminal code in the third chapter, in Article 20, speaks of extreme necessity, and it's not a crime that was done in extreme need. The ultimate necessity exists when the work is done to remove the perpetrator from his good or good long, at the same time an unhidden danger that could not be removed in another way, while evil was done is no greater than the evil that threatened him. What do I mean? So we already have in the existing law provisions that what certain distinguished colleagues were talking about were not treated as a criminal act. To be extremely banal, you know what, when you go into surgery, which our people say, God forbid, in a surgeon, you're being seriously injured, but does that surgeon commit a crime? No, I don't. So, above all, I am pleased that this law that was proposed has come to support, as I said, the greatest part of almost all MPs in the Assembly. We heard this from the heads of parliament groups and he will give a really necessary framework, as my colleague Stefanovic said, but I think that the case-law and everything that the state authorities and institutions will do tomorrow will get one instrument in hand and a mechanism that will also be used through international police co-operation, through co-operation with security structures and services, not only in the region, but also in other countries of the world in order to get complete information about everything that can be relevant and relevant to our citizens who eventually go to places where conflicts of war will take place in which they would possibly participate. This is a law that sends a clear message of what is forbidden and what is a crime. As much as we criticise this law, as much as it is missing, it may be in practice to show or deny what we are proposing, and this is much better, you'll agree, from a period so far when we haven't had any of these crimes as acts that are being treated by the Criminal Code. So I am convinced, and I believe that first of all we will send a message and deter, that is the essence, to demote citizens' departure to crisis areas and take part in conflicts. This is not a law that applies to only one, another or third country. This is a law that will apply for future times, for potential conflicts that will be possible in some third countries at any part of the globe to be found. In that sense, I want to remind myself of some numbers that are unfortunately still incomplete, at least when this space is so-called. The Western Balkans is at stake. According to security services, the largest number of countries in the region and the EU, or the United States, we already have more than 1,000 people registered in this area, whose names and last names are known and who are involved in some conflicts on some battlefields. So, of 140 from Albania's space, 230 from Montenegro's space, 20 from Macedonia, 340 from BiH territory, a few dozens from the territory of our Republic of Serbia, these are data and figures on people participating in some of the wars. This law will send them a clear message – go back to your home, return safe and sound, return to your families and you will not be subjected to this criminal code. If you stay where you are right now, make sure this law is applied to you. So I, once again, want to thank and think that this is a big step, that this is both a good day for both the judiciary and for the state of Serbia, which in this way sends not only a message to its citizens, but also sends a message to a world in which it shows, improves and raises its international credibility and respects and those international commitments that we have spoken so much about. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10071	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10072	Thank you. No doubt these amendments to the law were necessary and it is good to introduce these crimes. I think that's one good news from this House, a rare good news in the last few years. I thought of why such a good bill was not offered to all MPs and to take advantage of the opportunity to show a single clear view, but the discussion that followed today explained why it did not happen. It's probably better that way, because if I had been offered I'd sign it too, and my colleague Vlado Pavicevic, but I'd be ashamed now who I signed it with.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10073	Mr. Zivkovic, please. You're talking about other people's MPs with disrespect.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10074	I'm talking about my attitude, please stop provoking. If you're willing to become a teacher, you'll enroll in an appropriate college and let me speak my mind. The reason for this is, of course, wars in Ukraine, Syria and the part of the world and the participation of some people who represent themselves as patriots, ideological like-mindeds, adventurers, and I don't know what, who participate there, and Serbia had to make its way away from such people and it was well done by this bill. The New Party MPs will support the law, there is no doubt there, but that is not enough. It is enough that the whole society, and primarily the government in Serbia, to contribute more to creating an atmosphere that would prevent these young people, that, because of the money, whether because of the delusion, whether because of ideology, under quotes, they go and risk their lives and the face of this country. That's not happening right now. We have one minister now in the government, it's the minister of justice, who said a year ago that the most beautiful event in his life was that in Cheveningen he shared chocolate with one accused of war crimes. We have a situation where state tabloids, official messengers, under quotes, celebrate the participation of some journalists, under quotes, TV faces, bikers, Chetniks, and I don't know what everything is and they're made of real series, reports that they are great Slovenians, great fighters for justice, and I don't know what everything. We had questions about what if a new Spain happened, what if some fascism fell for its people somewhere. If a new Spain happens, then Serbia should as a state support the fight of that people, and not after decades of dealing with people who probably went out there for the best, but did nothing and, on the contrary, created the impression here that this ideology that was against fascism was something much better than the same. That's what I mean by communists. Therefore, if Spain happens, Serbia as a state should be against it. What if there's someone in the Foreign Legion? A great concern for some Serbian citizens who are in the Foreign Legion, so what about them? Which good did Serbia get from any of the Foreign Legion, whether it was our citizen or not? I don't understand that thinking, about the legal protection of Serbian citizens who happen to be in the Foreign Legion. It's pointless. There were all kinds of invitations to the '90s. In the 1990s, this nation, with his own will and against his will, was warring. I think that's enough for a five or six generations in advance, and that's why it's good to have a bill like this, and that this bill is not just about changing the Criminal Law, but that it follows a big social action where the conclusion should be that there's no reason for anyone from Serbia to go anywhere to war in anyone's name. Finally, Mauser was mentioned and one party that was difficult for that year, in the 1990s, someone in this congregation could defend better than me. This Mauser had nothing to do with the party, the Resistance had nothing to do with the war. Finally, we have given two amendments, or one amendment, which covers all three points and which provides for an increase in penalties. I think that's the right answer. Otherwise, the criminal policy in Serbia is low, it has to increase in many places and it might be good to start from here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10075	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10076	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, after my fellow farmer's appearance, I don't know if I should continue to support this law. Most likely, this law, regardless of its very noble intentions, is likely to have some of its own inadequacies. I was distracted by what the previous speaker was saying, so that he would be ashamed to sign it, etc. with some of your colleagues. He used very amazing terms. That doesn't surprise me, because I'm afraid it's honest that it's a pent-up cheek that can perform the way he thinks it's supposed to. He was talking here about participation in some paramilitary formations, etc. I believe he's very familiar with paramilitary formations, but I'm afraid he's avoided serving the regular army.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10077	Mr. Risticevic, please, you have not received the right to reply, but to report in the agenda. If the previous speaker was, not to give a qualification, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10078	This is a proposal to supplement the Criminal Code, to participate in war and armed conflict in a foreign country. I want to say that the previous speaker did not serve our country, I'm not sure about that, so in 1999. It was my introduction to the discussion of this law. I believe that the promoters have signed this law, and I, too, am from one noble initiative to do a few things, first of all, to protect the lives of people in those foreign countries, if possible, and, also, one of the noble intentions of the legislators of this law is to protect the family from the people who go to the foreign battlefield. So, that these people there don't die, secondly, that their families don't suffer psychological and other suffering while they're at war, and they can also be exposed to the pain of a fatal outcome that can result from the involvement of certain individuals in armed conflicts in a foreign country. I can fully support that part of the bill's noble intentions, but there was a difference between us. As far as this law is concerned, I think we're going to have to pass a more complete law, that these are not complete solutions, that these are the solutions that are necessary to protect the international community, first of all, from the growing tension on certain territory in Iraq and Syria, that there are developments that are in Ukraine, but I don't think we've succeeded in a comprehensive way within this short time to resolve these issues. The law speaks of armed conflicts in a foreign state. When someone is a member of the military or paramilitary formations of the party in conflict and is not a citizen of that foreign state, as well as a member of an official mission of an international organisation whose Serbia is a member we have a problem here. We have many people who are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So this law will only apply to citizens. To a population that has not regulated citizenship and which has no circumstances, citizenship will not apply, and on this side this law is incomplete, because it will avoid sanctioning, say, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who do not have citizenship and will participate in these conflicts. On the other hand, the definition of paramilitary formations does not involve terrorist organizations. So someone who joins a terrorist group abroad doesn't have to be sanctioned by this law, although the consequences of its terrorist action, regardless of what state it acts and whatever nationality, the consequences of a terrorist act, which may even be individual or linked to a group, can be far greater than if it participates in any war conflict. Also, the paramilitary formation is an expression for auxiliary units, say in the United States, even in Russia. So if you are a member and a citizen of Serbia, if you are a member of that unit that is an auxiliary unit of the United States, this law can treat you if you are an auxiliary unit somewhere in the world and you can come under this law strike. For these reasons, I predict that we will have to do a special law that will treat this. Also, this law says - military and paramilitary formations in conflict. What if we get into some dictatorial army that has no other side of the conflict, but it haunts civilians, etc? In that case, you will not be sanctioned in the way this amendment and the addition of the Criminal Code foresees. Also in connection with this law, the law says that sanctions will apply to citizens of Serbia who are not nationals of another country, which means that if I have dual citizenship and, God forbid, I participate in a conflict that may happen in BiH, in some surrounding countries, if I do not have dual citizenship, I will answer, and if I have dual citizenship, in which case I will not comply with the rules of this law. It is impossible to pass a law on such short notice that would be comprehensive. The law certainly has this noble, humanistic trait, but we're going to have to do a lot of work in the next period. As for citizenship, it is possible to go to war in Ukraine voluntarily and if we go to Kiev, there the government of Kiev will give us citizenship, and if we go to another side we can't get citizenship. So, joining certain military formations and paramilitary formations can be such that you get citizenship first, and then you participate in the conflict, and so the citizens who participate in a country are placed in an unequal position, one will respond, and the other will not. Also, this law is not, and therefore I propose that it be a special law in due course, envisioned by people who are accessing military formations and are not soldiers, or by doctors who access these units from the most noble intentions, wanting first of all to help endangered soldiers, but also endangered civilians in the region, and to be made subject to the circumstances of that formation. We're not like the promoters, nor are we working out a case of forced involvement in the war. So if you're in Libya at an oil plant and a terrorist group comes in, or a paramilitary formation, and forces you to participate in that formation, because otherwise you're going to be shot, you're in a certain way, at least in a certain period, participating in military and paramilitary formations abroad, and you didn't want to. Therefore, by supporting this law, I would like to say that in the next period, we will have to embrace it a little more comprehensively, but I understand that "Ryan's saving ranks", that it is very necessary to save the international community, which is partly responsible for the development of the situation on many battlefields. I have an understanding of their problems, given that we were covered by war ourselves. War is the worst thing that can happen to some people. So I can support this law until we pass a new law that regulates that, let's say, in our history, there are many noble volunteers who have participated in our territory and helped us get rid of others, but there are also many of our citizens, our citizens who have participated in helping free some other peoples. I'm going to list Alex Dundic, so I'm going to list Zikica Jovanovic, a Spanish man who killed two Serbs, and that's how Yugoslavia's resistance against the Germans began. They're Spanish fighters. Also, in our history there are known volunteers, let's say that it is Russian volunteer Alekseivić Rajevski, described by Tolstoy in the book "Anna Karenjina" as the Count of Vronski. So we have many examples that teach us from history to participate in some wars to be noble. I don't think at this point, in this constellation of power, we can't exactly separate that noble part from that second piece of mercenaries. With this in mind, this law should be supported, but also in some future period, to remove any shortcomings that this law makes. With that in mind, we all know about Chee Guevara. Under this law, if Chee Guevara were a Serb and had, by any chance, gone to Bolivia and refused him, he would have had to answer if he had returned, or he would have been sentenced to ten years in prison for organising guerrillas in Bolivia. So even if he survived, he'd have to answer. With that in mind, there are volunteers, persons who, at their own request and without coercion, enter some armed forces out of noble intentions, to participate in liberating and humanitarian missions, and on the other hand, we have a current situation that requires this solution. With this in mind, as one of the proposings, I can currently support this, but given the development of the situation in the world and the region, I think we need to work through this law, given that there are a lot of inaccuracies about different terms. I think that first of all, the initiator who offered us had the noblest intentions to protect not only the territory of the Republic of Serbia from possible events when certain volunteers returned, but that he had the noble intention of protecting them, their lives, to protect their families and to support this law. Everything else I've been saying should be considered. With that in mind, I don't want to historically burden any party, because many of the parties participated voluntarily in wars on the territory of the former SFRY during its breaking. Many, according to national religious lines, took part in the civil war. In this regard, I would not want us to accuse each other, but rather to adopt this law on the reasons why this law is being passed, but to bring in a slightly more complete legal solution in the near future, which will determine what it is, because as I see it, the law is not even terrorist organisations and groups, and terrorist groups may not be military and paramilitary formations. With that in mind, I think this law should be developed anyway, but I will definitely support it, like everyone else, since the necessity of the law changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10079	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a folk MP, Aida Ćorovic, and let the National MP Stefana Miladanovic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Corovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10080	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I don't think there's a person in this room, and for God's sakes out of this room, who should be more pleased with the adoption of these amendments to the law than I am. I don't know if my esteemed colleagues know, but I'm the only person in this room, and unfortunately, in the whole country, who's had permanent police security for almost a year just because I warned of the danger of growing radicalism in the region from which I came. Of course, I will support this law in the voting day, and in doing so, I agree with my colleagues that we need to work a little more closely. Certainly, our parliamentary group has already given amendments, but I also agree with colleagues who have said that more attention should be paid to this law anyway. I am sorry that dear colleague Meho Omerovic did not invite us to sign the law together before he entered the debate. I want to ask a few questions and, in some ways, I might be defocusing a little bit with just what we call strictly legal regulations. So is the legal framework just enough for us to solve this very painful question? I don't think so, and I think the whole society is a serious loser if something a little more serious isn't done on this subject. It seems to me that even today in this debate, there have been several concerns and several inconsistencies and I think the wrong conclusions have been carried out. I'm afraid it would be bad to get a bad impression and a dangerous impression that Islam is primarily terrorist, that it supports the most radical, that we say movements, etc. I think it's important to explain the concept of jihad. When I was collecting data and I already said, I've been working on this topic for almost two years, and far from being an expert, but I've certainly learned a lot of interesting data and I've become, like, a reference person. When I asked Islamic theologians what the jihad essentially meant, they told me the original jihad means taking the fat off the milk. In a truly transmitted vision jihad means cleaning yourself from bad thoughts, from a bad deed of any kind of sin. So the hardest task a human being has is to work on himself, to work, to clean himself from what is not good. Unfortunately, over the last years or decades in the world, jihad has become a misread term, and unfortunately I think that the most evil done to Muslims is that those radical groups within some countries, primarily Arab countries, have contributed to Islam, that Islam is interpreted as radical, as the litter of the worst traits and something that is practically against humanity. That's why it would be so bad, if someone had already talked about it, it would have been very bad to send that kind of message to Sandzak or the Raška area, however you want. I think, in fact, my example suggests that Bosniaks living downstairs and Muslims are actually the biggest victims of what happens to the organization of young people who go to Syria. What my knowledge is, in fact, is that behind all this that's been happening in Sandzak or the Raška area, there's nothing more to it than naked organized crime. They're people who are first hunters of human souls, they're dogs of war, they're mostly people with criminal records. These are people who deal with human trafficking, drug trafficking and arms trafficking. There's one more thing I want to share, and I think few people have been informed about it. It's not just the Bosniaks or the Albanians and only the Muslims who go to Syria, if we're already talking about battlefields like Iraq and Syria, my knowledge is that one of the most active cells, the most active among them is that it's in Zemun and Pancheva, and that, I even have some names, that some of the key operatives are people who are not Muslims. They reportedly received Islam, but these are people who primarily have a criminal record, and people who have had a serious, serious criminal record for many years, who have dealt with drug trafficking most often for years. I think they're actually the most important point in the whole story and they're the ones doing the most terrible things. There are a large number of young people, because of everything that's happening to us, because of the terrible economic crisis, to be pushed to the margins, because we're a devastated society, and unfortunately for years we've been sending terrible messages to young people. What we society does through education, through the media, through any other institutional framework, we don't send to young people tolerance messages. We send them messages of xenophobia and fear of others. We have young people who unfortunately choose the worst ways of organizing and the worst ways to show their dissatisfaction. In a way, each of us today, if we are already talking about amendments to that law, needs to feel a little bit guilty, should feel guilty, because we are all in a certain way and guilty and responsible for pushing these young people aside. It's about very organized people. About very organized groups that have their own systems, their own way of recruiting these young people, how they hold them, how they build their confidence, how they train them, and how they send them to the battlefields. It doesn't matter to me if someone goes with Syria and whether he's Muslim or goes to Ukraine if he's Orthodox. It's about people, if I turn off, of course, those who only do it for money. It's about people who have deeply disturbed moral attitudes, unfounded people and people who can be time bombs when they return to our country. It's certainly not gonna be the same young people we kind of pushed where they went. Last year, an intensely threatened young man, a 18-year-old boy who could have been useful to our community, who could have finished school, had finished college to be a good son, a good fellow citizen. Unfortunately, he chose a terrible path and ended up there the way he ended up. I was defeated, no matter what the scariest threats he made me. I was defeated when I found out about his death. I was defeated as his fellow citizen and as someone who spent many years dealing with young people for not somehow reaching out to him, or me or some other of my colleagues, which we are not as a system, as a society, as a state managed to talk him out of it. Why is it important that I talk about it today? I said a little while ago, I may in some way be the biggest victim of these very young people, and there will be more if something doesn't be done and something doesn't start to change. I am sorry that my colleague Stojanovic is not here, I would like to correct it simply, he spoke about the organisation of ISIL and said at one point that it was the creation of a state under hard Sharia laws. It's not about the state with the hard sheriath laws. Islam and Sharia rights do not advocate killing innocent people. It's very important that we know that these people who go there don't work for Islam, it's not Islam. One who knows Islam knows that it's a religion that preaches tolerance, which is social religion and which is the heritage of what's been said in the previous two religions, which is that if you killed one human life, you killed the whole human race and vice versa, if you saved one human life, you saved the whole human race. So it's not about these people fighting for the values of Islam, it's about people behind whom there's nothing, I'm going to repeat it, and I'm always saying it in my texts, it's about people who only have crime, organized crime on their hearts, not Islam. What exactly are we supposed to do? I think some of my esteemed colleagues have already spoken before me, in conversations with people who deal very seriously with these issues, with people from the police, they told me -- you know, Aida, when it comes to the reaction of the police, to react to the judiciary, we came to the last wall of defense. We've missed many precious years to work with young people. It seems like it's about time and now it's not just about New Pazar, the region I come from, it's about all of Serbia and it's about the wider region. So this is a story in which we must all work together and Kosovo, and Macedonia, and Bosnia, and Serbia, and Croatia, but also a wider region. Since white Alkaida, or white terrorism, is increasingly spreading and is not absolute, I repeat only the "perse" right for some young Muslims to come to such organisations. As far as our country is concerned, I propose that we create a multidisciplinary body that would have been more institutional, which would certainly have to be maintained, representatives of the police, the military, the security service, also the MUP, but which in its composition would have to have people who are representatives of education, because our education system, unfortunately, makes it all that these young people continue to push into the ghetto, continue to create discord, and no communication. They don't know each other and they're scared of each other. Important participants in such a single body would be representatives of the religious community and not only of the Islamic communities but of all the communities in our country. Of course, the necessary partners are the media, but it seems to me to be a very important Assembly Security Committee that could practically be the driver of this topic. I am not a member of the Security Committee, but I will certainly offer some of my knowledge and possible ideas on how to continue working on this subject in the coming months, and until we have a better economic situation, until some things as a society are understood and changed, I think we will still be buried in these problems and we will talk, unfortunately, about these young people, about lost human lives. So, please, let this be our key thought today. In some ways, we are all responsible as a society, that we have spent these young people in vain, that we have pushed these young people into horror and that they are irretrievable, even if they return, these are the irrevocably lost some of us, perhaps the best of us. We think about it, and I will certainly vote for this law and be happy to participate in any further debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10081	Thank you, Mrs. Corovic. The word is a folk letter from Stefan Miladinovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Milovan Drecun. Here you go, Miss Miladinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10082	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, the last few years have seen a phenomenon that a number of Serbian citizens are organised or independently joining paramilitary formations abroad for material or other reasons, and that after participation they return to Serbia and become carriers of propaganda and incentives for others to participate in armed conflicts in other countries. We are witnessing numerous conflicts abroad, in fact in all different countries in different hemispheres, and there are different motives for participation in these conflicts, so we can say that the foreign political moment that determines the adoption of these amendments and the addition of criminal law. Some of the conflicts may be subjected to terrorist activity, but this crime is not just about terrorism. Although they sometimes have similar goals and resources, it is still necessary to separate participation in war operations from terrorist activities. In view of the fact that such an act has not been established as a particular criminal offence of the applicable Criminal Code, and this supplement is prescribed, but also provides for sanctions for the protection of citizens and fundamental social values and the repression of such acts, the proposed additions of the Code of Criminal Code should have an impact on potential perpetrators of those offences, so that they are not being carried out in the future, thus achieving general prevention as the aim of criminal law. In this matter, and there have been words about it, my colleagues have said that our neighbours, Montenegro and BiH, have acted preventively, adopting similar legal solutions, which, with our solution, I believe, will contribute to stability and peace, both in the region and beyond. At the same time, Jovan Cvijic said that "The fates of Balkan peoples are inextricably linked, since the Balkans were and remained a crossroads, not only roads but various political great forces," and this sentence still best illustrates the importance of the Balkans for spreading various ideas. The disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and the severe war conflicts on its premises opened the door to all radical doctrines, especially nationalism and radical Islam. According to data from Germany's Deutsche Teatung, the former SFRY area is one of the main targets for recruitment, when it comes to the war areas of Islamic countries. The conflict in the Middle East, as far as the Balkans are concerned, has been attended by the most people from BiH, in the area of KIM and Albania, and dozens of citizens of Montenegro, Macedonia and Serbia have also been recorded. Most of them, according to some data, also joined the Islamic state of Iraq and Levanta, which today is more than a terrorist organisation according to estimates of the world, as it has an ideological, strategic and tactical dimension. Although the professional public in Serbia has been back for years, it has slowly managed to draw attention to this issue, in fact for the first time in public it echoed the recruitment of our citizens in January of this year, and the cause was the death of a young man from Novi Pazar, 19-year-old Mirza Ganic, who was just mentioned by her colleague Aida. If all the wars of the 1990s, a drastic reduction in the number of the military, a poor economic situation, the presence of radical Islamic groups in the southern and western parts of Serbia, it can be said that Serbia has become a suitable ground for the recruitment of mercenaries, especially because of the fact that in Serbia a significant number of citizens with significant military and military experience, the justification of the measures we want to take should not be questioned. The Republic of Serbia is still not considered a larger recruiting base, although we have increasingly frequent cases of departure and attempts to recruit our citizens and not only in the Middle East, but participation in conflicts in Libya and Ukraine has been recorded. What is important to point out is unfortunately all the participation of women in war conflicts. The reason why organizations use women as weapons is, above all, relying on the element of surprise, because women are less striking and also subject to smaller control measures. The abuse of minors and children for the purpose of war is increasingly common, and therefore it is necessary to discuss potential dangers and drastic consequences for their safety and life daily through the education system. This problem must be seen from all angles, not enough to prescribe sanctions for these crimes, but it is important that we act together preventively to combat this trend which essentially leads to nothing good. We want this law to prevent our citizens from going to war areas, but also recruiting and seducing them and sending them to radical groups, such as Idyl and them alike. The laws must be aligned with the time in which we live, and we will increasingly change and align laws, primarily the Criminal Code, because by developing new technologies and changing social realities, new crimes occur. I would like to remind myself that in 2007, the National Assembly made a decision on military neutrality, which implies that members of the Serbian Army do not participate in combat operations, but exclusively in peacekeeping missions, so there is no need for its citizens to self-initiately participate in any kind of struggle. So, finally, I want to stress that these amendments to the law are fully in the spirit of state policy, in fact, military neutrality policies, and that is why we will support this proposal in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10083	The word has been given by the People's MP, Milovan Dracun, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10084	The proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code is of special importance to us, given the current events and what is ahead of us, although it seems to me that the proposed members of 386 and 386b should indeed be specified, in some respects, and especially in the case of the part where it is said that a Serbian citizen who participates in the war or armed conflict in a foreign country, as a member of the military, and already there have been speeches of which military formations, whether the Foreign Legion can be treated as a criminal act of participation of our citizens, so perhaps there should be a correction of this member and add, if it is military formations, those military formations that do not belong to internationally recognised states or UN members. The following includes – or the paramilitary formations of the parties in conflict. I would add, in addition to the paramilitary formations, terrorist groups, because there is no sign of equality between paramilitary formations and terrorist groups, and this would be specified by Article 386. The special weight is Article 386b because it is in line with the EU Council's Framework Decision on the fight against terrorism and complementarity of the 2008 decision defining criminal acts, which are linked to terrorism, which is certainly the subject of this article. Among other things, it is a public incentive to commit terrorist acts, recruiting and training to commit terrorist acts, recruiting for terrorism, training for terrorism. Furthermore, the 2005 Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which came into force in 2007, aims to strengthen Member States' efforts to prevent terrorism in two ways. The first is to incriminate certain behaviours, encourage public recruitment and training for terrorism, and the second is to strengthen preventive measures at national and international level. I think both of these members are in line with the Council of Europe Convention and these changes need to have a double function. One is preventive, however challenged in some exhibitions. If someone is made aware that after returning from some paramilitary or terrorist formations, participating in other people's conflicts, they will be sanctioned, they may be discouraged to go there. On the other hand, the introduction of sanctions for such acts can contribute to preventing the execution of terrorist and other acts of violence on our territory by returnees from these jihad - battlefields, too, because then there would be an open space for the functioning of competent authorities and services. After all, just to remind you, we will in the coming period, in the long run, face one of our biggest security challenges that is globally character and require an adequate international reaction, especially at regional level. It is radical Islamic extremism and terrorism that rests on the ideology of jihad, the ideology of impatience and which can significantly disrupt international and interfaith relations, especially in the environments such as Serbia. Recently, an Islamic state terrorist organisation has revealed that one of its long-term goals is the creation of Balkan Caliphate. This suggests that this area is destabilised, and in the easiest way to destabilise itself through returnees now in the ranks of the Islamic state, who are militaryly trained, additionally radicalised, indoctrinated, associated with international organisations. The proposed changes, these two members, are creating the necessary legal framework for Serbia to be more actively involved in the international fight against terrorism and against all those involved in other people's wars in the framework of paramilitary or terrorist organisations. The creation of this legislative framework will certainly strengthen our capacity and internally, to prevent these returnees from carrying out some terrorist action. However, it seems to me that in the coming period we should supplement this law with several provisions. First, how to define the question of what is a radical ideology that serves as a basis, for example. to go to jihad battlefields and how to provide for sanctions against those who spread such radical ideology? If individual Wahhabi missionaries operating in the region openly advocate the intolerance between Christianity and Islam, claiming that Christians are natural enemies to Islam, then it certainly is a radical ideology that is unacceptable. I think the beginning of a fight against going to other people's wars should actually be to define what radical ideology is and how to cut off its spread. Furthermore, I think we should change the law in that sense to cut off funding that goes too far across some allegedly non-governmental organisations, which serve to recruit volunteers who go into terrorist formations, into paramilitary formations, which establish channels for their transfer, because without money it is impossible to organise going to other people's wars. If we were to add the Criminal Code to these provisions, I think that we would have a much more favourable legislative framework, that we have an advanced form of fight against what we certainly don't want to have, which is that our citizens are at war in other people's wars, that they come back completely indoctrination and that they are eventually taking violent action on our territory. Finally, I don't think it should make a fundamental difference when it comes to the application of these members who, I expect, will be adopted, among those who are at war, for example. on the part of the Islamic State and those warring on some other paramilitary formations or unrecognized formations, for example in Ukraine, but the weight of their operation will certainly be appreciated in another way. In any case, I think this was necessary, that we were not too late to make these changes, but in order to do so in the next period, I repeat, we would have to cut the basis for spreading radical ideology that calls for impatience, for going to war, for violence, because without that we will not have a strong enough mechanism to oppose such phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10085	Thank you, Mr. Dracun. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10086	Thank you. Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the objective of this addition to the Criminal Code, as MPs of the DS, is certainly justified and supported. In your proposal, we have more suggestions because he is a proposal that is not complete, is not clear and has great shortcomings. The reason for the law is that a certain number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are joined by paramilitary formations outside the Republic of Serbia, organised or independently for material or other reasons, some SNS MPs who spoke about ideals, and after a certain time and after participating in war or armed conflicts return to the Republic of Serbia and become carriers of propaganda and inciting other persons to participate in war or armed conflicts in other countries. So the objective of this change and supplementation is quite justified and we support you here and agree with these objectives. However, if you had ever offered us this for signing, you would have thought about signing for the simple reason that there are enough misunderstandings. We would point out to you in due time, all the ambiguities would be removed, and then we would also be one of the signatories of this bill, i.e. a bill supplementing the law. We didn't seem to care enough about how this crime would look under some special circumstances. So today, on several occasions, we have had examples that prove it, as if it were made for only one and only a specific case, when it comes to Ukraine and we understand it and that's also the thing that needs to be solved in this way, but much more quality than what you've done, of course. Mr. Omerovic, making the rules, is one thing and implementing it is something else entirely. This particular crime will bring about legal and practical problems that you will not be able to solve so easily. The question arises – is it possible in practice to do such a work, for example? Although also prove, given that it is, among other things, a foreign country, an X country and the question is how willing such a country would be to help and to meet, e.g. when it comes to gathering evidence. The problems we see, only some of them are next. From the vague provisions of the law, there is always a space for abuses, and it is as an MP who has been sitting in this assembly for many years, I hope quite clearly. They report to those who read thoroughly, so they're malpractice, so they're not well-intentioned, which, of course, we're not. There are imaginary and hypothetical things and assumptions that can question this whole proposal. I'll just tell you some. Let's say that if the state of Serbia participates in some hypothetical conflict, an imaginary conflict, with an x-country, which, in the event of some offensive to an enemy soldier who is a Serbian citizen, is trampled on the territory of the imaginary country, from the vague provisions of this Code of Criminal Code proposal, there is the possibility that someone might be responsible for such a thing. You will, of course, say that that is not the case, you will say that, among other things, the reason we will never endanger other people's territorial integrity and that we agree, we will never attack anyone else, we will always defend ourselves, but I will remind you just how many times in practice it has not been respected or how much it has been respected, and you with your experience can best know. We argue that this is very unclear for the simple reason that on this case now all the elements of the crime have been fulfilled, that one is a citizen of Serbia, that he participates in the war, that he is a member of the military formation of the party in conflict, is not a citizen of the country of X, is not a member of an official mission of an international organisation whose Serbia is a member. It also writes in the proposal: "A Serbian citizen who participates in war or armed conflict in the country as a member of military or paramilitary formations of the party in conflict, and is not a citizen of that foreign state, as well as a member of an official mission of an international organisation whose Serbia is a member. “ Let me explain things to you, since this is very vague. So if you had offered the Democratic Party, or the MP's club, we would have signed with this amendment: "The Serbian citizen who participates in the war or armed conflict in the country as a member of the military or paramilitary formations of the parties in the conflict, none of which are the Republic of Serbia. “ It’s much clearer. Another misunderstanding is, for example, dual citizenship. Just imagine how much one can avoid being punished, here, let me say, a future criminal code with this supplement, when this particular thing or a particular case is at stake. You know that we allow dual citizenship and you know that someone who goes to war or participates in war conflicts for another country can also seek citizenship of both these other states and the interest of that other state can be given an emergency procedure and issued citizenship. In that case, one who leaves Serbia's borders immediately more, according to this law, is not considered a Serbian citizen if he has dual citizenship. Imagine that someone is involved in war conflicts, participates, God forbid, in some war crimes and is given the citizenship of an X country in the meantime. That's also not what you predicted for this, and that's how someone's gonna avoid a two to ten-year sentence. There is also a misunderstanding, and I would ask Mr Becic to allow me to explain it, without any bad intention, that you do not think that I am underprivileged, that by those who have signed a proposal to supplement this Criminal Law, not only by Mr Omerovic, but by anyone who has signed this proposal, we express no doubt, but concerned about certain concepts and their interpretations. One of them is abroad. Don't be angry. There were examples where we could have bought up to five, ten years ago at the press kiosks of a magazine that regularly went out at some point...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10087	Unfortunately, Mr. Bozovic, time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10088	I got two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10089	You don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10090	Can I finish another sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10091	Here, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10092	Thank you. I also thank my colleagues across the street. What I meant to say was that the notion of abroad was once interpreted in this country twice. There were those who interpreted it widely through a certain magazine, for example, the magazine "The Great Serbia"...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10093	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word is Alexander Jovicic. Let MP Vladimir Djukanovic be prepared. I'm sorry, the priority is the proposing representative, MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10094	I apologize, dear colleague Jovicic. I'll be very brief. I just think he deserves an answer, not just a comment. It seems that the bigger problem here is whether someone is offered something to sign, counterpart Bozovic, do not be angry, to join the text of the proposal to supplement this law that is good and for which you will vote, but the essence itself. I was not at all angry that my colleague, Aleksandra Jerkov, did not offer me to sign the Law amending the Criminal Code, which she offered to the Assembly on September 30th, with regard to the revision of the provisions that relate to the judgment of the Court of Human Rights on the so-called so-called "the Court of Human Rights". missing babies in the Zorica Jovanovic case. I'll support that proposal, too. So, I don't have any problem with not being offered to sign a bill. I don't think this is a competition to see if anyone's gonna stand behind this signature. It is much more important that we adopt this law, and it is much more important, that we prevent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from going further into crisis areas. This is the essence of that law. So this becomes a crime. The famous Foreign Legion has been mentioned several times. I must admit that what we all know is a military formation within the French army, but rare cases are that there is a need to pursue participation in some military formations. So that's going to be rare. So I ask you not to ask, as our people would say, a hair in the egg, because, simply, I will repeat what I said and at the end of the work when the authorized representatives spoke, neither the most perfect nor the most precise legal norm can cover all cases of real life and what will happen to us in the next period. We always have to take a step ahead of the draft regulation to make sense of the dynamics and complexity of what awaits us. So no one's smart enough to predict everything alive. Let our national authorities and court practice, after all, tomorrow, do some work the day after. If there's a need, we'll change and then I don't know how long, maybe even some kind of irregularity has been detected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10095	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr Bozovic is looking for a replica, says you mentioned it in a negative context. I didn't hear. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104) Before I give you my word on the Rules of Procedure, let me just give you one piece of information. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the law from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10096	Thank you. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 104. My colleague Omerovic misread me. What I wanted to say is that the essence of the law is one and we are the essence and purpose of these amendments and the addition of the law we support. So we're not mad that you didn't ask us to sign. No, we were angry that you didn't ask us to tell you how to write this supplement, because we think that ignorance is the basic problem of the institutions of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10097	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the congregation to declare itself? (Balša Bozovic, from town: No. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10098	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, is indeed a great pleasure to hear that the Democratic Break will support this law and I am aware of the fact that every law has certain gaps on which we can work and reach a consensus that it will be better. That is the essence of democracy and this House. The previous speaker as a top lawyer, I will be free enough to invite my colleagues to take his suggestions that he may have and to respect in the next period and to classify them in this law. On the other hand, this is today an important law for our country, above all that Serbia respects in this way the UN Security Council Resolution. If we look at the countries that supported this resolution, it is both the US and Russia, and also countries that are very important about Europe and the EU itself, which are Great Britain and France. We have seen that even in the region, our neighbours are slowly introducing this practice that their citizens, or citizens, do not participate and wage other people's wars, disrupting the image of their countries, as well as losing their citizens for whom it is and the question of whether they will return from such hotspots, leading some wars that may not be in their interest. Also, amendments and additions to the law apply to our citizens. We talked here today first of all about what sanctions they are and what is it that awaits them if they go there. I think this law is as important as preventing any citizen of our country from going to any battlefield in the world, regardless of whether it's Ukraine, Syria or any new one created in the meantime. I think it's a prevention for our fellow citizens, that it's important for the simple reason they bring in when they come back from that war. We can also discuss what they offer our youth in our country and what are the dangers and consequences of such things – the extremist ideology that can spread in our country, which is not good for our society first, for the system of values that we will share in the next period. Also, the experience they bring on terrorist actions, that is, terrorist attacks that can easily come after here and focus on other territory in the region or beyond. I think it's far more important than what's just sanctions - links to international terrorist organisations, because after these spaces, someone can maintain certain ties with terrorist organisations around the world, which is certainly not good for our country and our society. I think this will be a major challenge for our security services, primarily in making analysis and in locating these people who go to foreign areas, or other countries to wage some wars, and I think that we as a country have fought a lot of wars in the past 25 years and that we no longer need wars in our country or in the environment or in some other parts of the world. I believe that this is one big step that we have followed the example of developed, organised, democratic countries, countries which, above all, respect human rights and advocate the same and I am glad that this will preventably reduce the participation of our fellow citizens, whether they are younger or older and I think it will be a big step. Thank you for supporting this law, not only the Serbian Progressive Party, but also all other parties. I repeat again, we will take into consideration and suggestions from top-notch lawyers from the Democratic Party in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10099	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10100	Thank you, Your Honor. Today is also a great day for Serbia, for a simple reason, because today it is indeed in a beautiful and solemn way that the European Commission's report is presented, with which we can really be proud and boast that we are the state that is progressing and that is well reformed. Some here don't want to see it, but it's good to have these on the side, and I'm talking first and foremost about European officials, that and how they see it. And this law, among other things, is the fruit of certain reforms that we want to implement, first of all because we want to have a society that no longer wants to take care of wars, conflicts, but we want to develop economically and we want prosperity to this country and that our young people never, ever really, go beyond the borders of this country to fight, but if they're already going somewhere, go to show their knowledge or bring us some new knowledge here. That's what we'll be proud of. Our greatest success, regardless of our 100th year of World War I today, which we're proud of, of course, and how we won a great victory back then, but we don't want to be proud of battles anymore, and I don't know what, but we want to be proud of economic progress. I think that's where this law goes. That story about young people, someone here said our young are lost. I agree, but while someone was in power, these young people, especially when they were protesting, without any criteria he called extremists. Then when a young man, who's gone a little astray in certain ideologies, you call an extremist, he's still falling into it and getting worse. As you have seen, our power, in fact, of the Serbian Progressive Party, will never baptize any of these people with that name with an extremist, regardless of if anyone strays, we will try to bring him back, and among other things, to return him to some normal social flows. Extreme ideologies didn't do anyone any good. It is also an appeal to any future ruling set, never to treat young people in such a way. This story about going to war abroad, I have to admit, I agree, there's this problem, it's a big problem for this country too, but sometimes it seems to be pre-named, and sometimes it's also for the pressure on this country. About a month ago, a newspaper published a picture of a man on the front page, where they asked – if you know him, it's a dog of war, who is fighting from these areas somewhere in Ukraine. Then it turned out that this man was not from Serbia, but from Slovakia and had nothing to do with Serbia, but someone wanted to run such a campaign, to show that people who go around Ukraine and war are recruited from here, which is a terrible pressure on this country, because someone will think that we are recruiting people and sending them to Ukraine, which is not good. I didn't notice that the daily list apologized to the state and to anyone, and such a negative message went away and it was very ugly. When we talk about people who are at war, especially in Ukraine, believe me, many Western European countries have a problem with the dogs of war. As far as I can tell, on the Ukrainian side, you can hardly see, he even gave an interview, a Swedish citizen who boasts that he is a Nazi and worships Nazi ideology, and that he is very fond of what we say in Ukraine, Bander, and is very commendable about Hitler. I'm sorry, but I didn't hear anyone condemn it. Not to mention how much you have from Poland, Slovakia, France, how much you want other citizens who are fighting there on the Ukrainian side, and here we're only talking about how someone recruits and wars in Ukraine from Serbia. I agree, this law must forbid it. I will always invite our youth to take care of Serbia above all, not some other countries. Mr. Omerovic, since you are in some way a proponent, and all of us, I have signed this law, among other things, because its essence is that people are forbidden to go to war on other people's battlefields, but there are certain inaccuracies, you have admitted it yourself and it can create great problems in practice. For example, it is said -- a Serbian citizen who participates in a war or armed conflict in a foreign country as a member of military or paramilitary forms of the party in conflict, and is not a citizen of that foreign state, will be sanctioned. Does that mean that if he's a citizen of that foreign state, then he can fight? I think that sentence was too high and that somehow it had to be precise, because someone was going to derail the law of mockery. For example, God forbid, the conflict in BiH again, of course, I hope it never happens, God never gives up civil war in BiH again, but God forbid it comes to this, someone will get BiH citizenship out of here and say, "I'm sorry, but I have their citizenship now, too. I think that's where it was supposed to be, because it seems a little illogical, and hopefully you'll appreciate it. What I have to resent is a range of sanctions. When you tell someone they're going to be punished for a crime like this in the range of one to eight years, how are you going to graduate, graduate, and on what basis is someone going to get eight, and on what grounds is someone going to get one year? I think it's a crime if you're involved in a war in a foreign country, I have to admit, equally difficult, now possibly, if you committed a war crime there, but for what you're about to commit a war crime, you have to get a much bigger sentence. In that segment, maybe you should consider improving this. Otherwise, I believe that when changes and additions to the Criminal Code are made, this will be taken into account and this will be fixed. But because of the very essence and why this is being brought, that many young lives in some way would be protected and that this country would not have foreign policy problems because of the various pressures, this is something that I will absolutely support and I believe that the entire SNS parliamentary group, as it has signed, will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10101	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Radoslav Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10102	Thank you. Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about one of the most impressive topics of our time, we are talking about war and peace, destruction, mass crimes, victims and criminals. The law that is before us is our attempt to contribute to peace, to prevent the spread of violence in the world and above all, to preserve both the people's lives and the lives of our people. We believed that after the terrible sufferings the world went through during the 20th century, coming out of hell two world bloodsheds and a series of smaller and larger regional wars, they would learn the senselessness of using violence to solve political, religious and other conflicts. Unfortunately, it seems that only the tools have changed. They became more destructive and, as war experts like to express themselves, more sophisticated. Thanks to the media, we are attending a live destruction. In every corner of the planet, we witness mass dying, wounding, hunger, misery, refugee. It looks like the imagination of inflicting pain is increasing exponentially. To those who look different, who think differently, who believe in another God are caused by pain and great suffering. Talking about this subject, and not having an association on life and the importance of life, is pointless. It seems that, despite the great oath of the modern world, with the significance of human life and the brightness of declarations and adopted conventions on human rights and freedoms, life is worth less and less. Unfree people usually blinded by various religious and political ideologies, in anger and desire to achieve their goal, as if they had killed within themselves that basic drive for self-preservation, destroying themselves and the innocent around them. Terror and terrorism are becoming the phenomenon we're slowly getting used to. The less we react, the less we act. We're sick in the yard, and we don't seem to see or hear it, because it happens somewhere out there and some other people. It's just a cruelly decapitated human head in front of the cameras that send a terrible image of us and realize that something terrible and inhuman is happening, something that springs from the darkest space of the human mind. For the tragedy to be greater, there is no state, no state of terror and the blackest fundamentalism in our eyes. As a magnet, it attracts volunteers, people of the right mind and spirit from all over the world. Other people's lives, other people's human rights and freedoms for them are just a means of shutting down and undoing the fear of anyone who still holds on to universal rights and value systems. The danger is greater than we think. Evil is more evil than we can imagine. The comparisons, if the world had responded to Czechoslovakia and Austria in the right way, probably the Second World War would not have happened, nor the Holocaust, nor what we read today with anger from historical readers. And so today, who doesn't see the evil spreading like an epidemic, is an accomplice to something that will happen to us as much as tomorrow. The unity of the world is more necessary than ever. The awareness of danger must be universal. They're still fresh wounds to all of us on what we've been living in these areas in the past decade. This law, which we are considering today, is our concrete work, concrete steps to act preventively and contribute to the achievement of higher goals. First, to preserve human lives and our people who, in the name of higher goals, would destroy other people's lives, and of course those who would be their potential victims, to build and preserve a system of universal values in which human life is respected above all, to clearly show as a society that we have zero tolerance for people who abuse religion, politics, ideology to achieve their own goals, and to clearly show to the world, other peoples and countries that we are part of that humanity that is not at peace with evil, which is able to unite and act effectively and prevent the destruction of human lives, human freedoms and human rights. This is a contribution to a better and fairer world that our Parliament and of course our Government make. It's a good thing today in this high house there's been an agreement between all of us, no matter what political option they belong to. It's just a step in a series of steps that we as a society have to take. Family, school, university, scientific community, artists, journalists, media, let those I didn't remember forgive, we are all called and invited to react and to create a system of values for the start of the third millennium. A system of values in which evil will be clearly marked and called, in which human life, human rights and freedoms will be celebrated as the most significant fluid of our civilization. Where it does not bear fruit, everything we do, as a community, of course, the last line of defense is state, law and repression. We can tell from experience that the greatest victims of all kinds of ideologies are young people. Youth is sacrificed in the name of the so-called. higher goals. It's in the nature of youth that she's rebellious, that she's resisting. I believe that those who, on behalf of these higher goals, poison young people with hatred and intolerance towards diversity, recruit them into the ranks of their fighters, in fact the greatest evil, and I personally advocate that threatened penalties for ideologists, organizers and those recruiting and sending young people into wars, terrorism and executions be dragons and multiple deaths compared to their ideological victims. No faith promotes violence as a means of spiritual ascension. Many great minds throughout the history of mankind spoke of the sublimeness of human life. From Socrates who, as our most important goal in life, marked the rise of our soul, the rise of our moral and spiritual values as a criterion for the conquest of freedom, through Mahatma Gandhi, who, as the only way to live, marked that we let others live, to Albert Einstein, who absorbed morality in our work as conditions of beauty and dignity in our lives. Neither the Koran nor the Holy Scriptures call for killing and sacrificing other people's lives. Recently, Ambassador Palestine to Serbia, his Excellency Muhammad Naftan, said of the presentation of the journal "Politicalology of Religion" – terrorism is older than religion, but almost all types of religion have adopted terrorism as a political method of achieving certain goals. A religious leader said: faith should build a man, not send him to war against another man. Of course, as a MP and my representative group of SNS, I will support this law. Once again, I look forward to being supported by almost all the other MPs in this high house. This law opposes the participation of our fellow citizens in an illegal manner in any war, and above all in terrorist actions in the world. In addition, terrorism is already covered by international criminal law provisions. Kofi Annan, UN Secretary-General, said during the UN General Assembly meeting on 4 October 2002 -- terrorism by its nature is an attack on fundamental principles of rights, order, human rights and a peaceful resolution of the conflict of all principles on the basis of which the UN system is based. To end, by addressing this high home, and for the sake of easy recognition, I would say one of the most frequently used definitions of the greatest evil of today – terrorism is designed to use illegal violence or threaten illegal violence to instill fear with the intention of forcing or threatening power or society, in order to achieve goals that are generally political, religious or ideological. Let us be honest in the end – how long, as parents, teachers, teachers, doctors, professors, have we devoted ourselves to talking to our children about the value of human life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10103	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, first of all, I want to talk about something we talked about earlier, which is how we propose this law. There are some things in every country that should be the subject of consensus, that is, things that the ruling majority can agree on, no matter who does it at that time, and opposition. I am terribly sorry, and I also heard an explanation from my colleague Mecca Omerovic that we were not offered to sign this bill. I believe that there has been enough time, regardless of the changes that have been made, as we have heard, at the last moment, because I think it would be a quality for this country, for this Assembly and for the quality of your government, or the ruling majority, and if the opposition says that something you do, whether through government or through parliament, is really something good for this country. For that reason, I don't think it's disputed, but that's what our head of Parliament said during the day, that we're going to vote and we're going to support this law and we think it should be adopted. What hasn't been said much today, which I think we should point out, is also the international importance of adopting this law. We're all aware that a few days ago or two days ago, Prime Minister Vukic spoke with Beyden. In other words, the United States thanked us for participating in, in some way, a coalition, or group of countries that support the fight against extremists in Syria, that is, Iraq and all those countries where the Islamic State currently operates. Of course, this law will not only be passed in Serbia, obviously in the entire region, i.e. in all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, because there is an identical problem. In that sense, both from the international point of view and from the inside point of view, it's good to have a law like this. Of course, it's nice to pass the law, this Assembly has done so many times before and during previous certain governments and during the last two or three governments of the current ruling majority, but has always put the problem of applying, or can this law really live in practice? What are we fighting here? We don't fight here against classic crime that if you have a threatened prison sentence for robbery or theft, for three years, so you raise to ten, so someone fat will consider whether they'll go into theft by 5,000 dinars and face a great prison sentence. It is difficult for the laws of any kind, especially the amendments and additions of the Criminal Law to fight something that religion or false interpretation of religion, that is, against ideology. Young people who leave this country, whether they go to Ukraine, whether they go to Syria, absolutely it doesn't matter, are motivated, attracted to various promises, but above all by ideology. I don't think these people, especially in the very young world, are motivated by money. Money is something else, money is a motive code, what we used to say here today, which I agree with, with the term "dogs of war", it's people professional, murderers who see in this way can make big money. It's going to happen and it's something that can be sanctioned and there's an adequate threatened legal penalty. Someone needs to measure whether it's more appropriate for him to make three, four thousand dollars a month without that money being returned or he can't go back to Serbia one day. What is the essence of the problem are these young people who go from ideology to wars, no matter what religion or religion they want to fight for. This law can't stop it. They, if they're willing to die for what they believe, will be prepared to face jail time. I guess the lesser threat is prison punishment than the death of someone or the willingness to sacrifice their lives because of certain, unfortunately, very wrong ideals. What you don't get wrong, I claim this law is necessary, it should exist, but it won't be enough, it won't prevent all these problems that we have today in certain parts of Serbia. What's far more important than the adoption of this law is the government's position and willingness of the government, if you want the National Assembly, because that's not the problem of this or some future government, is to deal with the essence of the problem. You've got to get these young people on the right track. You have to invest financial assets in these areas. To allow them to work, to have a family, and to have something to lose. It means they get something so they can lose something so they don't make the wrong decision - I'm young, I have nothing to lose, I'm going to war. To allow them to school, to be so schooled as to realize that the greater value of human life than some pointless war in some distant country that happens orchestratedly or unorcedally, for some of the great interests in which you are just a little puppet whose only role is to carry a gun, fire a few bullets, and no one will care when you lose your life. If we combine these two approaches, so this law together with, really access to youth, then this can all make sense. In that sense, I ask the Government to pay particular attention to the next steps that will come after the adoption of this law. On the other hand, we also have our internal problems that are also not just about applying these amendments and supplementing the Criminal Code that we are going to bring, which is for just functioning the judiciary. If you want these amendments to the law to be a serious threat to someone, he must be afraid he'll really face the penalty. If there is danger or reality today, and we heard it today and in the European Commission's report, we also heard from the prime minister that there are very few judgments in the courts, a large number of proceedings conducted by prosecutors, but a small number of judgments, they know very well and listen to all those potential young people who would go to wartimes around the world. If they are aware or believe or believe that this prison sentence will not be carried out through court for years, it greatly reduces the very danger and threat of this law. In this context, it should be considered that such procedures should be priority, urgent and that the judicial authorities should be consulted to process such cases as soon as possible. Of course, one question is the efficiency of the judiciary, another question is the availability of our judiciary, because one of the fellow MPs said nicely – who is not in Serbia today, he is somewhere in a strange country, where war facts exist, it is not a democratic country where the same thing works, so, according to our request for extradition, those persons will be arrested and delivered. It is often a question of which groups are in power and that is one of the problems we will face, i.e. the judicial system, the services, the police, the prosecution and, of course, at the end of the court. Of course I'm saying that there are certain advantages, and that's international co-operation, Interpol's arrest warrant, so that person when he leaves the zone, if he decides to leave the war zone and be available to another country with which we have the possibility of legal cooperation, then this law makes sense. So, yes, we should vote this law, that it will bring a lot of good, but I'm afraid in a year, two or three, if we talk about the results of law enforcement, we won't face the sad fact that we don't have any procedures that are under way, or that this law, in terms of the threat, has prevented us from leaving. Again, I concentrate on young people who go to war and lose their lives. On the other hand, I think it's going to give more results when it comes to classic mercenaries and that's something that needs to be really harshly sanctioned. Of course, the question arises and these legal misunderstandings. That's what everyone talked about today. If we don't understand something now, imagine when it comes to the broader interpretation of the police, the prosecution and the court. Someone mentioned well today, how are we going to implement or sanction, or not sanction people or persons who are citizens of this country, and let's say they go to the Foreign Legion, which we know is part of the French army, and French is one orderly state. These are all the questions we have to ask either the amendments to the laws or certain sublaws to answer so that the law can actually work. I wouldn't have to, once again, support the text of the law, but I ask you to think carefully about other steps if the intention of the law is right and all of us here to prevent young people from going into pointless wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10105	The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Let the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to highlight my special satisfaction and joy, because I am one of the 199 MPs who signed the proposal to pass this law. Also, a consensus has been reached in some way in this Assembly, because MP groups who are not signatories of this proposal have also said that they will issue their vote with certain amendments for this law, which confirms the high awareness of all of us that there is one need to make changes to the Criminal Code by including two other members, where the sanctioning of certain behaviours condemned by the entire world will be envisaged. Today, there have been very well-intentioned discussions, very well-founded and I would say, legal locks, obviously, that this proposal and these two members themselves have shortcomings, but there is no law in this world that is ideal and in which there are no shortcomings, holes, shortages. I hope that in the day that we are discussing the amendments we will complete, supplement, and what pleases me most as a man who deals with this profession, who is a graduate lawyer, I expect that a comprehensive Criminal Code is passed in this Assembly, where we will sublime all the members we have managed to spread through several subjects, through several places, and that at one point we have a comprehensive Criminal Code in which we will write and be marked with all the crimes. There were also discussions that were not well-intentioned, and I would like to point out for the citizens of Serbia that this law is not passed because of Muslims, it is not adopted because of Albanians, it is brought about by Serbian citizens and applies to all citizens of Serbia, there is no favouring either negatively or positively. We want by passing this law to send clear messages to the world that we are part of a community that wants to be dealt with by people who, for the sake of money, go to foreign states, bring accidents to the citizens there, then as such, someone called them dogs of war, of course, that may be an ugly expression, they return to their midst, spreading hatred, spreading fundamentalism, spreading the desire to wage conflict wars. I think that Serbia is quite enough of all conflicts, all wars, and perhaps the idea is to bring one resolution that will prohibit Serbian citizens from war at any time, if nothing less, at least one next century. We lost three and a half million people in the last century from 1912 to 1945. They were Serbs. Had it not been for luck that there were no conflicts in which we participated, the likely number of current Serbs would have been 42 million, not this figure that exists now. Even the conflicts of the '90s didn't pass us by. We're simply masters to participate in something that's destruction, we're masters. Of course we were lucky to have fought on the side of the forces that were winners, on the side of justice, the truth. Most of the time, we have waged defensive wars, but now a modern age imposes that many of our young people led by ideology, many of our people who have been offered money, are offered to go and fight, create a bad picture of Serbia. We send them a message that before we pass this law, I expect it to be Friday, and that it will come into effect within eight days of the day of publication, they will return, they will come back to their homeland, they will return to their family's regular work. This is a message to them that it simply doesn't pay off, that this law will have harsh sanctions, that this discussion that we are having today, and that we are going to lead on Friday, a kind of prevention and sending an excellent message to all of them, their families, to invite their members, who, of course, know that they are where they shouldn't be, to return, because if they return this law won't apply to them. Someone mentioned here that if this law were retroactively applicable or the amendments to this law would apply to a large part of the MPs present in this assembly. The main thing about law school is that as far as the crime is concerned, it can't be and can be retroactive, it can only be true from the day it is brought forward. All this shows is the malignancy of certain people who want to undermine SNS activities, that some members of the party who have truly fought heroically and defended their homeland are presented with a sign of equality that they are also dogs of war, that those people who have caused some kind of conflict. What more sacred than defending your country to defend your home? That's what we did, we're not ashamed of it, but of course we're not buried in the past. We want to move forward, we want to move this Serbia in both economic and economic terms. In order to do so, we need to create a legal environment that is certain, to create one political stability in Serbia, and once again I will say that I am grateful to all parliamentary groups that will give their vote for this law because it will be a small step for them, but a big step for Serbia and of course for all of us in front of the international public. As far as special prevention is concerned, which is specific punishments for this crime, one is basic and two are qualified, whether it is a group and another member is concerned that you are offering, paying, organising and providing for a wide range of fines – six months to five years for a basic act, from year to eight for a qualified act of the same if it is a group of two to 10 years. I think that these penalties are appropriate to the acts that are threatened by this law and I can call on the judicial authorities, since someone has asked the question today -- who will apply this law, who will act under this law, to do the police in the field first with competent prosecutors, and the decision will be taken by the judicial authorities, or by the courts who are acting, mostly by the basic courts in Serbia. The only problem will be and the evidence is difficult because the execution of the crime is, that is, foreseen by this law, on the territory of another country. It will be difficult to gather evidence that can be relevant, but given that we have experienced lawyers, that we have prosecutors who know their jobs, that we have security services that are able to make a global village out of the world now, where everything can be learned and found out very quickly, that they will collect evidence and that these people who do not realize that by general prevention, by sending a message to all of them, they are still doing this crime for the sake of themselves known reason, expecting drastic penalties from the Serbian judiciary. Because of all this, I am convinced that all of us, and I know that the SNS, that is, its MP group in the voting day, will give their vote and I expect this law to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10107	The word has Professor Janko Veselinović, and let the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10108	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today there is a law on the additions of the Code of Criminals which establishes two new crimes and one crime is participation in war or armed conflicts in a foreign country and another is the organisation and participation in war or armed conflict in a foreign country. I'm one of the 51 MPs who didn't get a chance to sign the bill. The privilege was taken by representatives of the parties in power. I think it's not good because it's a law that should be out of the political arena when it comes to inter-party conflict and relationship. I'll say a few words about some contradictions to this law. In a political sense, there is no doubt that the fight against terrorism is the country's priority. I'd say that's one of the world's top priorities, including the UN. That's not controversial. It is a controversial way of conjecturing these two crimes into the Criminal Code. They are well-consistent compared to the existing Criminal Code, and I would say they haven't properly arranged this area. So, two members for two crimes. Now, all the MPs who spoke today about amending and supplementing this law spoke of the fight against terrorism. In this proposal, the law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code does not have a "t" of terrorism. So there's no mention of terrorism. When an authorised proposing representative, Mr Meho Omerovic said and mentioned the basis for the adoption of this law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, he said one of the basics is the UN resolution on the matter. Right, that 2178 resolution concerns the fight against terrorism, which encourages signatories countries, or UN members, to make it impossible for their citizens to cross their countries' borders to participate in terrorist actions. And what are we talking about here? We're talking about participation in a war or in armed conflicts in a foreign country. There's a basic problem. So we have widely defined one crime and created a danger of a problem in the application of this part of the Criminal Code. Why? So exactly what we were talking about today, both MPs of the post and MPs of the opposition said it was not clear who would be incriminated by this criminal act and to whom these sanctions would apply. It is clear that there will be not only people involved in terrorism or in agitating or mobilising people to go to war to deal with terrorist actions. This law will also incriminate people who are engaged in some licensed companies through these companies or people who have dual citizenship and are in the armed forces, legal armed forces of some other countries. Maybe we could say, well, it doesn't matter if it's a law on banning the production of brandy. However, it is not about the law prohibiting the production of brandy, it is about amending the Criminal Code. There are high-level lawyers here, law professors who deal with this issue, and I think that we had to make sure that people who are not professional enough and competent enough to write an amendment to the Penal Code, put it here as a political declaration, and it becomes an integral part of the legal system. In that sense, I think we should go over...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10109	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10110	Let me finish. ... the competent committees and, through the adoption of certain amendments, to correct certain elements of this in the good intention of the proposed Code of Criminal Law, so that it can indeed be a good part of the fight against terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10111	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, as the last registered speaker. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10112	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, for the SNS MPial Group, the draft law supplementing the Criminal Code is good and needs a bill for a number of reasons. In a purely legal way, these two members who are supplementing the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia are in a nomotechnically written quality and there is nothing vague, there is nothing controversial, there is nothing that could cause any confusion in practice. The MPs of the former regime have more objected to the fact that they are not among the signatories of the bill, and after that they have tried some tense structures and tense hypotheses to question the criminal and legal basis of this code, or this law, in which, in my humble opinion, they have absolutely failed. Here is another question, which has been delegated by the MPs of the former regime, which is the question of evidence, that is, how will it be proved that someone has committed one of these two crimes supplementing the Criminal Code? I must remind all MPs, including those MPs who have criticised this bill, that we are on the ground of material criminal law. So we're in the field of what's called criminal law - a special part. So we prescribe these draft laws two new crimes in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. The question of evidence is not a matter of criminal code. The question of evidence is the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, all those who have referred criticism to this bill from the point of view of the force of evidence that will eventually be used to determine that someone has either participated in a war on the territory of a foreign country or has encouraged others to do so, it seems to me that they have completely missed the topic, simply because it is not the matter of this law, nor can this law be dealt with. It is all very precise and very clearly defined by the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. As for the ideological, or religious aspects of war on the territory of foreign states, this is an extensive topic and could be said a lot. I agree with those colleagues who said this wasn't a bill directed against any religion. Of course, this is not even a bill directed against Islam. This is not a bill that concerns only Syria or Iraq. I also agree with a colleague from the DS who said that Islam is not a militant religion and that Islam is not a religion that encourages violence, and especially not a religion that encourages people to commit the kind of monstrous murder that we could see, unfortunately, these days that they've been happening in Syria. But this is where you ask each other a different question. The question arises – how do individuals or groups interpret individual religions. No great world religion, nor Islam, nor Christianity, nor Judaism preach the cutting of ears, slaughtering, pulling out eyes, rape, all that we could see or what we could hear about, and what is happening these days, for example. in certain parts of Syria or Iraq. The problem is something else. Those who do these monstrous atrocities, they interpret their religion in a way that allows them to do such things. So we're on the ground now interpreting religion. I think that if you were to conduct a survey with these villains from the Islamic state of Iraq and Levanta, the terrorist organization, and you were to ask them if what they're doing is in line with the postulates of Islam, I think they would say 100% -- yes, that's something Islam approves, that's what the prophet Muhammad taught us. As if you were to conduct a survey among those who, in the name of Christ or in the name of Christianity, also did similar works, they would say - yes, Christianity approves of such things. So the question is, how do individuals or groups interpret certain religions? It's also not something that the Criminal Code can deal with. Individuals in the former regime have criticised this law because it allegedly cannot achieve its goal adequately, because it is actually fighting against something that should not be fought against. So, this law doesn't fight any religion or members of any religion, but by this law you can't prevent, neither is it the intention of this law, nor is it the intention of any law to prevent a radical interpretation of a religion or some ideology. In that sense, those who have criticised this bill, from the point of view of religion or ideology, are wrong, because it is simply not matter or criminal code, nor is it a matter of any law that exists in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia or anywhere in the world. You can bring in not one, you can have a hundred criminal codes, it won't prevent individuals or groups from interpreting their religion as they belong in a way that it approves them of committing the most disgusting crimes possible. In that sense, those who have criticised this bill are also wrong. Here were the words that this bill is bad because the question is being asked – and what about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are also citizens of another country? That SNS problem doesn't exist. So, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who is a citizen and some foreign state, which makes one of these crimes, is, of course, under the influence of this bill. So, the fact that he's a Serbian citizen and, say, citizens of France, and he's at war in Syria. The fact that he is a citizen of France of course does not release him from responsibility if he commits one of these two, or perhaps both crimes. In this respect, the question of dual citizenship is absolutely not tantamount to the meaning or essence of this bill. What is particularly important to say from the point of view of the SNS, which has the highest responsibility for the conduct of this country's policy, is that this bill is adopted at the time when the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, is in an extremely delicate situation, when it comes to international policy. You must admit that rarely in recent Serbian history, the Serbian government has found itself in such a situation as the government led by Mr Aleksandar Vukic. This government has chosen not the best, but I would say the only possible direction, the only possible way to lead foreign policy. For the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all those who want to be friends of our country, all those who want to maintain good political and economic relations with us, we treat them as friendly states. This government has taken the view that it does not want to interfere with domestic issues of any foreign country, or Syria, or Iraq, or Ukraine. What is very important to stress, the government of the Republic of Serbia as a model, I would say, to governments like we had, for example. In the 19th century, governments led by statesmen, such as Jovan Ristic or Nikola Pasic, therefore, this is the government that leads Serbia's foreign policy in the most essential sense. So we don't even run foreign policy that dictates Washington, Brussels, Berlin or Moscow. We run Serbian politics, which means we want to protect the state and national interests of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people. How does the Government of the Republic of Serbia do that? On the one hand, the government has shown in a very decadent and clear way that it is defined that Serbia is becoming an EU member, that Serbia is on the right track, the European Commission's most positive report so far, since Serbia has embarked on the EU accession process. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is primarily the merit of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, has made one very brave decision not to impose sanctions on the Russian Federation, not to interrupt political and economic ties with one country with which we traditionally have good and friendly relations with which history and tradition, language, religion and culture, and the fact that Russia is a defender of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the Security Council of the Union, but also in all other international forums. In this sense, the SNS, or SNS parliamentary group, also sees the bill as an integral part of the international policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs who signed this bill and who will vote for this bill send a very clear political message to all countries in the world, which is that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are no place in the armed conflicts being fought on the territory of any foreign country. And that the Republic of Serbia is committed to all political problems, that the problems that have grown from political to armed problems are resolved by peaceful means in accordance with the principles of international law, in accordance with the UN Charter, in accordance with all relevant international legal documents, and ultimately in line with all resolutions and documents adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, the SNS parliamentary group will support this bill because it is legally good, because it protects our citizens, prevents our citizens from going to war for any foreign interests in any foreign country. What is also very important, the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill because we are in this way preserving the good international position of the Republic of Serbia and in this way supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy, which means that stable international relations are being maintained with the countries of the West, and with countries in the east, which you will recognise a very delicate policy and policy that has not yet gone hand in hand with any government of Serbia. What I missed to say at the beginning, and it's not bad to know, just because of history. It is not the Republic of Serbia and it is not for the first time that some of its members are at war in a foreign country for foreign interests for religious or ideological reasons. You had a situation in the period from 1936 to 1939 that about 1,700 citizens of the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia who pleaded either as members or as sympathisers of the KPJ, were at war in Spain on the part of the Republican forces against the formations led by General Franco. Neither the then state nor the then government kindly viewed such matters. No government in the world sees favorably the fact that its citizens are at war in a foreign country for interests that are absolutely not of the interest of the government. You have had another situation that is not exactly identical to this situation that I spoke about, or this situation that is now happening in Syria, Iraq or Ukraine, which concerns the fact that individual citizens of the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia have gone abroad and have acted against their own country, or abroad, for the interest of a foreign country. What's this about? When King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, then the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, led by Bogoljub Jeftic, tragically suffered in Mars, sought in the Society of Peoples, which in some way preceded the creation of the UN organisation, asked Hungary to ban the operation of terrorist centres run by Ante Pavelic, in a town located on the border with Yugoslavia. It's a terrorist base called Janka Pusta. It was a wasteland, a salad used by the Ustashas, located near the city of Nadj Kanjiz. The then government had the courage to ask Hungary to ban the work of these terrorist centres that were directly directed against the interests of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia from doing so. If the Kingdom of Yugoslavia has succeeded in this, the SNS is convinced that the government led by Alexander Vukic will be able to prevent similar phenomena that are happening today, which is that our citizens, regardless of their nationality, belong to religion, regardless of which part of the Republic of Serbia they live from or in which part of the Republic of Serbia, are going to war in any country, because it is on the one hand, contrary to their own interests, because they can lose their lives without any need, and on the other hand, it is directly contrary to the interests of the state of Serbia and its citizens and therefore the SNS parliamentary group of pure hearts, with a calm conscience that we are working in the interest of our country, to support this bill on the addition of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10113	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. The word is from the People's Messenger Bojan Kostresh.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10114	I'll just take a few sentences, just so you don't stay off the LSV position. In fact, in the voting day, we will support this draft law supplementing the Criminal Code, because we think it is more important that Serbia shows that it is on that side of civilization and on that side of all countries in the world who clearly and unequivocally condemn the participation of its citizens in war facts, regardless of whether these facts are happening in Syria, Iraq, Ukraine or elsewhere, I think it is totally unacceptable for our citizens to participate in this, and that it is unacceptable that in this way not only do they do one kind of criminal work in the wars where they participate, but also pour out instability and bring back into Serbia when many bad ideologies, bring weapons and experiences, or they could come whole networks that could threaten the security of the state. I think that's inadmissible. That is why we are ready to vote in favour of this law, even though we are an opposition parliamentary group. However good this proposal is, especially when it comes to young people, our country will have to spend additional energy and additional effort to help some people, whether because of the economic situation, whether because of the lack of understanding, what they are getting into or because of the fact that various organisations or different individuals are being seduced. We need to explain to young people that it is not the most sacred duty to fight for neither faith nor nation nor against either side. I think that the educational part that we should do and which state, I think, has to pay attention to is something that this home and the Government of the Republic of Serbia must deal with in the future, because it's just good to send a clear and unequivocal message that everyone who goes to wartime will be punished and the penalties are not small at all, but on the other hand, some of my predecessors have said, if someone is willing to die for certain goals, then they will certainly be prepared and that the prison for that and those people we have to work with, especially those young people, we have to explain that this is not the job they need to deal with. Also, I think this will be one challenge for our security services to determine exactly what people are and what ways and ways they went to those battlefields, to determine when they are and how they return, whether they are part of the organization or not. It is part of the system and our security services participate and cooperate with other services and then are simple lists of information that are exchanged and information that can be available. I want to say one more thing. I think this law is more than good, especially for our area. Imagine that this law existed in the 1990s, so that if all those who participated in wars where Serbia did not participate, had this threat of punishment, we would be in a situation where much fewer people participated in wars, that there were much fewer deaths, much less destruction, much less damage. Unfortunately, that law did not exist then and everything that happened happened, but we do not need to look into the past, but I think we should look into the future, and the future is for Serbia to be an integral part of the civilized world, that together with all the allies, with the EU, with other countries, we should prevent possible conflicts, to contribute to the absence of these conflicts, to prevent our citizens from participating, those who choose to do so, to punish them. And again, I think that here young people are the most endangered as a group they normally attack on, I don't want to enter, any extremist group that recruits both for Ukraine and for Syria, Iraq, and we need to work with these people and we need to explain to these young people that it's not worth participating in such actions and that these are not things to be supported for. So, the Social Democrats League parliamentary group of Vojvodina will vote in favour of this proposal for law supplementing the Criminal Code, and we think this is one of the laws that contributes to Serbia and its international reputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10115	Thank you, Mr. Kostresh. The floor has a representative of the promoter, MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Once again, indeed, I give my sincerest thanks to all my fellow Members and colleagues who participated in the debate today in the principle of a proposal to supplement the Criminal Law, which was submitted by 199 MPs of the National Assembly, and after a full-day debate, we heard those who support all MP groups except one. I would say enough about the seriousness and responsibility of all the MPs, but also about the importance of the topic we discussed today, the evil and the monster surrounding us, not only when it comes to Serbia and the Western Balkans, but I would say the whole world. So my gratitude goes to everyone, of course, on the day that we discuss details, because four amendments to the proposed text of the law have been submitted, we will eventually try to correct some of the inconsistencies and inaccuracies that were discussed during today's principle debate, and I would refer very briefly and ultimately. Namely, there have been speeches about the range of these intended penalties that these amendments and additions of the Criminal Code offer, or predict, but I must inform and remind everyone that the entire Criminal Code is within the range of these two to eight-years-olds, and the court will be the only one who is responsible for measuring the prison sentence depending on the whole series, I would say, the circumstances under which the crime has been committed. On the other hand, I have heard from some of my esteemed colleagues and remarks that this first crime may be taxing and counting that some terrorist organizations that are on the so-called blacklist, or those which have been declared by the United Nations by terrorist organisations, and all other paramilitary formations are not actually on the list of terrorist organizations of the United Nations, such as this Islamic famous state, are actually going to apply this law. It also applies to everyone else, which is why it is not necessary to mention terrorist organizations in these provisions that we are supplementing and changing. We have an example from yesterday's indictment filed by our prosecution of organised crime and terrorism for five citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are suspected of crimes. One more thing was that during the debate in principle, it left some doubt perhaps, but to remind myself, the truth works, more because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there were words about what would happen if one of our citizens had another citizenship of another country, and then maybe there was a conflict in that country, so he went to that country, or was he a citizen of Serbia and another country, and went to a third country? Those who know our criminal legislation know that citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who, in addition to Serbian citizenship, have another state's citizenship, are treated as having only the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, these things are very clear. In the end, really the biggest dilemma and the problem that exists in these provisions that are offered to amend and supplement the Criminal Code is the problem of proving this part. Col. Martinovic explained well and professionally, of course, the matter of the Criminal Procedure Act, but remains the problem of proof. However, international police intelligence co-operation could contribute to this problem in practice when the law comes into force and we ease. According to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, as well as the confirmed international contracts that we, like this Assembly, have ratified, our judiciary under certain conditions can benefit from evidence provided by foreign police intelligence services. In that context, I want to trust our judiciary, and I want to trust our investigative authorities, and I want to believe in our police and our security forces, that they will work securely and responsibly, because finally through this law, through the introduction of these crimes, they have instruments, they have mechanisms in their hands on the basis of which they will work. So I thank you very much once again, and I will see you on the day that we discuss in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-08-0.u10117	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. I am finalising a principled review of the Bill on Criminal Code Supplements and the continuation of the session following the debate on amendments is on Friday at 10.00 p.m.
