ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8476	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, at the beginning of the debate in principle, allow me to give a few introductory notes concerning a package of laws relating to the state administration, status and rights of civil servants in the Republic of Serbia, and this is a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on salaries in public authorities and public services, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration. Proposals for legislation to be discussed today in the National Assembly have been prepared to coordinate the position of employees in the state administration with employees to whom the recently adopted provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act apply. This harmonisation of opportunities is also for the adoption of other amendments and additions to strengthen the state official or public service system. The proposed solutions are the result of continuous monitoring of the state administration and civil servants system and the observed need for certain issues to be addressed in a way that will ensure more effective work, harmonised functioning of the public administration authorities and the improvement of the capacity of the state service system. These changes do not alter the essential aspects or the way the state service system works or is rewarded. Generally, it is about uncontested interventions due to obvious discrepancies, missing solutions or harmonisation with accepted international standards or reform routes adopted by strategic documents in RS. However, today's debate is the beginning of the serious changes ahead, both in legislation and institutional terms, in order to establish a unique, functional, efficient, professional service system that will be addressed to citizens and businesses. The changes ahead of you are also on the way for deeper reforms in the way in which the public-service system is rewarded and disrupted, and which the government is preparing for later this year. Newspapers, which are now subject to the first order of raising the quality of work and professionalisation of the service system, increased responsibility, especially officials in the position, efficiency and economy of individual procedures, as well as compliance with other regulations in the field of work and education. On the other hand, and not less importantly, the harmonisation of the rules with amendments and additions to the Labour Act withdraws the government's reform commitment and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to apply certain principles and measures to all, without exception. Proposals for a law supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, as well as the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Salaries of Civil Servants and Paids, both of these proposals contain short amendments aimed at regulating the issue of past work in state bodies and public services according to all employees in the same way and agreeing with the Labour Act. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, as one of the largest newspapers in the proposal for this law, constitutes provisions relating to professional training, internships, special examinations aimed at strengthening capacity and quality and more efficient management of civil servants. This is an essential commitment set out in the Government's Strategy for professional training of civil servants in the Republic of Serbia and the Action Plan for the implementation of the professional training strategy of civil servants in the Republic of Serbia for the period 2013 to 2015. The objective was to set the necessary legal framework for a new, improved and sustainable system of professional training of civil servants at the central level. In this respect, professional training becomes the right and obligation of a civil servant, strengthened by the requirement that the manager is obliged to enable this form of improvement of knowledge and skills in accordance with the tasks performed by the employee. Compared to the current regime, it is the newspaper that the general training programmes of state officials from the government's authorities and services are brought by a minister in charge of the administration's affairs, according to a previously obtained opinion of the High Official Council. The exception to this rule, due to the specificity of the content and the necessary specific knowledge and skills related to the establishment of professional training from the EU area, is proposed that programmes in this area be brought by the Director of the Government's Office for Co-ordination of EU Affairs, also in the opinion of the High Official Council. The paper in the law is also professional training through internships in accordance with the general and special training programmes of civil servants from government authorities and government services, as well as on the basis of a special agreement on international co-operation, with the regulation of the rights and obligations of civil servants during and after the completion of the internship. In order to ensure a sustainable system of professional training and the purpose of the use of budgetary resources intended for the professional training of civil servants, these changes propose that the funds for the general training programmes of civil servants organised by the staff management service be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia at the appropriate amount of the total funds provided for the salaries of all employees from the government authorities and services. This is at the same time a way to operationalise the principle of sustainability, as well as the rights and obligations of professional training officers. Accordingly, the provisions relating to internships are particularly important, enabling officials to acquire special knowledge and skills, including abroad, with the obligation to spend twice as much time as the time of the internship at the workplace after the internship period. In this way, the state will allow for the preparation of personnel, not only in the EU accession process, but also competent and effective action towards EU standards. In addition, this law improves certain solutions contained in the Law on civil servants, on the state-owned examination and on the specific expert examination, the way trainees are introduced into work and training trainees to pass a state-run expert exam. It also introduces an ethical code as a legal category which brings the High Official Council with the obligation of the Authority to provide the necessary information regarding the application of the Code. The law technicalally harmonizes the conditions for the conduct of operations in the context of the call of civil servants at executive posts and conditions for the performance of civil servants in a position in accordance with the provisions of the Higher Education Act. The second large area concerns improving procedures, delivering letters and advertising of public competitions. These improvements also contain provisions on how to advertise a public competition, are compatible with European standards and are compatible with the principle of modernising the state administration. The expected effects of the proposed solutions are cost-effectiveness, reliability, availability and economy of advertising. One of the major objectives of public administration reform is the professionalisation and depoliticalisation of the official system. The proposed amendments and additions shall provide for the introduction of the Institute of Labour Officers, which has been identified as a position in a limited duration, for a maximum of nine months, and with the obligation to hold a competition within the scheduled time limit to fill the position and position of a civil servant. This is a significant newspaper that overcomes the problem of placing officers directly, without competition, which has well burdened the system so far. In particular, it should be borne in mind that, on this issue, the Law on civil servants has repeatedly been introduced, but that earlier solutions mainly related to the extension of the public competition deadline to the positions have not yielded the desired results, and that the proposed change will ensure the sustainability of the official system in a position with the provision of conditions for the operation and functioning of the public administration authorities in full capacity, in the period until the full position of the civil servant is completed. The proposed changes have also been specified and the legal consequences of the evaluation have been tightened when it comes to civil servants in position, establishing a direct hierarchy, i.e. Subordination in the process of determining responsibility for the work of civil servants in place. Namely, a more direct disciplinary responsibility of officials in position is introduced, the criteria for assessing and introducing a new basis for the resolution of the head of the person's body in office are strengthened. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration proposes amendments to the position of directors and deputy directors of a special organisation, the position of the Head of Administrative District and the conditions to be met by the civil servant in order to give authority, to conduct the administrative procedure and to decide on the rights and obligations of natural and legal persons. As a result, specific organisations carry out relevant professional activities for all authorities of the state administration, i.e. professional tasks that require the application of specific methods and knowledge and related executive tasks. This law suggests that experts who perform the tasks of teachers of a higher education institution are allowed to perform the tasks of teachers of a higher education institution in addition to the management of a special organisation at the same time. The solution is designed to provide the necessary capacity to improve the quality of the work of these public administration bodies requiring specific expertise. In this regard, it was in the light of the overall legal system in which similar legal arrangements were represented, e.g. for the judges of the Constitutional Court. Also, given that the tasks of the Head of Management of the District, governed by the Law on State Administration, play a coordinated role in particular and involve activities aimed at harmonising the work of the county departments of the State Administration, co-operation with the departments of state administration bodies that are not educated in the area of the administrative district, and over-cooperation with municipalities and cities from the territory of the administrative district. In practice, it has been shown that their status as a civil servant is not in line with the powers which, according to the law and other regulations, belong to them. The law therefore proposes to amend the status of the management district's chief as a official appointed and resolved by the government for four years, on a proposal from the Minister in charge of the administration's affairs, in order to provide the necessary support for the implementation of the government's policy. At the end of this opening presentation, let me thank you for your attention and express my confidence that after the debate in principle and in particular the proposed laws will be adopted and that this will create conditions for some technical and actually sensitive improvements in the system of state administration and the state-service system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8477	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8478	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister of Udovici, representatives of the Ministry of State Administration and of Local Self-Government, colleagues and colleagues, with the exception of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants, which the Minister explained in detail, which are, in some respect, in addition to the existing provisions of that law, the remaining three laws, which are the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to State Authorities and Public Services, which firstly governs the position and duties of directors of special organisations and their deputies, just as the Minister stated, and the Head of the Labour Act on Labour and Finally, the Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on State Administration, which governs the position and duties of the Directors of the Special Organisations and their Deputys, as well as the Ministers of the Ministers, and the Ministers of the Ministers, can say, from this point of the terms of time, are difficult to say that in terms, in terms, in terms, in terms, and in terms of time. Of course, that's where I have to agree with Minister Udovicki who says that these changes are actually not one essential aspect and that's for sure. But I will quote further: “Today’s debate is the beginning of serious changes. ” I think that the seriousness that you're going for, no matter how small this initial step today is, and he certainly is, I think it's necessary, in order to put order in what we need better, and that's exactly the state administration. The reform of the state administration represents an extremely serious, crucial and fundamental requirement for Serbia to move towards the EU path. It is certain that this reform process, and I think that you are serious enough and that you have understood it that way, must be permanent, permanent, continuous, however you like, which is certainly what political will requires. Let us not lie, the political will for such a thing is necessary and necessary, and so it is in all orderly countries. What has proved to be an extremely big problem in the practical life of the so far functioning of our state administration is this partiality. Somehow everyone seems to be in charge of a particular question, each of them is in charge of a particular segment, doesn't look at it in the field with other segments, and he should think of that sort of thing, but rather sees it as one isolated continent, as enough for himself and as if other systems and other parts of the state administration, if you want to – public administrations, certainly don't exist. The weak economies of which countries have always had the consequences of needless increases in the administration. The different influences of different political parties in history, not only of our countries but of other countries, for example, in the environment, seems to have crossed the line of good taste a long time ago. In addition, a good administration can be the only administration that is deprived of absolutely any political will whatsoever, whatever political will it is, and it seems to me that only such administration can have and can enjoy legitimacy. Long ago, we are just talking about the necessity of reforming the state administration, that the previous decades, which all of us witnesses have caused a decline in efficiency, on the one hand, which you mentioned in your presentation and, on the other hand, caused a disproportionate increase in the number of employees in that branch. It is also noticeable that, at the same time as the fall in efficiency in the state administration, it is also a fall in efficiency in the economy at all. What is manifesting as a single natural legality is that the increase in the number of employees in the state administration creates less and less employees, or, if you will, less productive employees in the economy, and about the private sector, I think it's unnecessary to talk at this point. It seems to me, in the past, that it's easier for us to change the state, that it's easier for us to change the name of the country we live in than we're willing to change the public administration and its functioning. And, of course, decades of irresponsibility have created the same kind of people, so also irresponsible people employed in the public administration. I doubt it is true that any changes and additions or new laws will change the efficiency of the state administration, at least not in a shorter time. It's a process that requires a continuous and one, after all, hard work. We need, I think, a way to change exactly the efficiency, the qualifications, the quality of the people who will act, if you will, and the pillar of that state administration, therefore, to create a qualified frame. In that sense, I'll agree with you for your recent statement, of course. Namely, at the constitutional session of the Public Administration Reform Council, which you chaired and presented the Action Plan for the implementation of the Public Administration Reform in the Republic of Serbia for the period 2014 to 2016, which DHSS read in detail and which should be the basis for the functioning of the change in the overall public administration, it said that the analysis of the conclusion appeared that the real problems were not conditioned by too many employees. Of course, in front of the DHSS, they cannot agree, because many countries, not only in the environment, but in the European orderly countries, function impeccably with a drastically smaller number of public administration employees, but are, in fact, conditioned primarily by insufficient human qualifications, and I will add - or to a complete absence of qualifications. And also, I agree, and I'm going to add -- to this and this administration, it seems to me that the most qualified bar doesn't even participate in it. It's, of course, my subjective opinion, which you can agree on or disagree with. That's why, I think, that efficiency and qualification is what I'm talking about and what I'm saying, that the essence of everything and the essence of it is crucial so that the public administration of our country really takes the forms it should have long ago. How, for example, do you explain that, for example, the State Administration Act of 30 years ago worked perfectly and was perfectly applicable, implemented in practice, and let's say that this law, the Law on State Administration, is not today absolutely not? I'm not just thinking about today, I'm thinking about a long line of years when I say the word today. The amendments to all these laws, the set of these laws that are before us today and we are discussing in principle are necessary, but I think the essence of everything is ignored. The need for people to change has been ignored. Because ultimately, people are those who pass the law, people are the ones who apply the law and people are the object over which this same law applies, in terms of qualifications, in terms of efficiency, in terms of expertise, however you want, but also in terms of general culture, in terms of education, in terms of the real system of values which, unfortunately, today in Serbia is almost unrecognizable. You see, the lack of even that elemental culture, the apparent one, if you want a forced smile, creates, seems to me, a job for five people. Let's say, if you have an official in the state authority of the administration or, for example, in the municipality as a unit of local self-government, so it's impertinent, the party responds in the same way, so boldly, as well as rudely, then, for example, the official will not teach the party about the rights and obligations that follow, so let's say, the party makes some kind of a failure and, in that sense, makes a cardinal mistake, and then, let's say, follow up on the adoption of one reluctant solution, and then you can write about what complaints, in the end, and complains to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and then imagine, you come to one paradoxal situation that the most serious and most banal problem of dealing with, say, say, five to ten people. Something like that is inadmissible. We still don't have a comprehensive register that would provide complete and accurate data and it seems to me that optimization of the public administration is what demochrists particularly insist on, at this point in time, still unattainable for us. I'm saying at this point, and I hope the conditions are created and really one real basis for it to happen. Since we can only talk about it at this point, and I'm sure we all have and share the same desire and strive, until one comprehensive and comprehensive analysis of the public administration is carried out, but also not just public administrations, but also public administration subsystems, and all of this goes to a practical life, then there's no talking about strengthening the private sector, and I think it's just a strong private sector on our cross, I'd say, a dry need, which, unfortunately, is now at a completely invisible level. It is the private sector that should have primate, which should be a guide and which should be a pillar not only of society, not only of economy, such as in many European countries, because a strong private sector at the end of the season, and ultimately, it is always one that contributes to a significant increase in the overall GDP of any country. You recently stated that the number of employees in the public administration, who counts over, seems to me, correct me if I'm wrong, 550,000, is reduced by about 5% year-on-year in the next three years. I support that. Look, that would be fantastic and more than excellent, but what I'm personally interested in is what mechanisms you're going to achieve, and if you do, I say, it would be extraordinary to do something like that, my question is which mechanisms you're going to maintain and, most importantly, how are you going to control it? What you know is that, of course, everyone would prefer to define themselves for the job and for the entanglement of the state administration for a long time, so I have to say, more than a parasite, and I think absolutely all the citizens of this country know that. Also, you recently mentioned agencies. There, I can agree with you that the question of terminology can always be dangerous, so under agencies, they can mean what bodies that they no longer know what they're dealing with, or who they're working with, but if we exclude independent regulatory bodies, which are certainly not, and many of them are chasing them, so, under independent regulatory bodies, those bodies that aren't like that, say, the Galactic or the Citizens' Protector. Of course, what I'm interested in is when and whether the number of agencies in our country can be determined at all, because at this point I don't think the resolution ministry, as you said, knows it, but that's why it's well known to all of us here or to the citizens of Serbia, that all of these powerful agencies, whatever they're called, whatever they're doing, no matter how many employees they have, are bringing in such systems that they're experiencing changes at almost daily level, so that these same systems are invented functions, in order to invent jobs that don't seem to me anywhere in the world, at least in what we call civilized and I'm sure. Of course, in the above-mentioned action plan that I have read and it is excellent that it is transparent and shown on the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government site, it is further stated that the implementation of the draft law to regulate the establishment of official records on bodies and state entities in the public administration system will be carried out in May 2015, that the debate on it will be conducted in June 2015, and that this proposal will be found here in September 2015 and will be discussed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in front of MPs. The fact that, as much as there are problems in this matter, enough is the fact that an action plan has been left for a year, and according to the DHSS, in Serbia, given the way in which I express myself, all those reporting proportions that cannot even be seen in our state administration, it seems to me that the deadline is too ambitious. Well, it's an honor if you do it in a year, but in my opinion, it's too ambitious to do what you've drawn up there as framework deadlines, as I think, are also too ambitious deadlines for the adoption of a decentralisation strategy for the adoption of regional development law, because passing the law is one thing, and applying the law is another and esteeming its application in practical life is a third. The prerequisite of all these conditions is to create a basis for its application. I'm not sure how long we're ready for that right now. Dear Minister, you, as responsible and as someone who is in the resolution ministry whose set of laws we are discussing today and as responsible in general for the functioning of the state administration, have an extremely difficult task and I think you are aware of that yourself. In addition to all together, when I say all together, the National Assembly is the one who, after all, adopts the laws of which you are the promoter, we have to change what is obsolete, so to speak, which time has long run over, but it seems to me that on the other hand you will have a strong responsibility to try to at least partially restore the spirit of the sacrificed act, which, unfortunately, has long been lost in Serbia. Of course, the state administration and local self-government consist of over half a million, correct if I have made a mistake in this amount, various officials and it is quite certain that you or anyone performs the function, and the Minister of State Administration and local self-government will not be able to fulfill anything like that and you will not be able to do it. If you do this, huge movements in the ministry and correct it in the ministry, you won't be able to, say, in the agencies, and if you can do something like that in the agencies, you won't be able to do it in any body of the state administration or, say, in the municipality as a unit of local self-government. I'm only quoting this to understand the weight of the work that's on you and your colleagues who are at the head of this resolution ministry. Of course, on the other hand, it's not possible to fire all inefficient bureaucrats. You know, they've been lying down for years, so they can't all get fired at the same time. Even if such a thing were possible, they could not fill that lack with quality personnel. There's one thing that I think I can do, and I'm going to make it public now, and I think it can be done during one term, because the time that it's going on provides quite enough space for that kind of thing, and that's creating a sustainable system to fill quality personnel so that we can year by year and create one state-wide precisely efficiently and justly enough that we all want it, and I think that sign of justice today, and a number of years ago, it doesn't wear it. I believe that these laws, as you yourself have said, are the amendments and additions of existing draft laws, one of these necessary steps. I'm going to take the opportunity to point out one thing for me that's extremely important to me at this point, I think, I've forgotten. Serbia, unfortunately, because of everything that has been happening to us, is not an investment attractive country as much as it should be, among other things, because the investments here are not safe. When I talk about investment security, I don't mean their banal and physical security, but that security concerns the availability and efficiency of legal mechanisms that move in individual situations. I don't think that everything we're talking about today can be looked at in isolation and in part in relation to a chapter on justice that represents an extremely important chapter, at least when it comes to accession negotiations with the EU. However, as long as our legal mechanisms and our judiciary at all, until we establish it so that it is truly on one representative level, at the level of developed countries, it will be many years. From the point of view of foreign investment, all those years will be wasted and will be wasted, lost years. Some countries have dealt with this by means of a transitional mechanism, which is the establishment of bodies that they will have and whose jurisdiction is only to deal with the security of investments, however the body bears the name. I think it is important and my proposal is to think about the establishment of such a body and to hire in such a body absolutely the best fit that this country has and it must be people who represent the very cream of Serbian education society. Dear Minister, many ministers before you have thought about this topic, about reforming the entire public administration, but either they didn't have enough courage or they didn't have enough time to realize everything they had imagined and realized. It seems to me that something like this was done 15 years ago, today we'd have a different climate and political and investment and whatever. As it turns out, for example, the Court of Organized Crime has managed to reduce the number of organised criminal groups, so I am also sure that the investment security body would achieve such a thing in this particular area, since it would have the authority of a state administration that would accumulate in itself. I believe that you are the Minister and the Most Invited, and I believe that as a person you are best suited to take the first steps towards creating such mechanisms. This is where I end up, because my time is running out. It will certainly just speed up your intention, which is good, which is pictured, I say a small part, but again presented in these amendments to the law, which is that to all people who want to invest and to all people who want to build in this country, we create conditions for a quality state apparatus, as we should earn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8479	Time. Thank you. The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8480	I would like to thank Mrs Batic for the careful preparation and reading of the action plan and understanding of the vision that can be seen from it both the efforts and objectives this ministry and government have in the area of public administration reform. Also, on the given deep understanding of how difficult this reform is, on the one hand, demanding, how much time it will take, and on the other hand, how much it is the basis of all the improvements we want to make in public life and in general for our country's development. In that context, I had a dilemma about how to perform and in my opening statement whether and how much to look at longer-term intentions. Yet here we have one package of laws that has some changes and I decided it's important to make it clear that it's not what we're talking about in public, that only big changes are coming, and that we focus on what's in the package. I welcome this opportunity to point out that we have a draft action plan for now. There's a lot of ambition in it. There's still parts in it. It is very large, because the work that needs to be done is large and some of it is directly imposed on the Public Administration Reform Strategy, but still, as the Devil says, is in the details and how we think and think, so some of the items in it are still changing and it is not the final text. In that context, I'd really appreciate it if we could get your presentation and a proposal at the Ministry as soon as possible, because it's working on this intensively. However, you asked about the mechanisms for reducing the number of employees and whether we could count the agencies. I would point out again, if we shut down public enterprises, the total number of public administration employees doesn't bounce as much as they believe. There may be one gray zone of people under the contract that we haven't recorded yet, but the people on the contract are easier to solve than the employees. Indeed, the reform that is ahead of us will not primarily be aimed at reducing public administration employees. First of all, we make an effective state. Because of that, those numbers won't be big. They must rely on a natural outflow both here and there when restructured and functional reorganisation. Functional reorganisation is what's most important. It takes time, it takes an opinion, and it takes, as you recognize, a very good preparation and organisation at the level of the government and the Ministry, above all, the authority that needs to carry out the whole procedure and oversee it. It's not a focus, and 5% may still be just one very indicative figure, and it's possible that when we look at all the different and new frames we need, we might have to increase there. The example is that the ministry, which currently looked at how to reduce costs, recognized that the best way would be for some people employed under the contract to enter into the ministry, to fire others completely and to plan to increase employees with a reduction of costs, and fully justified. We are still studying and expecting serious assistance from the international community in this regard. I wouldn't go back on this subject unless necessary during this debate. Also, when it comes to agencies, of course there are lists, but it's not a reliable register. It's not just agencies. There is a problem that this issue has to be settled, studied to the end, in order to carefully remove what is excess, which is unnecessary, which can be combined with some existing institutions, without disrupting the already weak capacity for action, which is necessary in our country over. So we're going to do this thinking and analysis by the end of the year, and we're not going out before that with some definitive attitudes and numbers. But the intention to do that is absolutely solid and one of the easier jobs ahead of us. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8481	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Marinkovic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8482	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly to express my confidence and strong support for the SDPS for what is the objective in our opinion of amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants and all that means the Strategy for State Administration Reform in the coming period and all those legal solutions and legislative regulations that strive to have a cheap, efficient and small state. You've already said a lot of things and a lot of details in the opening speech. What our party thinks is very important is that we have this framework. What was the key thing, I'll remind you of the prime minister's exposés, the establishment of public policy secretariats, and that's the key thing that our civil servants, or public administration, as we still call it, should be called public management, you know that, should be supporting the economy, support and good service to citizens, not an obstacle to the establishment and achievement of those rights that citizens of the Republic of Serbia have. We stand for the non-Oberian state. Weber clearly said in his theory that the state should not have bureaucrats who only rule the legal aspects of certain spheres of legal science and legal practice, but the state must have professionals who are daily, every moment focused on meeting the needs of citizens, and in today's time, in the 21st century, what is most important for the state, what is most important for Serbia, is to create a good environment, primarily a regulatory environment for both domestic and foreign investment. Who does that depend on? It depends on the people who are employed by the state administration. In order to have an efficient state administration, to have a small and cheap state, we must first define what the public sector is. You said yourself on several occasions that it has not yet been defined. We agree that the state and the public sector and your ministry, which will have a lot of work to do, if not the most responsible job, since the public sector represents a pillar of the development of a state, to define, to say where we can make savings, how to implement a professional training strategy. How come we don't know what number of employees we have? How when we don't know what it is and what it is, how the Republic of Serbia, here we meet daily when it comes to attracting foreign investment. Ask the representatives of any local self-government of any city and tell you who will tell you that it knows and that it is precisely determined what its property is, what it can offer and what human capital and what people can offer in terms of attracting investors and saying – here we are offering this, this is the property of the city, the municipality or the Republic of Serbia, so that we can raise and speed up economic activity and activity. We in the SDPS suggest that in this sense the methodology of integrated public policy planning systems should be applied, as you say, to three pillars. It is the adoption of a strategy and administration in the Republic of Serbia. This is the adoption of standards and human resources management procedures in line with how serious, developed countries in the world do it. Of course, it's not easy. The United States, starting from Regan, to now, up to Obama, you know for yourself, in every term, every administration makes new strategies, forms new public administration management agendas, forms productivity advice, and everyone has that intensity to make a cheap and small state. We have a big country. It represents one big, how do I say, dinosaur, that needs to fit into one serious system. As you say, not to save and not to reform the state administration staff, but to make that administration efficient, effective, have a clear professional training strategy that is consistent with our country's economic development strategy in the coming long term. What is a problem for us is this level of isolation for professional training in the public sector. It is also small, given the financial situation in our country, 0.01% is below average, below standard, not only in the EU, but also in other developing countries. I will mention the example of Croatia. It's 3% there, but we have to start with something. We have the opportunity to use IPA funds and other funds that will allow us to develop state administration and capacities and the potential of people working in the state administration. We need to have a clear plan, a human resource plan, an analysis and job design. What the European Commission has given us as a single remark are procedures in the recruitment process and selection of personnel, management and evaluation of performances. So, not a system based on sensitivity, but we have to build a system based on impact, as well as in the private sector. That's the only way we're gonna secure a game of human abilities and knowledge. So, those who are highly educated, those who are willing to work for their country, those who want to contribute to their country, because every place in the public sector, every function in the public sector, besides the profits that should represent something that is normal, should be a special honor for all people who are employed here, because they have more responsibility than those who work in the private sector. That is why we need to change and change the situation, that people in the private sector are much more competitive, have much better and quality skills and much better education than people who work in the public sector. I'll remind you that in the United States, research has been done in 88% of the competitiveness of the labour market, and this is precisely derived from these skills and abilities that are acquired in the informal education process. That's why it's important that you define how it's going to be directed here, how it's going to be a policy of professional training for people employed in the state administration. We propose and appeal that, if possible, what has been defined by the 2004 Strategy, the 2013 Strategy, the 2013 strategy for professional training from 2013 to 2016, establish a training centre and try to change things from the root to the termology itself. We still have personnel management. We still have the general services. In the developed world, in market economies, in the modern public management, each unit, each state institution has a special sector, division, management and development of human resources, which does not mean a naked record of the reporting and reporting of new employees and those who retire and go to other businesses and other companies, but involves a whole set, a whole body that defines the development strategy of human resources, which is development, that is education, it is an investment in what, through good service, citizens and businesses will return to us. That's why it's important to implement this so-called. Chris, the human resource information system, which is important to us always, as a minister and people who do this, you have a clear database that people work for you in certain services, ministries, sectors, what their professional path is, where they need to invest, who needs to be educated and for what jobs, so that their mission and mission of the ministry and the government themselves can be successful. The prime minister himself spoke in an exposé about the importance and coordination of public policies. I'm just going to remind you that government employees have another important aspect of their operation, which is public finances, these are the enormous material and financial resources of our country that need not only legal management, but purposely, effectively. It's worth the money. So what we pay, what we invest, to get the best value for it or, if possible, to make it very worth our while in some domain. As far as professional training is concerned, I suggest that we consider making a clearer and more detailed strategy that these programmes are and that it be supervised by you as Minister of State Administration. What is important is what I said earlier, and that is that the system of human resources management procedures and their introduction is very important in order to monitor this professional training and to know which civil servants have been educated and what they are capable of and what they can do in the next period. So that we can evaluate their characteristics, so that we can implement the award policy, the motivation that's very important, because today we have a public sector that's too massive, in which a lot of people work with relatively decent salaries. I'll remind you, the gross average salary in the public sector, not in the public sector, but in the public administration, you know what I'm talking about, is 75,000 dinars. Our intensity should be to increase the efficiency of people, that if it is possible, if they work more, if they work better and better, if they contribute better to citizens and businesses, to make their wages bigger, and, ultimately, to eliminate one of the governments, not only in public administration, but also in public enterprises, where you can do much, make a full contribution, you have the same salary, the same pay as those others who do not work enough and are unable to meet the duties and obligations that modern economy and this moment in which we live. So, he's expecting you, surely, one hard work. Professionalization of public administration but professionalization of what is called public service. It'll be even harder for you. Given that we will definitely change the Law on Public Enterprises, we need Serbia at this point to be the best, best-quality people. As I said earlier that we would have a good regulatory framework, to have a good environment, all depends on people who work right in the state administration. That's why we need the best people in public enterprises, people who know good legal science, who know good finance, who ultimately made money on the market in accordance with procedures. It's very important that we implement that system as well. In my humble opinion, and the position is SDPS, it's very difficult for someone who doesn't make money on the market, who doesn't know how to split it at the end of the month's salary, to manage, not a system of large, not a large public enterprise, not an electricity company, or any giant, but any institution, directorship, sector in the public administration. That is why it is important to bring the recruitment and selection process into line with the standards that it has defined for us and which the European Commission has proposed to us so that on the concept of their knowledge, but especially education and skills, knowledge of foreign languages and everything that defines the competitiveness of someone on the labour market, we can have the best people to make our businesses and our public sector much more effective, much more efficient and of course more productive. When you analyze the situation a little bit better, we have the biggest problems in the public sector. Like any country, we have natural resources, we have good human resources if we co-ordinate well with the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development we can also coordinate this policy of public sector development but also businesses with the system and education development strategy in the coming period, but what we need through is your job, because you will oversee the work of the public policy secretariats to be competitive, to bring them into line and to be in key places in the country best quality and best people. I am sure that with your experience in market economies, in international organisations you know well and what is most important, you understand well what kind of market approach it is that I am talking about in order for the public sector to become what the pillar for the development of the private sector, for the development of every citizen, for the development of education and of course for the alignment of all these policies because of what is most important to us, and the SDPS will support every step and effort in this sense, and that is new employment and that is economic growth and economic development that we deserve and which we can, both with natural resources and with human resources that we possess to implement and implement in a very successful way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8483	I thank Professor Marinkovic. The word is by MP Vojislav Vujic, a representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8484	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministerial Council of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin by saying that the JS parliamentary group will support all these four proposals that are under discussion today. I'm going to look at them very briefly, because I'm planning a little different from my predecessor, who is very specific and with very good suggestions he explained in a very unique way. I commend him for that. The first Law on civil servants, in the shortest possible, reduces the level of public expenditure and creates a presumption of its financing from real sources, while fulfilling the obligations set out in the 2012 Agreement with the EU on support, improvement and professional training of civil servants. The third law is the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants. It concerns 0.4% of those who pay more attention these days than the other three laws. People are most interested in it, and everyone thinks it'll put them at risk. I see it a little differently, and I don't think they'll be threatened. After all, it's one of the flows of time that we've all been quick to give up, and we've been expecting to get into a new time where maybe unlike the previous, we won't have to work without being able to live more easily. Unfortunately, with the change of that system and that time, we are entering trends that are absolutely suited to today's time, and that is to be rewarded for your work as much as you do. So this category of past work existed in this way only with us. In the world, it is determined in a different way. Your profit and salary level determines your quality and employer with which you negotiate terms before you start working. There is also the State Administration Act proposed in this article. Redefining the status of director and deputy business organisations is being carried out. A change in the administrative district's status is being made by the head of the management district from the state official's status in office becoming a functioner status, which is also logical because it is appointed by the government. The proposed solution overcomes problems in current practice by changing conditions for the management of administrative procedure and decision on the rights and obligations of natural and legal persons. These days, when we appointed new finance and business ministers, we said they were now in a hot chair. To be honest, if we have to measure whose chair is hot right now, yours isn't far from these two chairs either. I think your ministry's co-operation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Business is most important and I think the only possibility of this combination is with the help of the entire government to resolve this Gordi knot we've been in for over ten years. The fact is that around 600,000 people work in the real sector in Serbia, with more than 800,000 working in the public sector, public authorities or whatever. It's devastating and terrifying. The fact that in the real sector in the economy since 2008, more than 280 thousand people have lost their jobs and even more dangerously that in that period more than 245,000 people are employed in the public sector is something that needs to be burdened most in the coming period as a resilient minister and then all others. What's interesting is that once in a federal state with all republics the entire state administration was responsible for the work of all these former republics was placed in the SIV building. Today we have only Serbia, we have a crowded building of SIV, we have a crowded building in Germany, and we have a lot of other objects that we're paying in rent to get all these officials settled. There is no better situation in municipalities or in cities, there is one rule – the last to come to work, there is nowhere to sit. That's funny, but it's devastating for all these years and for those people who have an obligation and have accepted the challenge to put it in order and to solve it. I believe you'll figure this out. That's exactly what I see one big chance of making the savings the Prime Minister's talking about. We are aware that public spending in the last few months with various restrictions may have been brought closer to the optimum than maximum, but we have much more and we can save. It's this segment we're talking about right now that I see as one big possibility of saving. This savings and this resource that we're going to make by reorganizing and, above all, by your efforts and by putting the Ministry of Economy and Finance, we need to focus again on the same economy. What I'm saying is, before I open that topic, we should certainly reward those officials and civil servants who are doing their job responsibly. We are aware that a large number of people are in this particular service, which citizens are most resentful of all governments, just politically accepted. These were the moments when people hired each other. We don't have to look at it globally and put all the people there because there are people who do their job very responsibly, people who are professional for these jobs. The law itself says you have to have at least five years of work experience in order to be able to do such a job. I think they need to be singled out of some system, rewarded and given a chance to further improve and move forward in their careers. Mr. Markovic talked about it the other day when he said that also in the public sector when we have successful directors, when we have people who are responsible for doing their jobs, who are full of budgets, we have to separate them from the others and we have to reward them. Again, I return to this collaboration with the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance, it is evident when we say that 600,000 people work in the real sector that it is simply impossible and amazing that they manage to cover over 800,000 people who work in the public sector in the state administration, and I'm not sure that today we have an exact list that we can say exactly how many people do there, when we have a number of unemployed, of course, the number of pensioners and all those who are not able to do it yet. So we have 600,000 people on their backs carrying this whole one system and our entire country. They need to be met by being relieved, by having to work together to bring new investors and on the other hand, to be honest with each other without any need to be able to give praise and criticism to anyone who deals with politics in this country, but what we have to admit is that the prime minister has invested himself most in this job, he recognized the problems. Very often we meet him at different destinations across Europe and around the world. His desire to start all this and probably want to do everything in the best possible way is difficult to realize if we all don't get involved, and above all I think about all of you sitting in government, I mean all those officials who run serious systems in the Republic of Serbia and I also think about the mayors and presidents of municipalities. What I'm talking about right now is obvious as a problem. That doesn't have to scare anyone. So it's obvious that we have extra people working in the public sector. In that reorganisation that we expect to see here in parliament, the proposals that you're going to send us will certainly create one surplus, but if everyone mentions it, they give some of their maximum in bringing investors, in rehabilitating these companies, companies currently in the privatisation phase, all of these companies that are in restructuring. I don't think those surpluses are gonna be sensitive, or anything else, we're gonna need more people to fill all those places. But an example of how it should be done cannot be given only Dragan Markovic, who is mayor of Jagodina and you all know that the industrial zone is filled with five new investors, an industrial zone that will quickly employ 3,000 people. It's just one town. We have over 150 cities and municipalities. I ask that from your position someone who has a direct relationship with local administrations are under your administration, state authorities, heads of state, and even in communication with the presidents of municipalities and mayors you are one of the ministers who will literally give them a warrant and instruct them that these jobs they do are not only and that they need to play some figurines and receive salaries from the first to the first, but they have to invest themselves, to invest their time, if anything, at least the way the prime minister does and at the local site as Dragan Markovic does. That's not impossible. The evidence is that all these contacts made in some European countries have an investor as a consequence. You can make 20 contacts. It's not easy to do, either, but you'll find one investor. If you sit and wait, you won't find any. So here's my suggestion that you're engaged in this direction. On the other hand, a colleague just said how much public sector wages are. The state sector, the public sector, we can factor it all out, but the hands on the heart, the wages that education has today, the police, health care, they're not big anymore. They are not big and I certainly admire anyone who succeeds with such a salary from first to first to close the home budget. What's paradox and what's more burdening me is that in the real sector wages are lower than the ones we're talking about. It's those 600,000 people who carry our entire system. Your job is to make these salaries in the public sector bigger, and to make it harder, to make them bigger in the real sector than in this public sector, to send young people a message that you don't have to drag everyone around to hire you in a public enterprise, to hire you in a state institution, but to send them a message that if they finish schools, if they're able and trained to do what they're trained to do, they need a job right now to look in the real sector, and that's the beginning of those stories – when they say some past work is being taken away, no. When you have experience and you have knowledge, you make arrangements with your employer how much your salary is, and that's a message to everyone, especially young people. Explore, for those who are currently studying, on that road, finish specializations, colleges. I think it's been a while for Serbia to turn around. When I talked about who's hot and whose chair is hot, I think unlike these other ministries, I can't tell you the last one, but right now the only chance you have of doing something in the public sector. All this other stuff that other ministers are doing, and let's not make those savings in the public sector, first of all in the state administration, I think it's falling into the water. As far as all four laws are concerned, once again I say the JS parliamentary group will support all four laws. I'm going to ask you to do what the media talked about, which is pay grade, it finally comes to the agenda, that it's the same moment where we can barely separate people who work and people who don't work. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8485	Snezana Malovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8486	Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, today is on the agenda of the session of this distinguished House to amend and supplement four laws relating to the work of the state administration, but also to the rights and responsibilities, as well as the status of public officials, tenants and employees in public services. I believe and want to believe, as you yourself have said in your opening statement that these draft laws represent only an initial step in the long-declared reform of the state administration. They, as you said, do not change the essential aspect of functioning, as well as the award of public officials and they are a wave of technical character and represent a alignment with the recently adopted Labour Act or, like the Law on Civil Servants, they are necessary and necessary solutions that require a quick reaction. I therefore believe today that the main theme of today's meeting is seeing in the direction of state administration reform, which is also one of the most important stated objectives of government and your ministry. The reform of the state administration has been a topic that has been addressed by governments since 2000 and is being placed here in its main objectives. The reform of an important, basic and operational segment of the state system, such as the state administration, is not easy, is not a simple process and it is clear to all that it cannot be achieved in a short period. When we talk about the reform of the state administration, but also the reform of the functioning of local self-government and public enterprises, it is necessary to refer to the facts they are saying next – it is employed in the public sector somewhere around 780,000 people, without public enterprises, that number is around 550,000 people, employees in the private sector are 900,000 people, the total number of pensioners is one million and 700,000 people, and those receiving social assistance is 180,000 people. Since this number was often presented in different numbers in public, I used data from the Prime Minister's exposé. When we look at all these numbers, we come to the conclusion that employees are less than pensioners, and we should bear in mind that one number of private sector persons are employed in restructure companies, as well as persons who do not regularly pay taxes and contributions from the employer, which was a lot of words in this respected home and I would not be able to hold on to it. The data continues to suggest that the number of employees in the state administration in 2014 was 28,041 persons, and in local self-government about 163,000 people. This number of employees in the state administration and in general in the public sector is very high and is significantly higher than countries in the region, but also countries in the EU. However, I do not think it is good to see a linear reduction in employees, or a linear reduction in wages, as the purpose of public administration reform will not be achieved, nor will it be made more efficient and modern. I therefore welcome the development of the proposal for an Action Plan for State Administration Reform, which is currently in the public debate and thus is available for comments from the rope and the general public that can take part in the final version of the development of the Action Plan. This also satisfies the principle of transparency, which I believe should be among the basic principles of the work of the state administration, as well as the process of passing legal or sublegal acts. As I could conclude, the essence of the proposal for an action plan is to create a functional analysis of the efficiency of jobs within the public administration system. An additional problem is, as you have recently presented yourself in public, the fact that the employee register does not provide complete, quality and reliable data, which means that we do not have basic database data. But without it or without producing a functional analysis that should contribute to reducing the number of jobs where necessary, eliminating dysfunctional or unnecessary jobs, as well as increasing the number of employees with certain qualifications and skills, a similar requirement for modernisation and operationality, will not be possible to implement reforms, as difficult as it is to reach basic facts. I faced this problem alone when we were doing reform within the justice system and reforming civil servants, that we found persons with a primary school. In this modern time, when we want to make progress towards the EU, I believe that persons without overqualification or additional qualifications, with such knowledge or training cannot meet the demand of modern time. In his exposé, the Prime Minister announced that an analysis of the number of employees, taking into account the measurement of the impact of employees, would be completed by November 2014, and that a decision on dynamics and implementation in each sector would be made afterwards. I don't think so, and we're not going to hold you by the deadline that this has to be completed by November 2014, I think it needs to be done as quickly as possible, but that, first of all, it needs to be done in a quality and satisfactory way. We expect to present to the public soon, as announced, a regulation on strategic and implementation development documents, the basis of a system of strategic planning and the process of defining public policies, which is within the jurisdiction of the Republic Secretariat for Public Policy. When we talk about the number of employees, the key problem is the number of employees in public enterprises. When it comes to the number of employees on the party line, it is mostly meant to be employed in public enterprises. According to official data, as I could find it, 510 public enterprises in RS last year dealt with a loss of 51 billion dinar and was 2.2 times the total net loss of the entire economy. The number of employees in public enterprises increased by 1,248 people compared to 2012 and now stands at 98,182 workers. Public business directors are still not set up by competition, especially when we talk about large systems. At the end of March this year, the deadline for public enterprises to agree their founding acts and statutes with the new Law on Public Enterprises, which was adopted in 2012, meant that so far it had to be concluded that the boards of directors were abolished and that the supervisory boards were set up, which is subject to much stricter rules. I'm not sure it's done anywhere. Every beginning is difficult, and to begin with, it takes recognition that we do not have a functional state administration that can meet the demands of a modern and modern state, as we tend to be, which can support further development of the business environment, as well as contribute to attracting foreign investment. All international financial organisations such as the IMF, the World Bank or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with which you recently had a meeting, in their programming documents, have a segment relating to the reform of the state administration and this fact says that without clear and meaningful reforms of the state administration there is not even a good business environment, but a favourable investment climate. Non-transparent work of civil servants with high discretionary powers favours creating corruption. But also an unsatisfactory standard of civil servants can lead to corrupt phenomena. I believe that the proposed amendments to the Law on civil servants contribute to the creation of an environment for the improvement of the service system, as stated in the reasoning of the Law proposal, especially in the process of selecting candidates for the establishment of working relationships. I have to state and worry that I'm not sure that it's a good thing that the procedure, again as stated in the reasoning of the bill, is simplifying and shortening. When we talk about the law on civil servants, which is one of the most important laws governing the position and authority of civil servants, we must stress the fact that it was adopted in 2005. Since then, with today's proposal, it's been changed and I've completed seven times. Most of the amendments and additions concerned the postponement of the law on how to appoint assistants and secretaries in ministries. Almost every new assembly of parliament, before the government's election, had on the agenda a postponement of the Law on Civil Servants, which allowed the establishment of persons without competition. So far, we don't see that practice changing, I'm not saying it won't, but it hasn't been done yet. The previous government meeting did not respect the Law on civil servants by which assistants and secretaries of the ministries, directors of the administration must be hired on the basis of the competition. Instead, the government placed officials in a position based on the controversial article 179, which was a transitional provision of the law and ceased to apply in 2010. According to data relating to the period from May 2012 to March 2014, the government has placed a total of 161 employees in positions, of which 159 were employed without competition. In 2011, 2012 and the first months of 2013 only 69 competitions were launched. Therefore, responsibility for the state of the state of administration, especially as regards the status of civil servants, has been borne by all previous governments since 2000 until today. The declared principle of departementisation and depoliticisation has not yet been met, and it is necessary. Unless a system of career progress and employment is created in Serbia based on professional quality and knowledge, it is difficult for us to respond to the task ahead of our country, both with regard to the reform of the state administration to represent the service of citizens and with regard to further European integration. It should also be noted that Serbia is among 144 countries, according to the latest report recently published, the other day, the World Economic Forum for 2014/15. A 94th year of competitiveness in the Council, which is progress for seven positions compared to last year, but this is not an enviable place, given that Serbia is in a worse position than most countries in the environment, as Montenegro is 67th, Croatia is 77th, Bulgaria 54th, Romania 59rd and Macedonia 63rd. I cannot look back on the number of employees in local self-government, which is completely inadequate and exceeds the required number, and on the other hand, the structure of employees cannot meet the needs of citizens. There are also municipalities in Serbia whose budget cannot cover only employees' salaries without talking about other development programmes that need to exist. Therefore, we are also coming to the proposal that we made during the debate on the government's choice, that we also need to talk about changing the electoral system. In the end, Serbia has an obligation, according to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, to allow citizens to decide what is best for their municipality, and on the other hand there must be a higher level of responsibility and local leaders. Today it is on the agenda to amend the Law on civil servants' salaries, as well as public sector employees. The method of determining salary in the public administration system is, as far as I can tell, incomprehensible and unacceptable. I therefore welcome and support the conclusion of the Council for Public Administration Reform, which reads – public administration wage reform will be implemented in a transparent and fair manner with unique, clear, general criteria of evaluation, primarily the harmonisation of wages for related occupations. The adoption of a payment-class law, also announced in the prime minister's exhibition, should be one of the first steps to introduce order. Today, it is also on the agenda to amend the Law on State Administration, which refers to the fact that the county's chiefs are no longer appointed by the government, but are being placed on the basis of a public competition. I hope it won't be a prelude to stopping the work of the current district chiefs. Finally, I want to point out that public administration reform is dependent on political will. If the political will of determination exists, it will happen. Any constructive proposal in that direction will support the NDS parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8487	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8488	I thank the president. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, are before us four laws on state administration which, in my opinion, are a necessary step in the functioning of the state administration. I sincerely believe that the Strategy on State Administration Reform, whose debate is under way, is taking this functional analysis and the essential steps in reforming the state administration that is needed and that I think the conditions have not only been met with political will, but also with a simple programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that can no longer be postponed and whose realisation is expected. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, I think it defines in a very clear way the procedure for selecting civil servants through competitions, that this bill in some way avoids any indetermination and transitional provisions of the previous law that governed this area. In my opinion and the opinion of my fellow MPs from the NS Group he has some six very important characteristics which I will say very briefly at this point. A provision of Article 67a. predicts that the performer may be appointed without an internal or public competition until the appointment of a civil servant to a specific position for a maximum period of nine months, but with a maximum period of six months. We have been given here, as parliamentary groups, proposals and suggestions and transparency of Serbia, which consider this deadline to be a debt. Our opinion is that at this point, the most important thing is that this is a positive shift in relation to the current law, that the procedure for selecting a civil servant to a specific position is very transparent and that this law defines very clear conditions also in terms of the professional arrangements that state officials must meet in matters called advisers, younger, older and even civil servants in place. It is a very important provision of Article 78 of this Law, which makes it clear that the Protector of Citizens must give his opinion in some way to resolve the position of a civil servant. I think it strengthens the influence of this independent body, which is also the aim of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to have independent regulatory bodies do their jobs and have recommendations and opinions that apply and adopt. The learning process is permanent and should never be stopped and it is logical for a civil servant to apply to the same maximum. Article 97b. here is a very clear way of projecting and funding in the area. The transitional provision in Article 33 takes into account the overall situation in our budget and stipulates that this amount of 0.01% of the total funds will be implemented in 2015 by setting 70 % of the amount in the budget, and that the required percentage of 10% will be increased each year to reach the law of the projected funding level. In my opinion, the sixth, very important provision of this bill and one important step forward, I would say, is the possibility of passing a special expert examination for employment in special duties and powers. In my opinion, this is very important because of the continued professionalization of the state administration. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies and the Bill on Supplements to the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services and my previous colleagues, these two draft laws are necessary for the sake of harmonising past work with the Labour Act. Under these proposals, a practically complete public sector will be covered by this law. The exception is the employees of public enterprises. With these two draft laws, virtually all employees in the Republic of Serbia will be in the same position when it comes to the right to past work and certain members of this law are given specific precisions in order not to misread the law. Thus, Article 23 provides for the Law on salaries of civil servants, that a civil servant has the right to supplement on the basis of the past work of the State as an employer, regardless of how many different public authorities have previously been employed. This is a perfectly logical solution, because someone can work in several different state bodies during their working days, but essentially its employer is all the time state, so that a different solution would not be fair and would have led to discrimination in the exercise of the right to past work. The idea of equating the working legal status of all employees in the Republic of Serbia regardless of whether they are employed in the public or private sector is based on the amendment of Article 5. Law on wages in public authorities and public services. The proposed amendment in this way will no one be brought into a subordinate position, and in particular, in the proposal for this law, I am not clear to the end of one formulation. I've spoken to my colleagues about it, and I'd like you to clarify it for me, and it concerns companies that were founded by the same level of government. I need your interpretation, actually, what it means in practice if a doctor who worked, say, at a health center whose founder is local self-government moves to work in the same city, like Nis, at a clinical center. So, what's the situation about his past work, given that he doesn't change his profession, but that he's going from a local level to an institution that's a republican level? As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, for the first time an opportunity is introduced for the Director, i.e. the Deputy Director of a Special Organization may also be a lecturer at a higher education institution. It's exactly prescribed that these are ten institutions. But I think this provision of the law is very important because people are motivated to accept a responsible task of managing these institutions and, of course, by improving the overall efficiency of their work. It is very important that at the head of all institutions, institutions are people who will be able to raise their function to a higher level with their knowledge, expertise and professional and ethical qualities. The provision of the law relating to the district chiefs is also very important in my opinion and needs to change the situation so that the head of the district is no longer a civil servant but a official. I think it's more in his nature and job description. I would only comment on a provision that is new and which prescribes that the conduct of administrative proceedings, as well as the decision on the rights and obligations of natural and legal persons, can be entrusted to a civil servant who does not have a degree in law. I hope the Proposer has taken all the good and bad sides of this solution well. However, I am of the opinion that a high level of expertise is necessary and therefore I think it is very important and a proposal that in such situations a special law will put more demanding conditions for professional qualifications in front of civil servants. The NS parliamentary group will support all four draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8489	Thank you. Before I give my word to Ambassador Petronivic, let us just extend the session, according to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure, of course, and the Assembly. I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need to bring the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8490	President-in-Office, respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, honourable Members of Parliament, I will begin by saying that I will support the entire package of these proposed laws, to support the amendments to the Law on State Employees, the Law on Salary of State Employees, the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services and the Law on State Administration. So, we will support the proposed amendments and, of course, in the voting day, vote for those laws. What I want to point out at the outset, which is that in addition to these concrete solutions, which are proposed by these laws, which we will support, I want to stress that we will give even stronger support to what is next. I fully agree with one of your sentences, that these are not fundamental changes, but that it is an important step towards fundamental changes in this area, and I want to express my full support for the vision of it, full support for what you want to do, and the way you've put it here to do it. I know it's hard, hard work. I know it's a lasting process, but I also know that this government is committed to reform and committed to reform in this area. So it is an initial step towards fundamental changes, towards deeper reforms, I hope not only of state administrations but of public administrations in general. I'd just like to briefly refer to the draft law on civil servants and tenants. Before that, I'd say, and again, even stronger support for what's next. Why? The reform of the state administration is an essential condition for the success of reforms in Serbia in any area, as those in the state administration are those in charge of implementing the reform through regular activities. So, there is no successful reform in any area, the government has been defined for such a thing and has full support for it, but the government is also defined and has the support that public administration reform in general must be implemented, because it is a condition that all these others can be implemented. Of course, when I say so, I also have in mind our commitment to join the EU, and one of the important criteria is to strengthen administrative capacity, i.e. to create a state administration that is efficient, effective, that it can do all the jobs in the interests of citizens, in the interest of the economy. So, as a sort of, let me put it this way, in the service of the people. But it's not just important for us to strengthen that part for the EU, but for Serbia, for us, because that's what we need to do here, we need to enforce the laws here, we need to create conditions for a better life for citizens. When it comes to the Civil Service Act, I will only briefly look back and give support to that part of the Law that creates assumptions for more effective protection of labour rights, legal certainty in the exercise of rights for all civil servants. We will also give support to the part of the Law in which compliance is carried out with the Law on Higher Education, when it comes to calling civil servants and civil servants in place. Also, that part of the Law, which in a more modern, more transparent, more efficient way advertises public competition, is more efficient in implementing the electoral procedure, in one way enables the state authority to place the public official in a position in full capacity and, of course, the part that speaks of the responsibility of civil servants in a position, by wanting to point out two things there. First, that responsibility is heightened. You should. What do I find important? I think it's important that a new category is introduced. The responsibility of a civil servant in a position that is not assessed, and such conditions have been created in that state body, disturbed relations, etc., and he must be responsible for such a thing. That's one newspaper. When it comes to tightening based on evaluation, one assessment is sufficient – unsatisfactory, to be resolved. I have to say, I agree with that. I don't care if she's unsatisfactory once. As soon as it fails, it doesn't have to work. Here is something else, which I think should pay attention to – how to avoid abuse in evaluation. The government has some criteria about it. I think we should take another look at them, too. Why? To get to some quality standards, some criteria that will rule out any possibility of subjective assessment. In this case, there is a real significance of this assessment – dissatisfaction, which is a condition for a civil servant to be resolved in a position. What I also want to point out, I even consider the most important part of the amendments to the Law on Civil Servants, and also the greatest step towards essential reforms in this area – the establishment of a new system of professional training. I think it's the most significant change and the biggest step towards public administration reform in general. Therefore, there is an obligation to improve civil servants, to further improve and constantly learn, to acquire new knowledge, to do their job more effectively. The current way of general and specific programmes is maintained, but there is an additional, in one, of course, more orderly way, such as a special form of professional training through internships, the possibility of a special expert examination, a uniform way of training trainees, i.e. standardisation of one process, based on experiences, etc. Why do I want to especially highlight this area? Because, given those main principles of public administration reform, decentralisation, depoliticalisation, rationalisation, professionalisation, is one of the important professionalizations. What is predicted here is the application of the principle of professionalization in practice, and it means actually well-trained, responsible and effective administration. It is not without the training of civil servants throughout their work and must apply to everything and must be a lasting process. That's where we give strong support to this part of the Civil Service Act. We consider it a significant and greatest step towards public administration reform. What I want to point out is one question - who do these changes refer to when it comes to civil servants and tenants? In view of a small number of civil servants under the Civil Service Act, those who work in the state administration, some over 30,000, but therefore employees in the province, cities, municipalities may have twice as many. In public services, public institutions the most, not counting public enterprises, if we refuse to do so, which also needs to be reformed, it's about half a million people. We consider them because different equal statuses are both in the state administration and in autonomy and in units of local self-government and in public agencies, etc., public institutions. We believe that this situation is not acceptable from the point of view of the need to systematically regulate the functioning of the public administration. We just want to support your announcement to fully regulate the public administration system in general, not just the state administration. When I say this, I would like to stress in particular that we are not making mistakes like they were made, but that this is based on a very precise analysis, one functional analysis of the entire public administration, and only on the basis of the fact that solutions are offered. It is an opportunity to come up with all possible solutions that will allow for a better and more efficient administration. We had examples of the rationalization of public administration by saying – 10% linearly to everyone. What happens? Some organs that do not need to operate remain, some who are with a large number of people still stay with a large one, some authorities that have received new powers do not have enough etc. Instead of reducing, there is a later increase in the number of employees. So we think that this has to be one precise, detailed analysis, a functional analysis of the entire public administration, on which all these next steps will be based, the next steps that we are talking about. It is also an opportunity to show by a very clear picture in Serbia who the civil servants are, that they are valuable people who do their job. It's not a expense. The doctor's not a expense. It's not an education worker's expense. It's a man who's worth doing his job and for whom he's supposed to receive a profit and whose profits are extremely low. What's the problem of public administration, it's double jobs, long procedures, complicated procedures and a lack of one essential, deeper analysis of what we need and where we need, when it comes to civil servant, what his job is, what his goal is, how to motivate him, how to organize professional training, to do it the best way. That's why I also want this which way I insist on supporting you to insist on a very detailed, functional analysis of the entire public administration. I wouldn't exempt it, on the contrary, from including those who don't fall under this law, which, for example, are officials. And for them, it should be introduced. First, to determine who's in office in this country. There should be rules for them as well as for everyone else, and they should be included. What I'm trying to say is, when it comes to supplementing the State Administration Act, I want to point out one thing with what you've already explained, which is one possibility for the directors, i.e. deputies to be appointed to special organisations, which are teachers at higher education institutions. I find that very important. Why? Special organizations are professional, professional companies, so to speak, who do everything. To allow the most professional in the area to be at their head, and to have the opportunity to deal with teaching, I think it's a good move in the right direction and, ultimately, in connection with science and work, which is already at stake. In the end, let me just say briefly, when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on wages in state authorities and public services and the salaries of civil servants and deputies, again with one message and one support that I'm talking about all the time. Amendments to the law are, in fact, adjustments, alignment with the Labour Act. Like everywhere, there are also in Serbia, that all employees have public administration in general, therefore, both civil servants and tenants, but at the same time also state authorities and public services. We, of course, support it. What do I want to point out? I think what's ahead of you, and you've announced it, is the reform of the profit system in the entire public sector. In addition to large expenditures in the public administration, it is not only due to inadequate numbers and structures, but also to inadequate systems and rewards. There's a lot of irregularities, a lot of injustices, a lot of illogicality, a lot of discrepancies. So, if I don't stick to the details too much, I think it's very important that this is done in one appropriate, systemically manner, to apply to the entire administration, that both the basic earnings and the coefficients, which are part of the profits, be transparent, be comparable, be clear, lead to those who work on the same or similar jobs having the same and receipts. In doing so, I'm not talking about the "requiring," but I'm thinking about how to compare it. We have only one situation that in Serbia some say has 600, some say, even Minister Krstic spoke 900 coefficients. We have a basis, I have here a dozen, one in court, one in the state administration, one in public services, and even in the state administrations of different bases, etc. We have one law that was passed in 2001, the Law of Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, but from which only a piece of the law was left after this time. He arranged for a good system, starting with who the functioners are, and what their place on that scale was, he arranged for a way to establish a system of earnings. In time, it was running away from it, it was dissipated, once by judges and prosecutors, the second time, the third time we now have one absurd situation, at least for me it was absurd, that the president of the Republic was first in the law. Now he's on the 201. It doesn't make sense. It's not even a thousand. We do not consider it logical that the head of the Chamber of National Assembly has a higher salary than the president of the National Assembly. That doesn't make any sense to me. I don't want to list a whole series of these details, these illogical things, unfair things. The law should come under attack, so to speak, reforms, to bring order into that area. Please, no higher wages are required, everything has to be in line with the economic possibilities of the country, but it has to be fairer. That salary determines, as I would say, the place for that official in this country, because we usually say – you know, wages are paid in terms of the complexity of the job. Now as my colleague told me, the president's salary is not even among a thousand. Turns out a thousand of them are doing a more important job. I'm not questioning it, nor do I think it should be settled, nor do I think it's strict. There are occupations that must be paid. There are experts who have to pay for it, but it's not all like that. Not to be too long, we will give full support to your announcement that the system of income is fully regulated in a unique way in the entire public administration. In the end, I will repeat what I said at the beginning, we will give full support to the proposed laws, and in the voting day we will vote on these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8491	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8492	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow ministers, today here, as we have heard from previous speakers, we have four laws on state administration that regulate certain segments that have been regulated in a different way or have not been regulated at all, but in accordance with this government's policy, again a lot of noise about nothing. You bring us four laws in the Assembly that change the status, nature, color, smell and taste of the district chief and another thing is past work. Now we need to kill ourselves here, figuratively speaking, in praising something that you've explained so well and confirmed my thesis that this government is brilliant, that around a cartoon in our social life, it makes huge elephants that once draw with chalk and sometimes with water crayons, how-when. In this case, water crayons. That's what you guys do all the time. Just like when someone says, say, the Honorable Minister of Lonchar, we're going to change now, take a man's breath, some little thing. Do you, Mrs. Udovici, know what this is a small segment of the entire change of our country's strategy? Real small segment, if you can say it, since it looks like pleonasm to me. So, you're calling the National Assembly, you're making tensions amongst the public about something that's going to happen, and what's to happen here, most respected colleagues explain how important government is. Imagine that. Of course it's the state administration, so there's no state without it. What did we get from these laws? We got that, say, the amount of severance is determined by the government's regulation. This puts him in an unfavourable position as a private sector employee in the state administration, and nobody cares, because my God, until he gets to the Constitutional Court, who knows what he's going to be, and that's going to be some other government, etc. We're usually a European record player in the number of regulations broken by the Constitutional Court, whatever it is. The Law on civil servants, article 39, says – we suggest that the length of a younger advisor's job needs be reduced from five to three years. It turns out that longer experience is needed for a younger counselor than for a counselor. That's another illogicality I don't understand, which we're going to try to solve with amendments. You say in Article 67. – until the end of the public competition. Knowing this government, Mrs. Udovici, this government is able to end the public competition forever, absolutely. She's shown that in the past two years. There's no end to public competition. You're in charge of the state administration. Do you know how many ministries today have no assistant ministers and secretary of state? That's scandalous. Do you know we don't have a security coordinator? Do you know we don't have VOO and VBA bosses? We don't. What do we need it for? Do you know that we are the only state in Europe that has no intelligence segment? Does anyone care that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence doesn't have the assistant ministers, we don't have the secretary of state? Who cares? You know why? Because there's one man asking for everything. You're a representative of an important government segment that's in absolute paralysis if that man, and I know he doesn't, say, fall asleep. Since he's not doing it, it's impossible for now, but he's a man of flesh and blood. You represent it here. You're an expert woman. It's undeniable. We voted for you all the way from Bodrum. That's what you remember. You're a descendant of a great family. I'm saying this without a shred of irony. Lazarus Widowsky was a great man. I don't know what he'd say if he saw you in this government. I don't think he'd be happy, but that's my opinion. Don't take this personally. This is an observation in respect of him. What I'm trying to say to you, district chiefs, ladies and gentlemen, is that they become officials in a country where we already have a bunch of officials. Every ambassador of the Republic of Serbia is a functionary and we are to blame. I mean the previous, previous, previous government, since this is the third same power. The functioner you love, and why? Which section of the district chief's work will be political? That's what you tell me. What is political coordination, say, inspection services in the county? Why does this man become a functioner, not a civil servant or an official? Why is it necessary to take a step backwards, instead of choosing them in the competition, as the EU suggests, which you often call for, not personally, but also gentlemen from the majority, and then by the Government? How are we going to do the grading? What is the difference in this assessment of civil servants compared to what was before? Not at all. The assessment "does not satisfy" existed before, but the problem is that no one has ever used it. Believe it or not. When the court uses them to get them back to work. What do we do now? The head of the service says - the one there is yellow, let me write him “not satisfied. ” Is that possible? Yes, it is. Is that gonna happen? It will. So what do we do? Do you know what “not satisfying ” means? I'll imagine two government workers, both advances. He doesn't like this one because it's for Tom, and this one's for Vukic or this one's for Nebojsa Stefanovic, so now he says to him - now I'm going to write him that he's not "satisfactory". (Wolceta Toskovic, from the site: Do not mention SNS. I'm saying it hypothetically, as an example. Don't be mad. I have no intention of fighting. That leaves room for a lot of abuse, because that's not exactly stated. The evaluation criteria remain commonplaces and legal standards continue to be mentioned in the words "awareness" and are still mentioned in the words "if it violates the reputation of the institution". What does “if you order the reputation of an institution ” mean? Let's say, in the Serbian Parliament, I regularly violate the reputation of the institution when I mention the name of an honorable, half-prime minister, so they want to punish me for it. I remember the name. Do you understand? That leaves a wide range of space for abuse. I don't like it. I'd like that to be precise, and it seems to me it's still not accurate, and I'm sure you understand what I'm trying to say right now, even though my speech is colored by politics, because I'm a politician. You're a politician. You're in the SNS government. You're not a member of the SNS. You are an expert, as well as Mr Vujovic, as well as Mr Tasovac, Minister Verbic. They all like to say, "We don't let the power go, we just build power lines." You're all part of the same team. Don't think it saves you somehow because you don't have contact with any other harmful policy in another segment. That's my opinion and my party's opinion. I don't understand why you're doing this with the county chiefs. It's unclear how this, except in a section that limits public competition to end in nine months. That's what I support. I just need to remind you that this is already a few in a series of similar provisions that are being adopted in this assembly, and that it cannot be applied. I absolutely don't give up on our previous, pre-last, pre-government, but I also have to tell you what it is that provides you with confidence, and so do we, this time it's really going to happen. So, when we know that this majority here, the Honorable Minister, has passed the Law on Public Enterprises, which is not applicable. It's still party personnel who run the company. You're also Minister of State and Local Self-Government. You also know well that, let's say in a county, you're now going to put the head of the district by the government on a certain deadline, I think it's four years if I'm not mistaken, so for example take Majdanpek. And in Majdanpek, within your jurisdiction yesterday, eight parties on the municipal electoral commission say – we are asking to reprint the ballots because they are printed in a private printing press where the owner of the SNS seems to be. People are looking for, all but SNS to reprint the ballots in the "Official Messenger" printer. Eleven out of 18. What will you do as Minister on this matter? Will you help put things back into the legal framework? Do you know what they do there in Majdanpek? Do you know that they organize checks, that they make things that are against the law. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: Is this the topic of the agenda? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8493	Mr. Stefanovic, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8494	Allow me, Mr. Chairman, I'm grateful for the intervention, because I've just become aware that I'm off topic. I have to say that these laws change things for the better, but I think it could have been a lot more, and I think in the end it all comes down, unfortunately, to the district chief's question and the question of past work, where you put people from local self-government, the state administration in the position of what the law calls related enterprises. So you try to even them with the Labour Act on one hand, and in some other elements you still distinguish them from the Labour Act that most of us here have adopted, and we think that law is terribly bad. So I'm curious about what it's going to mean in practice. Will this mean that you have proposed criteria for advisors, senior advisors, etc., within these legal proposals, where it does not say anywhere that anyone who competes must know English and must know how to work on a computer. Why doesn't it say so? We predicted it in the amendment. I know you agree with me that in the 21st century, within the framework of the European integration of Serbia, there must be this criterion. Absolutely has to, according to us. Why doesn't he write and what's wrong with the opposition's proposal? I don't think it's anything. But on the other hand, I understand when the foreign minister doesn't speak English to us, when the president of the state doesn't speak English, when a bunch of other officials don't tell us, so what would the one in the state administration do? Well, you see, that's how the capillaries of one system go down, any one. You lead, i.e. You are competent to be correct for one segment of our country which is of great importance, because it is the foundation of every state administration. Absolutely, with course teachers and teachers. If you don't have that, and if you don't have a tax collector, and we don't, we have a fourth one in a year or two, we have a fourth economy minister. I hope he doesn't walk you again. (Alexander Markovic, from the scene: What does it matter? It's got everything to do with it. I think you should really try to change things deeper, to specify the criteria for the situation when someone needs to be out of service. To be more specific, to be aware, that the person who assesses someone is his colleague who most often sits with him in the same office. You think he's going to say unsatisfactory. Well, there's no way that's gonna happen, unless it's yellow, then it will, say. I don't want to, but I heard it's happening. So I'm interested in why you didn't do it deeper and more precisely? Why didn't you throw out that unnecessary standardisation of expressions? Why have you inserted “infringing the reputation of the institution”? What does it mean to break your reputation? Why have you inserted “one’s work is harmful by work”? What does it mean, someone's work is harmful? That's what I'm trying to explain. It can be determined precisely. It can be said – he didn't come to work so much and so much, he didn't do what he had to do, he didn't carry out his work assignments, specifically what work assignments, in which number. We have to, because otherwise arbitration will rule this country in which, unfortunately, it rules in all segments. Honestly, I expected a lot more. This is a thing that's just scratched something. I repeat, when everything gets off the table, it seems to me that unfortunately everything comes down to those unfortunate county chiefs and comes down to past work. This remains inaccurate. It stays truly unspoken and I can't be here as some other colleagues I respect, to stand up and talk about the importance of the state administration. We're not on course. We know that the state administration is important, we know that a lot of bad things have been done before or haven't been done at all. (Wolceta Toskovic, from the place: Why didn't you? To avoid a discussion, I don’t want to argue with anyone, especially a respected colleague. I'm thinking of you in the last bench. But really give us some precise answer if you can, why and to what extent these things are not solved, for what? Is it possible to correct it, is it possible that we, through the amendment process, help to specify them? Do you have the political powers to accept the DS amendments that really seem to me on the line to improve this text? I repeat, in our opinion, these are the biggest regrets, public officials putting themselves in a very strange position. They put themselves in a position where their position doesn't change in many ways, and I mean those who don't work. Those who work are not sufficiently isolated and will not be evaluated precisely enough. That way they won't be rewarded. It's back to being a regular. There's no breaking of the spell in the state administration, Your Honor, if you don't exactly write what's what. I know that, I've worked for a long time in the state administration, and I know what a grade means - unsatisfactory, for a colleague. It doesn't happen, I sign, it doesn't happen. It's too wide. That's exactly what you need to determine. What's the district chief gonna do? What will the Serbian government official do? Will the officials soon be directors of the kindergarten? Do you know what "functioner" means? Chief of the county, what powers have been increased? What's he gonna do exactly? Politically, the official is someone who is a political official. What does "functioner" mean? The prime minister banned the cars anyway. What's that for? To coordinate the work of inspection services, for example? What's politics about? Suspicion wakes up that provision. Maybe it's a policy for some companies to comb themselves because they're politically inappropriate. Maybe that's why he's a functionist. We wouldn't like that. Please let us go back to what we started with a difficult pain in the reform of a state administration that has never been implemented, to open the matter to the citizens of Serbia and that people can compete without political influence. Let's try that, please. Once again, the government's taking dysgines. Now they're going to determine who's there, as I'd like to call, some better-looking local authority that has no clear authority, but it's going to be a function. What's stronger about who's stronger? What's that for? This provision for me is very problematic. It's a vague background and a political one, especially an expert one. Please explain to me the connection between being a functioner and running a district. You're in charge of the allegations, because in Serbia, no one is leading it, because unfortunately, as you know, local self-government is in a terrible situation. All the powers have been conferred, or transferred. He doesn't have anything original, why does he deserve to be a functionary, why does he deserve to be the same as the esteemed Mr. Becic, who is a functioner as vice president of the Assembly, by me? I don't see the connection. Mr. Becic, you need to worry, you may be head of the county tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8495	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8496	I would take this opportunity to answer a little bit of the question that the MP has repeatedly asked and which is worth a little bit closer to the explanation, as regards the head of the administrative districts. Before that, I would just like to point out that all the other questions or comments you've made are mainly about stating that this is not a particularly significant set of laws. No one said it was terribly significant but it was very important for Serbian citizens to know that the Labour Act and the key changes in it would apply immediately to public administration employees as well as to everyone else in the country. Accordingly, the government has also adopted several amendments to the regulations that this harmonisation has also implemented. As far as the other amendments, or your comments, are concerned, that is exactly what all the other MPs have been talking about so far, what the Action Plan is talking about, the draft Public Administration Reform Action Plan, which is on our website and which you can consult. Serious and profound changes in the system are being prepared and for the first time I must say that this is how serious approach and preparation and will that the state, or public administration in Serbia, has not happened, I have wanted to say, since Yugoslavia has ceased to exist. So, in this context, to go back to the question of the chief of directors of the districts, it's a function that's not defined enough in the system. It's a function that has official aspects and has, we say, political aspects. The main political aspect is that the President of the Management District Council is the head of the management district. His name is not reflected in the fact that he is actually and in some way must be an authority for, in fact, the politically elected persons, because in the Board of the Management District the presidents of the municipalities and mayors of the cities sit. The fact is that this function so far as it's done, it hasn't been revived, it hasn't given any special results. It doesn't show, so to speak, the power and the necessary authority for the changes we want to bring in the next period. It is our intention, it is now happening outside this package of laws, in preparation and going to the debate of the Inspectorate Control Act, which will change at all very radically and very fundamentally the way in which inspection supervision is done in the country and the seriousness with which we will approach it. Administrative supervision will also need to be strengthened and used for a more coordinated and authoritative implementation of administrative inspections at all levels of government. We think it's worth a try. It is 29 officials, in the future, if it is adopted in this law as part of these amendments, or 29 officials from whom 20 have not been elected to the competition so far. So, which has never really functioned as professional officials before, and because it is difficult to determine which competences they are and how they should do it completely abstractally and officially when it comes to co-ordination of two levels of government. Therefore, we believe that it is worth bringing this change now in time, that as part of the preparation and when it comes to carrying out inspection surveillance, and when it comes to strengthening the state service system, and when it comes to regulating the level of government and country, we see if we can get a more effective environmental level and further deeper reforms are yet to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8497	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. The word has the deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8498	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't understand why Mr. Stefanovic, to this extent, is overly burdened with Alexander Vukić, in that overload, is a whole series of nonsense and untruth, and when asked by Minister Udovici, I mean very incorrect personal insults. I don't know, Mr. Becic, if one day you're going to be head of the management district, but since you're a master of economic science, and what is the situation in the DS, you may soon be a bankruptcy manager in that party. It is really hard to count all the words that are extremely inappropriate to say in parliament. So, the crowd, the team, then allegedly Mrs. Udovicski should be ashamed to sit in this government, and I guess Mr. Stefanovic is too proud or his parents are too proud or his relatives that he is the head of the DS parliamentary group that has ruined everything that has reached this country, including the state administration. In these two minutes, I'm just going to make a few senses, or I'm going to look back at a few nonsense things that we've been talking about here. Mr. Stefanovic, you've performed here as someone who's an expert on state administration. You know, I've worked at the state administration for years and now, what is this, what are these papers, what are these laws? Tell me, by what criteria have you been admitted to the state administration? How old are you guys at law school? What is it that recommended that you work in the state administration, except that the party in which you were now in power? So, no other criteria. You're here salting your mind and why the law says this, and why it says that. What the SNS asks you – who has passed all these laws that it has annulled or the Constitutional Court or which have fallen before the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, etc.?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8499	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8500	Who prevented you, Mr. Stefanovic, from entering the State Administration Act that a civil servant must know English, computer work, etc. You remembered all that when you barely crossed the censorship in March 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8501	I thank Mr. Martinovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8502	Mr President, two members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured, Article 107 and Article 106. Article 107 says the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and Mr Stefanovic, we had the opportunity to hear it all, it did not. At one point, however, he himself said that he did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly and that he was jeopardizing the reputation of the National Assembly and how he does it every day. I know he does it. However, Mr. Chairman, you should have warned him, to warn him that he consciously does so and to do so every day. However, a member of 106 who says the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda under investigation has been injured. Mr Stefanovic also talked about some imaginary, fictional conflicts, divisions, Vucics, and Tomini, among other things. Mr. Stefanovic, there is no division in SNS, absolutely no division, and don't impose your auto-projection on us here. The fact that you in your party have divisions, clans, currents, conflicts, no one can even measure how many there are, that's still your thing, and I don't think you should bother the National Assembly with that. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8503	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. You had a chance to see that I warned Mr. Stefanovic. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8504	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, you couldn't punish me with a single word I didn't insult anyone. Dear Minister Widowsky has all my respects, I'm never anywhere, you can check that in a stenogram I didn't say she should be ashamed of something, please. So that's very important to me. By the way, you just gave a colleague of the Witch that he's using the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure to replicate my smallness. I'd ask him to, and you ask him to continue buying councillors around the Sorceress he can do better than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8505	Mr. Stefanovic, please respect your dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8506	What's the point, and I'm glad the minister answered me, to get back to it, and also because of the MPs who have doubts, so I was admitted to a public competition, without any political ones, then I wasn't a member of the Democratic Party, I've been admitted, I have to, since it's been asked... (Wolceta Toskovic, from the scene: at how old? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8507	Mr. Toskovic, please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8508	So, we've received 28 out of 1,500 candidates. I graduated 28 years of law school in Novi Sad for what I'm proud of. So, absolutely we knew, not us, but that power after 2000, knew how to compete where university professors graded candidates. No, people from parties like today, professors of the university, like the late Vojin Dimitrijevic and everything. But what's the essence of the misunderstandings over the county chief and I end up with, in fact, 23 seconds longer than two minutes, is that the county's chiefs have no original powers, the original authority is what gives political power or how well you've noticed within the council. It is true that he will talk and have to influence the people who have been elected, but give them the original authority on the basis of which he will have that power. I agree with you that you need strength, but through these changes you don't give him that original power, that's the problem. You just say who he chooses, whom he sets, nothing else. You need to give him what this man is going to do, so that people who are elected, say, in those municipalities, can see him as an authority. That's my opinion, and I think you should have taken some of their powers away from them and given them to him. That's how you'd strengthen the chief. Not like this, because he's not chosen and he can't be a functioner.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8509	Time's up, Mr. Stefanovic. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, deputy head of the parliamentary group, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8510	It's not clear to me, I may not be a man of some great mind, but I don't understand how everything's going well with a public competition where someone who says publicly in the National Assembly that he finished law school when he was 28, and there were another thousand and some candidates who ended up probably before him. What did it recommend that you be admitted to state service when you graduated from law school when you were 28? I was a professor of legal science when I was 27, and now you're telling me that everything was fine, that there were no political setups, etc. Mr. Stefanovic, you don't know what the administrative district is first. So, the administrative district is part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia for which the regional bodies are educated. The head of the management district should be the official appointed by the government, because it co-ordinates the work of the regional organisational units of the state authorities for the territory of the administrative district. What the government has now proposed, where luck had been done before, would have been more order in administrative areas, would have been more order at the level of local self-government. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the bill because such solutions exist in parallel practice. Tell me, what are the Prefects in France if they're not government officials? You have as many examples as you want in European countries. You were talking here about how apparently there are some yellow ones out there, I guess you mean members of your party exposed to political persecution. Here, now I'm asking you -- why don't you give me the names of those yellow ones that this government of the Republic of Serbia fired just because they're members of the DS? Where? Who? What state body were these people working in? What public enterprise? Tell me the name and last name of the man who lost his job just because he's a member of the DS?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8511	Mr. Martinovic, your time is up. The Republic has, to mention in a negative context, MP Aleksandar Markovic. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: A man is said to buy councilmen at Vrakar. ) Mr. Stefanovic, you mentioned the speaker, you mentioned a colleague from Vračar, you mentioned that he was buying councilmen and I think he deserves a replica, if you think I won't give a replica. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8512	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am now in doubt whether to use the possibility of replication or to advertise the violation of Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure, but I will still use the right to reply. Mr. Stefanovic, since you have used a lie very irresponsiblely and completely inappropriately, and have tried to lead into the context of the purchase of the board, which is usually yours, I must tell you that in this way you have joined Mr. Kuzmanovic, the president of Vračar Municipality, who continues with such flat-rate evaluations, and finally these events will be given by the Prosecutor's Office, the competent authorities. But there's no need for any shopping. The DS members' board is running away from you, running from irresponsible politics, running away from a policy that has led Serbia to ruin. The other day, DS was on Vracar, you mentioned Vračar, and the other day, DS was left without another councilman. He hasn't gone to any party, he's become an independent councilman, but that says there's no need for anyone to buy anyone, running away from you because they know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8513	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, to mention the name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8514	Mr. Chairman, it is not possible for the district chief to be a functioner and to decide in the first degree. You understand, it's not working. He's being appointed by the government, and he decides in the first degree. Please, he's inspecting. It can't stay like you predicted, Article 38. That's what this is about. That's one of the problems with these laws that we're trying to point out without wanting to argue with most of us here because I don't think there's a reason for that. They're very specific questions. Maybe we're ignorant. We may not understand the concept of the strategy of development and change and reform of the state administration. We may not understand anything, but there's a minister to answer and she seems to have done it before, and I'm grateful for that. I'm trying to get an answer here on how we're going to even it up somehow. Yes, I graduated from 28 but, dear colleague, I need to know that I had a small interval because of their two-war government that I participated in. Let's do some math. I think that would be fair, Mr. Becic, if you nodded with your head knowing your patriotic feelings. Don't take that away from me like...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8515	Mr. Stefanovic, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8516	I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8517	Mr. Martinovic, you have no right to a replica. Do any of the other authorities want a word? You can do it by your book.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 106th or the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. It is possible that Mr Stefanovic participated in some liberating wars, and I would like to know which and what wars did he participate in and which caused the SNS? Come on, I'll put that fun part of his exposure aside. What's false, and that's also a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, when you're criticizing the bill, then you can't tell the truth. Where does it say that the head of the county of management is being supervised? So, where does it say that the head of the county of management is being supervised?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8519	Mr. Martinovic, you're abused by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8520	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8521	The word has a folk letter, master of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8522	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I'm advertising Article 103. The rules of procedure, given that Mr. Martinovic has just incorrectly called on Article 106. The Rules of Procedure claim that the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, however, Article 106 does not speak about it, but says that the speaker must speak of a point on the agenda. He was probably referring to article 107. Its right is that after so many years in the Assembly during which the changing parties say the same thing over and over again, that it does not know the Rules of Procedure, but it is your obligation to warn him when he wrongly advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8523	Miss Jerkov, you had a chance to see. I warned and interrupted the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8524	You warned him when he came out of the agenda theme, however, you gave him a word based on the wrong indication, which is why he thinks the Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8525	I can't know why he's looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I've determined he's not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure and he doesn't have the right to speak and I've taken his word from him. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised promoters want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm a little surprised by some of the performances of my fellow Members, the MPs, when this united debate is at stake. Here, in essence, only in the good part of the technical change of four laws. Consistency with the Labour Act, compliance with the Law on Government and Ministry. As I recall, and a representative of the RS Government's motion, Dr. Kori Udovici, has also indicated that the amendments and additions of this law are in fact only one transitional period to the fundamental changes in the state administration that I can say is not exactly in great shape, which I can say is not exactly how it is now, capable of responding to everything that is expected of it and the moment it is in. Our state administration needs to be seriously reformed. Legal solutions are not enough weeks or months, but serious analyses and public debates how to bring our state administration into what citizens expect and what we expect as MPs. I have not noticed that until now, especially by 2012, a single public administration worker had responded because the past deadlines he had to follow. Because it hasn't happened in years, one bad rule has become a fundamental rule in our government. Some of the amendments to the law in the state administration that have proposed other political options, I can now say the former regime, have often gone in that direction, to protect the high-ranking official of the state administration for what it does not work, and should work. So we even passed laws that extended their mandates, appointments, tightened the conditions for resolution, without clear criteria how a civil servant or official can be resolved if it does not work properly, or his body, whose body is the manager, does not work properly. So we extended our mandates to five years. And whenever some amendments and additions to the law are in question, on this subject, since 2012, I hear immediately, from former regime members – you are changing the laws to change the officials we have set up, as they like to say, some yellow ones there. First of all, we are politically against the fact that whoever does his job properly is being replaced. We are not interested in the political option that is in place, we have repeatedly proven this in this Serbian Assembly. That many even officials of independent state authorities, appointed by the previous regime, were also elected by this government - supported National Assembly, or parliamentary group that supports this government. But we have one problem, how to bring the state administration to work first in the interests of citizens and the state. This is just one first step. The first step in order to correct some of the illogicalities in this transitional period of uncertainty of the applicable laws and to bring them into office in this transitional period, we, citizens, neither the state, suffer, and God forbid those who are employed in the state administration do not suffer. The whole of the legislation, it seems to me, which has been passed to the employees, has been more of a compromise of certain desires, political ambitions or a desire to foster party friends and colleagues. Look at the law, you'll see, so one chief or advisor, however you like, one coefficient has if he's a manager, if there's a number of employees underneath him, and the other one's much lower, if he's just a counselor. So even in this assembly since 2005/06, hired party friends to become a manager and have almost twice the salary. When it was done in the Assembly, and I can imagine what was done in other authorities of the state administration outside the view of the MPs. Because of such a law, we now have extra employees, who due to the economic crisis should not be fired and thrown into the streets, because a whole system, called the state, has failed. Politicality doesn't matter here at all. We have a device that costs the state terribly, and it's inefficient. Regardless of political belongings, all of us fellow MPs are being brought to ruin. Both us and our families are ruining the future. That's why, if we can't fire some people at the time of the economic crisis, then at least that machine that's very expensive is also very effective. This is just the first step towards it. I wouldn't want to get into it right now like who chose in the competitions. Whether these competitions were political or not. Whether it was a department or not. Because everyone talked, in all the campaigns and 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 about the department. At least we started it. How fast will it go? As successful as we are in the fight against the bad rules that are unwritten, the bad habits that are unwritten, as much as we have a legislative framework for those who do not do their job properly, regardless of party membership, regardless of who brought it, to be resolved. The situation, not just in the state administration, isn't great. It's not great for local self-government either. Here, it seems to me, that the competent ministry has now issued 3,000 building permits for cases that have been in the ministry for over five years. What was the secretary of state doing for five years? What was his minister doing for five years? I'm sorry, if for a short period of time for cases that have stood for so many years, with state secretaries who are also state officials, so they got them because they met the law for several months, I'm asking the question is that a corrupt moment? Is there no such thing as a maybe? It's all funny to you, and that's why I'm not surprised the investors were running from Serbia. I'm not surprised we're in such a difficult economic situation that this government is not guilty of. Now, at least to those of us who are involved in politics, who have little government in front of their eyes as MPs, it is clear how much one inefficient organ can harm the state and society at all and always need to place the responsibility of all those who allow certain such things to happen. We at SNS think this is just the first step. I believe in Minister Kori Udovici to make a system law that will make all this, which is bad practice, bad habit, everything that cost us so much as citizens, not as a state, to put aside, that we can say that Serbia is a legally regulated state in which the deadlines laid down by law are laid before the authorities of the state administration, so that in the day of voting, we will vote to amend and supplement these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8527	Since authorised representatives have exercised their right, we are now moving to the list of MPs according to the order of the reported. The first is MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8528	Thank you, Chairman. When it comes to state administration, the perception of citizens is that it is too bulky, tromical, inefficient and unkind. We heard two kinds of discussion today. One went in the direction of total criticism of the state administration and the assessment that nothing has been done and that there is yet to be done on modernization, efficiency and achievement of the basic objective of public administration, public services should be, above all, the service of citizens and create, as far as they are concerned, contribute to a favourable investment climate. On the other hand, there are two conflicting opinions, that nothing has been done and that work is to be done and reforms are yet to come. When we talk about state and public administration, I think that all of this can have some justification, but if we look at the state administration today and the state administration 10, 15 or 20 years ago, we'll also see significant differences and significant shifts not enough. I fully agree with the assessment that there is a need for broader reform procedures. In fact, there is one opinion that has its own deep justification and I agree with it that public officials are primarily party officials. Today, when you get a job in the state administration or public service, the first question to the new employee is who brought you in and who's behind you. Secondly, even in that one-party system, there was a number of civil servants who believed that he came here on the basis of expertise, and we only know that in a single-party system, this moral-political resemblance had to be fulfilled, so I think that part of the main problem of the state administration is that people who come to state law and public service still have one political support behind them. Some analysis that I have recently come up with shows that civil servants and civil servants in the public administration with only 35% or 40% have effective working hours, which means that more than half of their working hours do not do their job for which they are paid either from the budget of the Republic of Serbia or from the local or regional budget or from other sources of funding. In any case, they are working out of money that is funded by all citizens, and right now they need those citizens who single out their money for the functioning of state and public administration to be at their service. It is also the biggest problem, since you as a minister can in some segment where you are directly competent to influence the improvement of the situation in this part, but where local self-governments that have their original powers, where public services, other forms of organization, where you do not, say, have this kind of direct interventionism, will depend primarily on those who are at the head of these services to deal with this problem. The other thing that's really a big problem is how in this administration to provide sufficient inflow or qualification, perfecting people who will work full-time in the public service or public administration, and on the other hand to keep them, if we invest in their training, in the state administration and public service, because yet all those who don't fear the markets, who feel they can do more than what security offers on the budget, they're going first because they're not, regardless of the high salaries in some agencies, but that's not the rule, salaries of employees in state services and public administration are not big. It's a problem that will also need to be solved. What's also a problem, all of this about grading, progress, periodic evaluation, yearly evaluation, that's good, but, again, believe me, in practice it's all going on political basis. So, if someone is the head of a particular sector, he sets his assistants up on the political line and assesses them on the political line. What is the contribution to the specific performance of work, what is the expertise, what is the average rating in studies, what is security, kindness, is the least important. I know it's largely a matter of mentality and inherited condition, I'm not saying it can be washed with some magic wand, but I think we should point to that problem. On the other hand, what has been quite done in some previous period is the adoption of the Law on Electronic Signature, Electronic Document, Electronic Communications, the adoption of the Convention in relation to the protection of persons with regard to automatic data processing, then the Strategy on the Development of the Information System in Serbia, the Strategy for the Development of Electronic Administration, the Strategy for the Development of the Information Society in Serbia, the Office Business Regulation, the creation of a single electoral list, a partial register of immovableities. The register of economic operators, the Register of Publishing Rights, the Register of Financial Lising, the Register of Public Notices, the Register of Foreign Associations, the Register of Financial Reports and the data on the credit rating of legal persons, entrepreneurs, responsibilities, foundations, prohibitions, etc. was also established. These are indeed major reform progress in the functioning of the public administration and allowing citizens to receive relevant information for their work in a matter of seconds and of importance for the work of business operators and entrepreneurs. What I really think will be the task of this government is that what she has promised and done. So, first of all, as far as professionalization, rationalization and perhaps largely, but there are no rules yet, there are also civil servants and public servants who are very kind, who, regardless of the modest receipts, are extremely correct, safe and within the time they do their job. There are others who leave a very ugly picture, but what the citizen is interested in, when he sees a civil servant, he sees the mirror of the state, and that's why this code that you're promoting is something that is absolutely acceptable, and I think that awareness of someone on behalf of the state is doing a job, receiving money from the budget, should work in terms of his responsibilities for misrepresenting the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8529	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8530	Thank you. The reform of the state administration is necessary and we all agree on that. It is true that there have been attempts in the past, and it is true that these attempts have failed. I'm afraid this is another example. Of course, we can't call this bill a reform of the state administration, we can say that it's a start, which has some good things, but there's a wave of things that don't look like a reform of the state administration, let alone reform itself. In the assessment of the situation, here, I will present some information: in January, February 2004, the Serbian bureaucracy or administration, along with the public sector, numbered 504,000 employees. Today, there are, according to data from the current government, 785 grand. That's an increase of almost 50%. The city of Nis had 813 employees in the city administration in 2001. Today there are 2,150 of them, and the population has not increased, it is the same as it was before, and the 813 were many. At the time of the bombing, in 1999, since 250 officials were mobilized, I sent home 250 other women whose husbands, brothers and children were mobilized, which means we were left 300 and all of the city's functions worked, regular functions plus those of war, without any length of working time, at 8:00. So we have a clerk for two states. That's all we can cover. I say in a joke, to make it clearer – if someone wants to wage some conquest war with this space, it only makes sense to hire all the civil servants we have today and who are getting paid and for whom everyone has chairs and desks, let alone references and duties. What is necessary for Serbia's reform, and especially for the reform of the state administration, is a 20% lower gross salary fund. Without it, nothing can change. We can invent hot water and new theories, like this or something, without 20 percent of the gross salary, there's no god. It's got to be 15 percent of the people from the state administration fired. The question is, who should be fired? All those who have been drawn into that state administration in the last 10 years, since the number went from 500 grand to nearly 800 grand. Who are these people? The unions in the state administration know that, and they should make a contribution to that. They know who's working and who's unemployed, they know who's being brought in and who's worthy, they know who might know who, even though he's not the best worker, should provide social assistance in order not to lose his job. But generally, trade unions, or government employees, who are worth it and who are in the way. And they have to make that selection, of course, with some kind of social program that is necessary. Others in the state administration, in the public sector, need to be stimulated to work better, by increasing their salaries by setting up ways and criteria for those doing good to receive higher salaries. I can tell you right now that the salaries of doctors in Serbia are ridiculous and that it must be increased. That's why we have problems. This has nothing to do with the state administration, but it is generally true for the entire public sector. Teachers, elementary school teachers, the entire average of education has a lower salary than the average of Serbia. Almost 70% of people with higher education are there. The overall average of Serbia is 23% with higher education, and education has 10% less than the average of Serbia. It's a disaster. That's gotta change. Exactly, a few more things. We've given a lot of amendments and we hope that some will be accepted. For example, this change that allows university professors to become directors of special organizations is completely pointless. I think it's only because of an organization called the Republic Secretariat of Law, because there's currently a director there who wants to be a professor. By the way, it's completely pointless for the Property Directorate to be a professor, the Mine Action Centre to be a professor...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8531	Time, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8532	So that's completely unnecessary. There are enough people outside the university who can do that job, and these others who are at the university are supposed to make their biggest contribution there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8533	The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8534	I would only respond to the observation that directors and deputy directors of special organisations can be professors and apply to one function – that is not true. In fact, we have come to realize the need to open ourselves up to a more serious possibility of professionalisation, or capacity for analytical work within the state, if you really want me to explain, by considering a public policy secretariat in which it is extremely important that we can have at least some economists highly qualified. There's a lot of official work here, but if we don't make some effort, the truth is that it's also necessary in the Secretariat for legislation, I can't say right now that we've done an analysis of every other special organization, but we've done an analysis that there is no other form, organisational, for that kind of organization that we may need, which in the management of the state needs to introduce a more serious capacity for analysis and for a high profession. I'd mention it's not usually an unknown practice in our state system. Judges of the Constitutional Court can be professors. So if we think we're more serious about professionalizing and raising the capacity for politics, for policy analysis in our country, we have to open the door somewhere. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Let me give you an answer, one minute. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8535	Mr. Zivkovic, you have no basis for replication. The minister was very precise and clear, and in no way did she mention the problem of your story, but just for the sake of the truth, she said what the goal was and what she wanted to achieve. You shouldn't be running the controversy here right now. You said what you think, the minister said what the law intended, therefore, has no basis for replication. There you go, according to the Rules of Procedure, but I'm asking you to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8536	Article 104. It's not a cause, it's not a replica, it's a misrepresented part of my exposure, I just wanted to help you understand. We don't have to fight about it. I want to explain the reason for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8537	Mr. Zivkovic, I'll cancel the time, but I want to get you on the right path when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure. I won't allow a replica. You abuse the Rules of Procedure to replicate. I won't let that happen. Explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'm canceling your time, so you don't say I took your time. Sign up again, but I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8538	So Article 104, among other things, speaks of the MP being entitled to a replica, and you did not give me the right to reply and thus injured the Rules of Procedure -- "When another MP or minister did not get some part of his presentation well, when he was misread. “ You can take away my word and that’s no problem, but I don’t know why you create such an atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8539	I won't let you, Mr. Zivkovic. Article 104 has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He's talking about the right to a replica, and I'm not going to read it again now, because I've read that article at least 10 times here, and you all know who has the right to give someone the right to a replica. Thank you very much. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8540	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Serbia in the public sector, as far as I understand Ex-Minister Lazar Krstic, has 781 thousand people. We in the public sector have more employees than Montenegro has residents. Not that we have more employees in the public sector than Montenegro has residents, but that surplus is more than the number of people in Montenegro by 50%. So Montenegro has 50% fewer residents, and we have 50% more employees than Montenegro. Therefore, the public sector lives as it will and privately as it must. It is no secret that the public sector is financed from the economy and that everything they need with their regulations, which also public officials bring for their own benefit, and not for the benefit of the manufacturer, settles by mostly writing proposals, drafts, regulations. Most of the administration in Serbia is doing its own job. So, there's a lot of extra laws, there's a lot of things about red tape, public officials, public administration, state administration, getting a job by multiplying regulations. Otherwise, such red tape would become excessive if it did not lay down regulations that make it irreplaceable. So, one document if you want to verify you need to cross a few counters, and that's what my fellow farmer knows best. We, when we go somewhere in the public sector, do anything to confirm about the officials, expect that we farmers, me and my previous speaker colleague, lie in front of that counter and ask them warmly to do after some breaks, breakfast, etc., do their job, or use their public authority and do something without asking for extra incomes, etc., some kind of bribe, some kind of extra tax that you have to pay to do something over the line. So I understand my colleague's nervousness, and I ask the chair to have the understanding of our farmers, because we're mostly victims of the administration, so if you want to verify some wine, if you're in the wine business, then this procedure can take a while, you might find that job, say, farmers or winemakers, and then you can change your profession again after just three years and stop being what you were three years old, saying you've found a profession for your whole life. So, we who do manufacturing, and in manufacturing, I don't currently count us farmers here, working less than 300,000 people, and in the public administration I already said I had 78,000 employees. Public authorities view officials as a safe house from which they go hunting for blue envelopes. That's how it's been so far. I, of course, support the changes to these laws on state administration, officials, as well as the introduction of a little order, so that there may be some layoffs. I'm saying we don't have extra workers, and even in the administration, we have extra workers. I welcome that someone compared the data between 2000 and 2014. In 2000 there were a little more officers, and then DOS came to power, so someone became prime minister and then, say, in 2002, 2003, the number of employees in the state administration increased enormously, so I would like to see that someone put out statistics that are the difference between the public sector, the number of employees in the state administration between 2012 and 2014. This government was elected in 2014, and the previous one, which can be attributed to some kind of continuity with the 2012 one, inherited almost the same number of public administration employees as it is today. Maybe there's a difference in about a few thousand. I don't support that. I wish we had less than we had in 2012, but apparently that number increased between 2000 and 2012, that I could also testify, increased between 2000 and 2003, and between 2002 and 2003 when my previous colleague, a farmer, served as prime minister. When one compares how many employees there were in a public administration, it was supposed to say, in 2000, before 2014, because of the full truth, because of the government's responsibilities in some new employment, it was supposed to indicate how many employees there were in 2012 when there was a change in government compared to 2014, and that would then be the responsibility of the previous government, and perhaps this government that draws continuity from the previous one. Nowhere does people feel bigger than behind the counter, and nowhere does our people feel smaller than in front of the counter. Our public officials, it's not a secret, are taking advantage of their public authority and are looking to humiliate those who are waiting in the long lines in front of the counter. This practice, on behalf of the people, which is poorer, which the dog has nothing to bite for, too long a wait, an attempt to collect taxes from public officials, needs to be broken up. With that, I support these laws. In my opinion, they should have been even more severe in the matter of layoffs, not those officers who are doing their job in a safe way, but those who are taking advantage of their function and are going to hunt for envelopes by banging stamps for themselves, their parties, etc. Serbia's biggest enemy is not the EU, not the United States, not third-world countries. Our biggest enemy is now bureaucracy, even if that's what I think. I think it's worth the support of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8541	The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8542	The Honorable Chairman, the distinguished Mrs. Udovici, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, stands before us today a set of laws relating to the state administration. At the very beginning, I must point out the dilemma – are these legal solutions, which are on the agenda, proposed in accordance with or contrary to what everyone literally, members of the government, including the Prime Minister, publicly speaking or not? I'll take my turn. All members of the government point out their intention to professionalise the state administration, to protect it from any form of politicisation. We've heard a lot in the exposé, and otherwise in public speeches, how the state administration should serve all citizens, regardless of their properties, political and other definitions. I agree with all these principles. I wonder if the proposed legal solutions may not have been introduced in individual cases where this principle, which is acceptable, is questionable? I'll explain in order through concrete examples. The first example is through the already mentioned district chiefs. Under the applicable law, they have the status of civil servants and their working conditions in the public authorities are subject to rules that apply to other civil servants. The government has estimated that, now I'm going to read literally from an explanation, it takes them to become officials, because their status as civil servants is not the same kind of authority that belongs to him. I wonder what powers? The county's chiefs are, as simple as that, co-ordinators. They coordinate and monitor the work of district units, make no decisions, and the only kind of creativity they have is in the launch of some disciplinary procedure against one of the employees in the district units. For all of this, I wonder – what kind of authority does the district chief have, so the status of a civil servant does not satisfy him, but needs to become a official? You told your colleague Stefanovic in an explanation that the political aspect of his function is that he is at the head of the County Council. I ask you, what is this County Council doing? He does not have that kind of authority and jurisdiction that would justify, in its own sense, that the chief, or the one who runs the district council, be a civil servant instead of a civil servant. The second question is if the government in the future has an idea or intention to assign the head of the district to some other non-legislative jobs, but in this respect I warn you of EU recommendations concerning public sector professionalisation, that this is certainly not the direction of public sector professionalisation. I don't want to meet you here again in a month or two, and we're going back to what's currently in force, because you're going to be very difficult, or much harder than you are going to be to the county chiefs who are going to be living in the role of great officials, and you have to explain that now they need to be under the authority of civil servants alone. I'm not going to comment specifically, but I have to pass on some comments and explanations, which is why the district chief's status is now changing, where it is said that, among other things, civil servants are subject to special conditions in terms of type and degree of expertise, that there are now not enough people who are professional enough, on the one hand, and that there is enough trust in them in a party and political sense in order to be able to entrust the role of the district's chief. It's mine to pass on. I suggest that instead of further strengthening the role of the district's chiefs by these provisions, do you seriously consider whether the environments as such should exist at all and if they need what powers and with which authorities? Another example of disrespect for the depolitical principle is the government's proposal for a civil servant who manages the state authorities, among other reasons, to be resolved if there is a breach of public confidence in that state body. In order for something to break, it should exist before. According to all public opinion studies, Serbian citizens trust justified or unjust individuals on Serbia's political and public scene, but do not trust state bodies, systems and institutions at all. So, in a situation where that trust doesn't exist, I wonder how someone who's going to initiate a procedure to resolve a civil servant under the auspices of a breach of public trust will prove that something that doesn't exist has been violated. I worry that this provision opens up a space for politicisation, opens up a space for tabloid Satanization of a civil servant who has been assessed as inadequate, and then, with tears in his eyes, it is found that after a media, a tabloid link, it has led to a breach of public confidence in the work of the state authority and is found to be resolved. I worry because it is too wide, too generally defined and there are no clear criteria as to how it is measured and determined, firstly whether the public's trust in the work of that state body exists and whether it exists because of the act or not of a civil servant has been violated. The other thing that confuses me personally about the proposed laws is the attitude that I also heartily support, that one man should perform one function. As I said, I support this view because if you want to do some function seriously and responsibly, then you only have to do that one function or job, or not to build them up. Superman is one, we're all small, and we need to bite as much as we can swallow. However, the government is now proposing that for the director, as well as for the deputy, but I will only talk about the director although they are the same provisions, a person who is also a teacher of higher education institutions can be appointed. In order for citizens to know what special organisations you are talking about, these are the Republic Secretariat of Law, Hydrometeorological Institute, Geodetic Institute, Seismological Institute, Institute of Intellectual Property, Statistics, etc. My question is whether it is really possible that we do not have enough professional and quality people who could be the directors of these special organizations that I have partly cited, but also need to hire teachers at higher education institutions for this purpose. If we really don't have enough professional people for the directors of special organizations, then the second question is why are only the teachers of higher education institutions and not the order of other types of professions engaged as directors? If there are no answers to these two questions, do not be angry if the question is raised in public – where is now the image of the candidate for director, because only she is missing, so that we know why such a provision of the law is proposed. Finally, the third example I set in this principle debate, but we will talk a lot about it during the amendment debate, concerns something contrary to the EU accession process, which is also discussed by counterpart Stefanovic. Government members and the Prime Minister speak very often of Serbia's EU commitment and full commitment to the accession process. On the other hand, we all know that there are the most state officials and I'm glad you don't belong to that group, which doesn't even speak English. I don't want to talk about how and how they understand each other and what impression they make of them, but if we know that the accession process is a process that involves daily communication with the bodies and authorised representatives of the EU, and when the top state authorities don't even speak English, let at least someone in the state bodies or service of the President of the Republic or at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs know English, that they understand what it is about, what it is to do. For this reason, we have predicted that in the work related to the conditions for working on the jobs of counselors, associates and for working on a position in general, we suggest that you also prescribe English language knowledge as a necessary condition. We'll talk about all the other contradictions when it comes to amendments and debates in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8543	The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8544	The President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Madam Prime Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, differs views on the structure of the state administration and that is legitimate. Today, even though we only comply with four laws concerning state administrations with labour law, we are obviously wasting our time of discussion as if we are talking about serious reform procedures. In addition, I deeply believe that this kind of intervention will also come on the agenda, especially in light of the fact that we are in the accession phase, i.e. negotiations on EU accession which lacks much praise for our state administration and insists on reform and also on the consistent application of the legislation and strategy that already exists. As far as I can tell here, whether we're from opposition or position, none of us had any special words of praise. In fact, they're overruling the whole system of our public sector and state administration. What is very encouraging to me as a Social Democrats, and what is actually imploding to me is that, right now, at the beginning of this debate, the minister pointed out two things. First, its view that, apart from public enterprises, there are no large surplus employees in the public administration, i.e. in the public sector, and what is particularly encouraging is its finding that what we need most in the reform of the state administration is a functional reorganisation. With that in mind, I am reminded of the frequent argument that is being made, and it is related to grossness or overemployment in our public sector, and it is being carried out, in my opinion, on the basis of the wrong calculations. Mathematicians and statisticians know that different proportions produce different results. In general, the number of public sector employees is compared with the total number of employees, and this sometimes results in 45% of public sector employees. However, the public sector is not too big in itself. First of all, the problem is that the total number of employees in Serbia is too small, i.e. the problem is that a large number of people in employment are unemployed, so if we compare things this way, we get this proportion relative to the normal state. If, for example, we change the proportion of public sector employees towards a working-age population, i.e. in a working-age period, we get a very different figure, which is 16.5% of the population of the public sector, and an even more radical picture is obtained when the number of public sector employees is brought in relation to the total population in Serbia. According to the 2012 data, neat public sector employees, along with public companies, even counting on what you have drawn attention to that part where there is no large number of employees in this rest of the public sector, the public sector is 7.6% of the total population, and that is a clear comparison for the public, and that the public knows, by 1% less than in Croatia and Montenegro, by 2% less than in Slovenia and even in the UK and Poland. The example works in Serbia in education, which is the public sector, is around 1.9% of the total population and the European average is 3.46%. In healthcare and social protection, it accounts for 2.24% and the European average is 4.74%. This data suggests that the public sector, especially if we were to get out of the public company account, is all but bulky and we are coming to the issue of reforming the functionality of the public sector. My colleague Vladimir Marinkovic, who was in front of the SDPS today, had an observation in his statement that one of our biggest problems in the analysis of the public sector is the public administration's relationship, i.e. that we do not know what the public sector does to us, i.e. public administration. If we could define it to the end, it would be much easier to define, with a serious analysis, those sectors in the public administration that could be privatized or entered. public-private partnerships to make the state administration more efficient, but also less distasteful when it comes to the budget itself. In my opinion, there are serious dilemmas, whether at all costs we see room to enter that private-public partnership or to be careful about it. Here's why I'm saying it. Since I've been preparing for this whole debate to come up with data, let's just say, two rather picturesque examples. One refers to the UK and the other to Serbia. For example, from Britain, the provision of public services on the market does not necessarily mean less and less costs, and this tells us exactly that example from Britain, or the privatisation of the rail system in 1994. Multiple growth in rail-based budget subsidies has been observed, despite the fact that this is all of the expected results when it entered the privatisation process. With an average of a billion pounds before privatisation, the sum increased multiplely after privatisation. Also in this period since 2006 and 2007, 3.4 years after privatisation itself, the country's doping, or subsidies to British railways, amounted to as much as six billion pounds. The second example is here in Serbia and it is recent. In 2010, the public transport system in Belgrade was decided to be transformed into a public-private partnership, and the control and payment of tickets was entrusted to a private company, and this came primarily from the opinion that it would reduce the budget allocations of the public system. However, in 2013, the amount of subsidies for public transport was slightly more than four billion dinars, as far as I found data, greater than before this partial privatisation despite the increase in ticket prices, and I conclude from this data that the expected increase in money in the city budget was expected, and hence the revenue from such a kind of privatisation. As a Social Democrats, I can never ignore the aspect of social support for citizens through the functioning of the public sector. I can't think of people employed in health care and education as surpluses, and it couldn't just be done on the market, especially in this situation of economic crisis and poverty, we can even enter into that kind of arrangement. The practice of the state administration must be directed towards achieving the strategic objectives that we have set, which are productive, efficient, rational state administration. Each state provides conditions for the work of its state, i.e. public administrations because they are the competences of the state administration to ensure the functioning of a state apparatus that is a service of citizens and businesses, and that is true in all areas of social life as well. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws correcting certain illogicalities in the current Civil Service Act as regards the necessary degree of professional preparation for the work of advisers and associates, as well as those which increase the responsibility and determine the procedure and deadlines for filling the jobs of civil servants are not only formal, but are also essential, especially since the positions of assistant ministers, directors of administrations and special organisations, which are precisely key jobs considered to be pillars of the state administration. The persons who come to these jobs in addition to the highest degree of expertise and practice must be successful managers, because it is precisely in their jurisdiction of the organisations in general. The skills of successful management are delegated to the monitoring of the work of employees, the correct measurement of results, and with regard to the proposal of rewards and penalties. I think that if I'm wrong, Mr Stefanovic was talking about keeping every system, including the public administration system, the mobile system of rewarding and punishment, and I believe that it may be one of the right ways to simply be one of the systems that has largely been addressed to the initiative and that at some point it is not as irrelevant as how it works, but to be the main strategy, monitoring over every public administration employee and the public of his work, and that is one way to invest in people and motivate people to do the most in repairing the state administration itself. I believe there are really few people who don't want to work, but they just can't get along in a weak organization. It doesn't matter if a single civil servant started working at the time of this or that government and whether he was in a party or not. All that matters is that he has all the qualities. The level of burden of civil servants must be taken into account. It may be the easiest thing to rely on is the smartest, smartest ones, but that's not the point of good governance. We all know that because it puts too much pressure on some people and because it does not use the capacity of others. So, the organisation of government affairs, carried out by ministers, state secretaries, particularly those mentioned in positions, is crucial. As I said at the outset, every country's right takes care of the conditions for the work and mode of work of its state, or public administration, of course when it comes to countries with a high social standard, economic potential, the developed economy is easier to provide optimal funding conditions. Serbia is in a crackdown, that's a fact. It has a weak economy, an undeveloped economy, but also an obligation to implement a number of reform procedures that require a strong and well-trained administration. First of all, I am referring to the EU accession process. Recently, Tanja Miscevic, who heads of the process, spoke about the necessity of the state administration in particular, so that everything else that involves joining would be feasible and it should not be disturbed by the mind. That is why I think that this controversy today that has developed, regardless of what is only a matter of harmonising the four laws with the Labour Law, should be meaningful and should, in fact, be more specifically addressed to this aspect by many public debates, because I think it is crucial for the functioning and modernisation of Serbian society as a whole. Members of the Social Democratic Party support, of course, these necessary changes, but also support any further efforts to reform this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8545	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Madam Udovici, the Honorable Lady of the Ministry, the Honorable Mr of the Ministry, we New Party MPs have submitted 13 amendments to 45 members, if I have counted that correctly. Four draft laws that you here today, Mrs. Widowly, defend in this assembly. I think this number of amendments is too large for us to conclude that it's good bill proposals. As soon as we have 13 amendments per 45 members, it means a lot or a lot needs to be changed. Here, I'll try to explain what we think and why it needs to change. First of all, I only have one previous note, otherwise we have an unusual experience of working together in the congregation. Let me remind you, you first appeared here to defend a very good bill on national councils. Then you participated in Mr Vujovic's change in defense of a very bad privatisation law. I think it's, uh, here's what's so interesting to me right now, like a picture of wandering around in power. Please do not take this term of wandering as pesoriously as it says in the Serbian dictionary. Here's what it says, it says – moving in different directions without finding the right way, going there, amo, etc. Here, let me show you why I think that picture is credible about these draft laws. This morning, for example, you also said that these bill proposals are a sign of the government's reform commitment, but you added that these changes are not essential, but that it is a consensus on adaptation, etc. So if you're a sign of reform commitment, then it's a reform sign, not just a matter of technical harmonisation. Again, I must commend you here as part of that one painting. Unlike some of your colleagues, such as Minister Dacic or Minister Verbic, you participate in the dialogue. So we're talking here, you're following up on what's being said here, and I think that's very good. Since you're participating, please respond and respond to the remarks I'm about to make here specifically. For example, in view of the proposal to amend and supplement the State Administration Act, we have six members of the Bill of Law. All the provisions, Your Honor, Mrs. Widowsky, are disputed in my court. We have also submitted four amendments to these six members, but since the sixth member is in force of the law, then there was no point in proposing an amendment to that article. This is why I find all the provisions of this bill controversial. Mr. Zivkovic also talked about it in part. For example, when we talk about Articles 1 and 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act speaks of the government being able to appoint a deputy director of a special organisation or director of a higher education teacher in the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Widowsky, I find that unacceptable. Here, I'm offering three arguments. The first argument, if we set up university professors for the director of a special organization or vice director, it will be necessary for Mrs. Udovici to work on teaching quality in colleges, or universities. So we're going to have an increasing number of students, for example, waiting for their professors in exams that may not be able to appear there or defend their seminar work or master's work. I don't understand why a professor has to be a director in order to assist in some part of the work of public policy secretariats, for example. He doesn't have to be a director or a deputy director to do that. I think that's one strong argument. We have suggested that Article 1 be deleted, as well as Article 2. Second argument, we believe that this formula introduces the possibility of accumulated functions and abuse of political power. There's always a message here from your government that it's necessary to change the awareness of the citizens here. These formulas that we have here, I think it's going to take place with this consciousness that's being sent from the government over and over again, saying that we need to change it. I therefore believe that Article 1 of Article 2 of this Act should be deleted and Article 4 of this Act should be deleted. Proposal for a law amending the State Administration Act to change as we have suggested. We have, of course, proposed amendments to the remaining draft laws, because I only have five minutes of time, and President of the Assembly, respecting the Rules of Procedure, always does not get to me exactly in the fifth minute, I now have to hang up but I'm waiting for your reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8547	Thank you. The word is Mirjana Dragaš. I apologize for giving you my word, the Minister informed me yesterday that at this time, she asked us to take a break because of their obligations. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. I'm setting a break from now on until 3:15 p.m. for the minister's duties and for the maintenance of the child's rights uniform.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8548	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work on the agenda points. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8549	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, let's continue today's work. In front of us today there is a set of four laws that regulate in a better, more responsible and cheaper way part of the business from the apparatus of the state administration, i.e. the position and work of civil servants. When I'm talking about government jobs at all, I mean, I mean everything from local self-government to the work of the republican authorities, and that's how I'm gonna deal with it. In any case, we should well praise these proposals and the Socialist Party of Serbia will vote for these laws that are proposed. I have seen from the motions submitted for discussion that a number of MPs will speak against these draft laws and that they will vote in this regard. When I saw it, I asked myself what it means to be against these bill proposals today, whether and whether it means identifying a state as it is today or perhaps even worse, which means that there is an increase in the number of employees, a constant increase in the number that goes without criteria, knowledge and professions, the creation of new services, agencies, funds, some of which we don't even know as citizens exist, and in doing so, the position of employees in them is often different from those of the state administration, and above all we think of the ministries and I find that such a situation is otherwise unacceptable. We have a situation in such institutions that directors of newly formed agencies, funds etc. Several times they have a higher salary, including employees compared to ministers' salaries. I personally believe that the affairs of the Minister, the Prime Minister and the President of the State, etc. The most responsible jobs in the country and, in my view, they should be evaluated and evaluated through wages and valorize. In any case, it was more said by our authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Mr. Milisav Petronijevic, and I will not continue to do so. This is just in terms of a certain note. So, when it comes to these bill proposals, I am in favour of them being adopted, that these changes go as quickly as possible and as soon as possible, because the state administration must be efficient, quality, qualified, responsible and, above all, at the service of citizens and the entire economic and other system. In fact, when citizens talk about state self-government, they often experience it through its slowness to respond to their demands, to respond to the needs, to give certain assurances, to give certain instructions, etc., and to the situation in which we meet daily when we leave to do something in these institutions, to come to the counter itself, there, of course, from that popular joke of happiness usually Micah the killer who constantly finds new and new requirements and creates the situation that really the impression of the citizens that this state service is actually ineffective, that it is slow and that they lose a large number of hours by waiting in rows etc. And they come into a situation where they can't do their job and do it in good time. Once the state administration in our country was well organized. It was clear what she was doing, what she was doing, what her functions were, who she was responding to, and what the salaries were and what the levels of work were, the degrees of qualifications, etc. It wasn't that difficult, because at the time it was organized good, developed, diversified and efficient real sector that it worked and produced. There was, by my impression and one feeling that I had from that time, one appropriate, correct, as they would say, a natural balance between real-sector employees and those employed by the state administration. People were equally employed on both sides of both sectors, educated equally for both sectors, as well as for pension rights. We also have this information that in the state administration of Serbia before 2000, there were nearly 9,000 employees, and at the time the state was strongly criticised that there were too many employees in the state administration, that they were avatars that functioned only in one particular system, that the system was too bulky and inefficient. Today, however, 14 years later, in Serbia, there were over 30,000 employees in the state administration, and some say significantly more, almost 40,000 to 50,000, which I simply don't believe is because a double number of people actually point to an incredible situation, that we don't have the exact data which is the number of employees and which are the type of services, and therefore what kind of status they are in, and in these 14-15 years, we have the situation that the state is getting smaller and poorer. How did that happen? The economy was destroyed for these 14-15 years under the idea of privatisation, people were out of work, they moved on to the labour market, unfortunately, without effect and without being able to find a new job. As a result, this state sector grew as the only option for hiring people either young or those who were out of work in the meantime or in some other way needed new employment. A large number of unemployed and socially endangered have happened to us in the country. Young people who completed their schools and studies in Serbia were left with no perspective or opportunity to get a job in this period. They leave and leave the country, and then there are two very big problems. One is working and professional, because what is best4 and with the highest volume and quality and qualifications, the best knowledge leaves the country. I think in that professional sense, we're becoming a handicapped state. On the other hand, we also have a demographic problem that I'm not going to talk about right now, but it's about what it's about. When several hundred thousand young people leave the country, there is also the question that there is no renewal of the population, no reproduction, etc., the problems Serbia is facing openly today. In such a situation, pensioners who have the only regular income essentially came into a situation to support young people. In such relationships and education and interest in education of different professions has changed, so that today young people most often want to become managers, PRs of various services and other kinds of occupations are of interest to them, so that we no longer have valid professional production personnel, because they have nowhere to be employed, there is no master who would help such a situation etc. In the country, we are now expecting educated, professional and responsible personnel, who make this service good and efficient. We expect it to be a pillar of society that is in service and state and economy and citizens. That's why it's good that these changes are already being made today. The proposal for this set of laws for the majority of us that we have reported today to discuss, and as the minister herself, in the light of the law, said, is just the beginning. In any case, I welcome this effort, I welcome the goal and determination. Of course, since the minister has arrived, I would like to personally express the satisfaction that her knowledge and experience and, above all, the energy she has will be woven into these proposals that are here today, or any future changes, and according to the strategy that has already been said and mentioned, they expect major changes, especially in 2015. Anyway, Madam Minister, your chair is hot. I would almost compare it to the economy sector, to single out a particular financial sector that I consider to be the minister's responsibility to what is little or what is not, which is difficult. In these two areas in the economy, create one environment and ensure the development of the manufacturing sector, ensure employment, which is Serbia's dried-up problem, its survival and its future. It certainly is a big task, but equally with such a great task I consider reforming the state administration. Today's changes harmonize the position of state administration workers with adopted labour laws and other laws that have been passed in Serbia, as well as EU laws. One of the special sets of compliance of our regulations with EU rules will now be this sector, so great attention should be paid to it. But when we talk about the changes that are made here, I want to point out and I want to, first of all, believe that we need to do it and do it for ourselves. It is not our goal, nor my moral justification, nor do I experience it in such a way as to do so to others. All our efforts in this time must be directed towards being responsible for the state of Serbia, to be accountable to our people, to ourselves and responsible for what kind of person Serbia will leave behind tomorrow for future generations. I want a Serbia that will be developed, in which there will be an opportunity to hire young people, who will be trained to work in their own country and who will thus ensure its future and its duration in one quality way, in pride, of course, of all citizens. When we say state administration, I think of all the services by verticals, from local self-government to the Republic, and I want to point out, that, in addition to what is one general understanding, one general impression, that there are too many employees, that the issue in some cases is the speed and efficiency of these services, that in some situations we encounter the problems of insufficient competence of employees in that service, that we meet with the question and problems of their lack of motivation after particularly long work, etc., I want to say that there are also a large number of good professionals, enthusiasts, people who know their job. I've even had a few of such prominent great experts, and I've had the opportunity and pleasure to work, where I've seen that even after they retire, they will be invited in the form of visiting associates or in some other way, of course, on a volunteer basis, to be involved in making new laws or regulations. This shows that they spent their entire working life in fact devoted to quality work in their ministry and had great motivation to maintain this quality level to the end. However, looking at these laws now and looking at the degree of expertise towards certain levels of work and employment in the state administration and the number of years needed for a particular level of work, for example. From younger associates, to advisors, etc., we see that, I would say, developed motivation for young people who are employed there until, say, the seventh year of work in that particular profession. When he reaches his seventh year of internship, he gets, as I understand it, some of the highest possible administrative status. What happens after 10, 15, or 20 years of service? How will these people, who know in just the best way all the traps and problems in the adoption of certain legal regulations and the need to bring them into line with all the other ministries and areas of work, so that all the laws are connected in one continent, that we will motivate them to continue to make progress in the service and to raise their motivation to a higher level by the end of their working century? When it comes to this, I would also like to point out that for the work and functioning of the country is of particular importance in the world, as well as in the citizens themselves, an important segment of public action, education and health, to which, in the context of the overall reform of the state administration, the state's mileage is complete, should be, in my opinion, given that, in the context of health and education, professions that are of reputation, but undervalued and through wages, but also underrespected, because a number of things of quality have been derivated in the last years of life, it turns out that we have actually brought down the level of their reputation and their pay, but also their relationship. Since they in one quality way influence the education of young generations, especially when it comes to schools and professors, or the treatment and health security of our citizens, when it comes to doctors, I think that these interests should be given much more attention in the future, not to make their interests sound rather than sound, it should be agreed, etc., and thus achieve the appropriate influence and position of these professions, but also to provide their educational, so to speak, function and role. When it comes directly to the laws that are in front of us today and the changes they have predicted, it was also said today in the discussion that they proposed laws have actually brought little changes. I'll just mention some. Compared to what we should and what we expect are relatively small, but I wouldn't underestimate them at all, because they represent a condition that these others could be performed. For example, I had the most characteristic objectives highlighted in this way: ensuring the unity of the system in the work of the authorities and institutions, equating the equal position of the employees in them, precisely, reducing expenditure, further, improving the service system, simplifying the reception procedure, simplifying the procedures in relation to the evaluation of work. There was also a need to ensure the existence of criteria which would be clear when it comes to this, etc. Thereafter, there is a harmonisation of the conditions for the performance of tasks under the call of civil servants at executive posts and conditions for the performance of jobs in place. It shall be possible to coordinate the conditions for the performance of calls. Conditions shall be provided for the work and functioning of the management body in full capacity until the fullness of the posts. The institute v.d. is introduced. doing service for work at a specific workplace. The status of head of the management district is increasing in line with the amendments to the State Administration Act. The unity of the system in the work of the organs, of the service organisation is ensured. The work-legal position of employees is balanced and special training is carried out, which I consider to be particularly important, professional training, which involves one of the things or qualities to which everyone should get used to as much as possible in this modern time. In fact, school can't be finished once and for all. Simply, this modern time and time of electronic communication warns all kinds of jobs and points to daily learning. But when it comes to the state administration, I think that this is particularly true, and that kind of obligation and responsibility must be particularly present. When it comes to this set of laws, I believe that it should be adopted, that support should be given to the minister and that any other kind of support should be given to what was planned for 2015, to her associates to endure in this work, along with their knowledge and qualities that they have directly and to teach in that direction and young generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8550	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8551	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected fellow Members of Parliament, I believe that in every job, and especially in matters related to the leadership of the state and state institutions, it is important that there is continuity. I thought that with your choice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you might have the greatest weight, because you may have the greatest commitment, given your previous professional engagement and experience, to maybe start this topic and that question, whether at this point in time this society needs to talk about reforms only in every area, to give up previous experiences and continuity. I felt that, regardless of whether you belong to a government or a political group that has won citizens' trust in the elections precisely with the "changes and reforms" Parole, perhaps you should draw attention from today, or that the world has not begun since the formation of this government. Continuity, in my opinion, implies, first of all, a deep analysis of what was good and what was bad in the previous period. If you were to start from the fact that people, especially since 2000, have worked intensively and dedicatedly on changes, on reforms, on harmonising regulations and laws with European standards, then you would conclude that by adopting the Law on the Budgetary System in 2005, let's say the issue of local administrations is very clear, accurate and precise and defined and the issue of finance and competence and property and that this law has in some way given space and opportunity to local administrations to develop. If you were to carry out that analysis further, you would see that the big problem arose in 2011 with the adoption of the Law on the financing of local administrations. According to the law, transfers to local administrations have been reduced, new responsibilities have been added, the possibility of ministries and states helping and financing projects that are relevant to local administrations has been lifted. Furthermore, in 2013, local administrations are again exposed to major coups, primarily financial. At that time, the previous republican government abolished transfers to local administrations amounting to over 25 billion dinars to fill its budget gap. All this led to local administrations coming to the brink of bankruptcy, that they are now either in a position to owe huge money or are in a position to withdraw liquidity loans. What was done in the adoption of these laws, and more harmful to local administrations than funding itself, is the issue of intertwining jurisdiction. In the previous two years, you have large examples, i.e. very striking examples, of how public enterprises, institutions, local institutions, republican institutions, are reporting, negatively affecting the functioning of these institutions, i.e. people's lives. The example of Užica, an example of water pollution from eight months ago and Lake Vrujci, or the accumulation of "The Hot Ones", may most clearly speak of how the people suffer through the overlapping of these responsibilities. In the second half of 2012, money was abolished in the Environmental Protection Fund, which is intended, for example, for environmental protection programmes and in this case money intended for the quality of surface water, i.e. monitoring of the quality of surface water. I claim that this is the main and greatest cause of water pollution, which is why the competent institutions are not on time and how they should react. If you were to apply the principle of continuity and tell the citizens the truth, then you would also come to the knowledge, that is to say to people who today make up the political elite or the water SNS, and also to Mr Babic who sits here, that it is not true that the salaries are 72% in the public sector in 2010. I've got information here that's related, say, to basic education. In December 2007, the elementary school teacher had a salary of 32,578 dinars. In March 2012, a sixth-degree elementary school teacher had 39,740 dinars, which is about 30 euros less pay than it was in 2008. So there are actions, there are areas where there has been no increase in earnings, and I invite you to perhaps boldly go public, and even to people who today try to create such a picture in the public and to tell the truth, that it is not true that in all areas, that there have been public hearings on all jobs, that it is not true that there are 500,000 people in Serbia who work in the public sector and it is not true that they have all done wrong and wrong in the previous years I do not know how many years. If you were to go through and through that logic, you would see that in 2010, the government also adopted a regulation requiring local administrations to create criteria, i.e. respect criteria for the number of employees in local administrations, public enterprises and institutions, and you would see that a huge number of local administrations respected the regulation. The town of Užice, for example, applied that regulation. We reduced the number of employees, at that point, to some 150 people in the local administration, and at the same time you have Leskovac who had over 700 employees, which is one legacy from the previous period. If we were to apply that principle of continuity, then we would come to a point where we came out with the truth in front of citizens and say that it wasn't, at any cost, reforms that would go in some unknown direction. In that case, you could fight for the rights of these employees that I think you are in charge of and you are in charge, and you could tell the truth to people that it's not true that everything starts today. What I can tell you as an example, you were in Užica a few days ago, I was mayor of Užica from 2008 to 2012 in a very difficult period, a very difficult crisis, is that we succeeded in gathering people, by believing in institutions, in the strength of people, in completing a huge number of jobs, waiting for years for the realization, and the pipeline, and the dump, and 100 kilometers of streets, and the pool, and stadium, and customs, as well as many other jobs. We've raised a question of city development from a local level. If in this case you expect support from both the public and the public sector employees...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8552	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8553	I'm done. One more sentence. ... For which you are in charge, I think the first and primary step is to show with the vision you presented in the plan of your continued operation and ministry, too, that there are positive experiences, that there is a positive practice and that there is power in those institutions that can separate good from bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8554	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8555	I would correct the previous speaker, not the increase in salaries in public enterprises and the public sector in 2010, but in 2008 and by exactly 68%, although founding in the economy, in the real sector, on the revenue side of the budget, there was no place for such a decision. This happened in 2008, as well as an increase in 72% pensions, and only for the sake of forming power, just because of the chair, because of the formation of the government. It's a fact and it's a fact. These are shackles around the hands of many future generations. Because of such irresponsible moves and decisions in the past, we must carry out painful cuts in the present to reach the future. It's a fact that can't be forgotten, or a fact that can be pushed under the carpet. We don't have a problem with hard stuff, we don't have to go out in front of people and say these hard things in the election campaign and do them now. With its 5.5 billion dinar budget, the environmental fund has been abolished annually because these 5.5 billion dinars have been spent without any control. I don't know what, the tires ended up in Subotica. Because of misbehaving, irresponsible behaviour in the ministry and in the Environmental Protection Fund has been abolished, not because environmental protection is not a priority. Of course, it is a priority, but it cannot only be viewed as form, and that the essence, money, environmental protection remains only on bags shared by schools in the "Let's Clean Serbia" action.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8556	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8557	In the end, another sentence, since my colleague has been delayed, in order not to report again, is the responsible authority that understands the problem of water supply in Uzic, for which the local self-government needed to think both 2008 and 2009 and 2010 and that, with the help of all the resources of the Serbian state, with the help of the Serbian Army, in cold weather, by snow, by cold, to build a water line and to allow people in Užica, but also in all other parts of Serbia, normal conditions for life.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8558	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Jovan Markovic answered. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: To what? ) Mr Babić was given the right to a replica because he mentioned himself by his name and last name. He didn't mention you at any time. He explained. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: He mentioned me as a previous speaker. ( ) The previous speaker or one of the speakers is too wide to give a person the right to a replica. Mr. Markovic, I'd very much like to give you a replica, but I don't think Mr. Babic's speech had anything negative on you. Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Can I do the Business then? If you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8559	I refer to Article 107, which speaks of dignity in the National Assembly, and I believe that calling the previous speaker in this context and twisting what I said in the discussion is an important part, and I need to explain what this is about. First of all, I think it's Mr. Babic. [[Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Is this a replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8560	Please, Mr. Granny, don't throw away. Mr. Markovic, don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. You said yourself that the chairman has the ability to assess whether there was anything negative about someone's exposure. I've already said that Mr. Babic in his replica hasn't said anything negative to you. He explained and took advantage of the possibility because you mentioned his name and name. You did it again now. You gave him a chance to replicate again. I would ask you to complete your discussion at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8561	Mr. Chairman, can I explain to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8562	You can, but only a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Not to turn it into a replica, because you don't have the option, not even your MP group has enough time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8563	Mr. Chairman, I've been mentioned in a negative context...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8564	You're not mentioned in a negative context.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8565	... in the sense that I have not done enough as mayor of Užica from 2008 to 2012 to prevent the negative consequences of water accumulation and pollution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8566	Mr. Markovic, please. The People's MP Milan Koraq came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8567	For the sake of the public and the Parliament itself, Mr Babic may have had a lapus. In 2008, pensions increased by 4%, an extraordinary 10% and in October 4.3%. So it can't be that pensions in that year increased by 72%.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8568	Mr. Korach, you have no opportunity to speak at this time. You abused the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given to the People's Messenger of the Jellysavet of the Colors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8569	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we have proposals to amend and supplement the Law on Civil Servants, the State Administration, as well as the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Salaries of State Employees and Deputys and to the State Authorities and Public Services, and I will focus on these amendments only in my presentation today. In the case of changes and additions relating to wages, it is a matter of compliance with the Labour Act and the part relating to past work. This basically means that civil servants and deputies will have the right to add 0.4% to the basic salary for each completed year of work in the employer’s employment, regardless of which state body they were employed in. The second amendment refers to a civil servant's severance to which a working relationship has ceased due to the expiry of a certain period since he became unscheduled. That deadline was six months, now it's been reduced to two months. As regards salaries in state authorities and public services, it is also a matter of harmonisation with the Labour Law and the right to add to the basic salary of 0.4% for each year of work achieved in the employer's employment relationship, it is very important, in the same activity, covered by the same network plan, i.e. established at the same level of government. So, it's just the alignment with the Labour Act and only in the past work. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State Administration concerns several members who were to be regulated in accordance with the duties and functions in the system of state administration. We all know that the state administration is part of the executive government of the Republic of Serbia that does administrative work through the ministries, through the administration authorities of ministries and through special organisations that are otherwise educated for professional and related executive tasks whose nature of work is such that it requires greater independence in work and most often through secretariats and institutions. With these amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration, more specifically by supplementing Article 35(3) and (4), the Government may appoint a director of a special organisation in the order of teachers of a high school institution for a period of five years, so that the director of a special organisation can continue to work as a teacher at that higher education institution. The same applies to the deputy director of a special organisation. The second amendment concerns the head of the administrative district whose jurisdiction has so far been mirrored in one of the co-ordinated roles, i.e. in co-operation with municipalities and cities in the area of the administrative district. The head of the management district will now be a functionary. Instead of five years, as it has been so far, it will be set for a period of four years. It is appointed by the government, on a proposal from the minister responsible for state administration affairs and will be appointed within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. It also provides for changes in the conditions relating to professional training, which the civil servant must meet for the management of the administrative procedure. To date, these conditions have been highly achieved by the education of the second-degree and master of the study, and now, in order to ensure the necessary human resources and to adapt to EU countries' solutions for the management of administrative and decision-making and rights and obligations, both natural and legal persons can be authorised by a state official who has acquired a higher education in basic academic studies of at least 180 points, basic vocational studies, i.e. studies up to three years of age. The reasons for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on civil servants are multiple. They all stemmed from the need to regulate more precisely one public sector organ work system in order to balance their working position, while at the same time the need to improve the overall service system requires harmonisation with the Law on State Administration and with the Law on Higher Education. Amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants shall be made to the Law on Higher Education relating to education, i.e. the conditions for the performance of certain tasks under the call of civil servants in executive posts, if and the conditions concerning their working experience. Thus, in order to work on the jobs of senior advisors, independent advisors and younger advisors, a state official will have to obtain a higher education on basic academic studies of at least 240 points to Master academic studies, specialist academic studies, specialist vocational studies, or basic studies of at least four years. Work experience ranges from three to seven years, depending on the calling of a civil servant. The paper is that on the work of adopting a younger associate, the civil servant must have acquired a higher education in basic academic studies of at least 180 points, basic vocational studies or studies of up to three years and completed a traineeship and at least five years of employment in state authorities. These changes and additions also regulate the way in which public officials are given a solution when an official has the right to appeal for a solution which decides on some of his rights. Also proposed is a different way of advertising public competitions through an Internet presentation on the Internet presentation of the Staff Management Service, but can also be published on the advertising board and the periodic publication of the National Employment Service ad. It is also a newspaper of the appointment of officials until the appointment of a civil servant to office. This is done for a period of six months, without publishing an internal or public competition, but the competition must be opened within 30 days of the date of appointment. In case no election is made following the competition, the status of the performer shall be extended for a maximum period of three months. These amendments also specify the conditions which constitute the basis for the discharge of the duties of civil servants from the post, and provide for the professional training of civil servants, both in general and in particular, for who brings the training programme and who implements it. A special form of professional training is also introduced through internships, then training trainees for independent work and passing a special expert and state examination that is passed for jobs with special duties and powers. What may be most important is that these changes ensure the establishment of a hierarchy in the process of determining responsibility for the work of civil servants and introduces a return to application of the Code of Conduct of Civil Servants and regulates the rules of ethical behaviour of civil servants. The deadline for the adoption of all sublegislative acts to be agreed with this law shall be 90 days from the date of entry into force of this law. And at the end of the voting day, the SNS will vote for all these amendments and additions to our proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8570	Thank you, Mrs. Pryboy. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8571	Chairman, Article 27. I'm asking you, and I'm sure that's what you want, to check the time of the parliamentary group. I'm sure there are a few more seconds left to say that these laws are bad, because instead of professionalization, they deepen the politicization of the state administration. Please check DS time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8572	I'd like to thank Mr. Nikolic for the suggestion, but unfortunately not, because we've used time of eight minutes and 28 seconds. I thank you for your attempt to explain your opinion. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8573	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear minister, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament. We have four proposals to amend and supplement the laws concerning state administration, and the state administration should be the most efficient part of public administration and practically the backbone of the entire public sector. The state administration according to law says it is part of an executive body that performs administrative tasks under the rights and jurisdiction of the RS and is made up of ministries, authorities of the administration as part of a ministry and a special organisation, or authorities of a state administration that can only be educated by law. The public works, and it should repeat that the state administration according to the data that we all have employed around 30,000 citizens. In the state administration, which is only part of the public sector, which accounts for 30,000, while in the entire public sector, according to data, there are also around 700,000 employees. When saying this figure, you must bear in mind that 700,000 people work in the health sector, education, culture, that the public sector is also made up of military, police, security services, the entire judicial system, the state administration, local self-government, public enterprises, public agencies, as well as regulatory bodies and independent institutions. However, while all these institutions and restrictions numbering 700,000 people are being counted, surely the RS economy cannot carry on its back such a public sector. We are all aware that in the people it prevails that the entire public sector, not only is it huge, but it is inefficient, confusing, that the procedures are very complicated. Unfortunately, I believe that ministry colleagues can also testify that citizens are the ones who think that civil servants are doing nothing and that they are getting paid. I'm not saying that there are exceptions, but most civil servants do do their job in a very safe way and most of what they do for the state is what they do for the government. The fact is also that no procedure or problem that every Serbian citizen wants to solve cannot be solved by addressing an address. We usually have a problem when we think we're going to any public institution, if we're going to wait, i.e. Hear this famous sentence – come tomorrow or you are short of this or that paper. I see by your reaction from the Minister you're very aware of that. The public administration must be a service to citizens and businesses, and the state administration must certainly be motivated to do so and not only through receipts, but also by various types of rewards, benefits, opportunities for improving knowledge and skills, the evaluation of the expertise, and the advancement itself, which these amendments of the law, when it comes to state administration, foresee. The essence of these changes on civil servants provides for the unification of the equal status of employees, the harmonisation of the conditions for performing the tasks in the context of calling civil servants with the provisions of the Law on Higher Education. A new system of professional training is established, which implies the obligation of professional training of officials on the basis of the need for restrictions on state administration, as well as a special form of professional training through internships, as well as references to professional training within international co-operation. The Law on civil servants introduces more restrictive measures concerning the discharge of civil servants, more specifically after one assessment with – unsatisfactory, a working relationship is interrupted. Here, it should bear in mind the possible abuses of the executives themselves because the evaluation criteria provided for by the RS government's regulation on the assessment of civil servants are, in fact, insufficiently accurate and certainly, there will be harmonisation in the coming period, but some new criteria should be considered. An open question for me, and counterpart Mirjana Dragas also mentioned this, is that it is stimulating the motivation of officials to work in the state branches. For example, what motive for staying has a civil servant who, when he is seven years old, can reach the highest calling, in this case a senior advisor, what motive for working until full-time can he realistically have? There may be if an improved, or state official is in position, and you will agree that not all civil servants can be in position. Amendments and additions to these laws are an important step in introducing order in the state administration, but you are aware that the state administration is only one part of the system and that determination and sometimes unpopular measures are needed to put the whole public sector in one precise and stable framework. There is still no single database in Serbia, if that is what we can call it, public administrations that include both state administration and local self-government, special government services, independent regulatory bodies, judicial authorities, education and health systems and security systems, and therefore I consider it to be a multiple need, and I believe that you, as a resolution minister, will insist on building a specific database, because it becomes the basis for designing and improving a more efficient system. I think that only the base can provide a complete and clear insight into the structure and competence of all state authorities, the specificities of individual institutions and the number and position of officials, the basics and coefficients of employment and the nature of work relations and put an end to speculation about the public sector and the stories of possible abuses. Only in this way can it be concluded whether there are overlapping powers, whether there is a need for possible abolition or merger of certain institutions and of course you can consciously and properly redistribute the workforce. We hope that there will soon be laws relating to the single system of income for all public funds users, more specifically all public administration employees, which will continue the process of regulating the entire public administration. When it comes to these measures, the underlying basis must be measurable criteria for assessing the quality of work, taking into account all specificities and bodies themselves, i.e. institutions, as well as the powers, i.e. the responsibilities of officials. The Socialist Party of Serbia, as you have heard, supports all these amendments and amendments to the law and, of course, we support your readiness for both you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to regulate this system more clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8574	Thank you, Miss Miladanovic. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8575	Dear President, the honourable Deputy Prime Minister with his associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing today a set of laws relating to the state administration and state officials. First of all, I want to point out that this set of laws is in line with the laws that have been passed before, and above all with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, and that part relating to past work, but also in line with the Law on Government and Ministries and in line with the Law on Higher Education. Certainly, this set of laws is the first, small but very significant step in the way of reforming the state administration and state administration. What through the amendments and additions laws, both the Law on State Administration and the Law on State Servants implements and what I would put in place as crucial, is professionalising the work of state administration and civil servants, then increasing the responsibility of civil servants, perfecting professional staff. It's about those three key elements. I will now focus a little more on the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Civil Servants and this administration on Article 17, which is complemented by Article 97, which refers to the obligation of civil servants to continuously improve and gain constant new knowledge. In fact, we must forget the time when we only needed a diploma to enter the state authority and spend our entire working life in that state body based on that diploma. The diploma is certainly very important for obtaining employment in the state body, but it cannot be permanent and only significant for the entire working century. For this reason, it is precisely this law, amendments and additions to the law that state officials are obliged to keep training, to constantly acquire new skills and knowledge, and of course to improve the quality of service provision, both for citizens and for businesses. Of course, this article in Law 17, 18, which complements Article 97, provides for accurate training by civil servants. It is a general programme adopted by the administration's competent ministry and a special training programme brought by the manager for each year. In addition to the professional training that should be permanent, permanent and continuous, a special form of professional training relating to internships is envisaged. Also, those legal provisions are provided for, of course, for internships between the employed civil servant and the organisation referred to therein, a contract shall be concluded where the rights and obligations of both the state authority and the employed civil servant referred to in the internship are precisely specified, and the obligation of a civil servant to spend twice as much time as the time spent in the internship in that State authority or other, i.e. to spend at least a year. Otherwise, it is required once to repay all the money provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In addition to the professional training that should be permanent and permanent, it is very important to note here that this law should also be adopted from the financial aspect, i.e. for the start of the realisation of the Financial Agreement, which the European Commission signed with the Republic of Serbia in December 2012, which refers to the implementation of the project – Support for further improving the professional training of civil servants. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, I would focus on three basic segments. The first segment is to improve the quality of work of special organisations where it is envisaged that directors and deputies of these special organisations, most often engaged in highly professional work, are teachers with higher education, or teachers from higher education institutions. They choose on a time period of five years. This is important from the aspect of improving the quality of the work of these special organisations. Another significant segment to which these amendments and additions to the law apply is the position of the head of the management district. Those from the status of civil servants in position move into the status of officials, because their basic jurisdiction is actually the implementation and implementation of government policy, so that it is absolutely in line with the jurisdiction they will have. The head of the management district will be elected within 30 days of the law-making day and elected for a four-year period, unlike the previous five-year period. In these amendments and additions to the law, the last part also refers in fact to harmonisation and to the Law on Higher Education, but also to European laws, which is that a civil servant who under his authority can also be a civil servant who has completed studies for up to three years. Of course, it's the lowest step. Other systematisations and other rules may provide that this level of vocational education may also be higher. What I particularly want to stress is that this bill, first of all, leaves a 90-day deadline for the adoption of sublaws of amendments and amendments to the Law on civil servants. I believe that the time envisaged should be respected, and the adoption of sublegal acts is also important for the implementation and implementation of the complete law. The Serbian Progressive Party, of course, will support a set of these laws, and I would end my presentation in part from Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic's exhibition, as of 27 April this year, in which he said the state administration must be a support rather than an obstacle to investors and privates. I hope that the state administration in further steps will indeed become a real support, both to investors and businesses, as well as to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8576	I thank Mrs Jevtović Vukojičić. The word has a folk MP, Vladim Djukanovic. Here you go, Mr. Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8577	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mrs. Widowsky, this is good law, objectively good law. Of course, I hope that when it's brought into the set, the whole new law will be even better. There's a lot of good solutions here, and there's something I'd have to say a little bit, but hopefully we'll come up with some good solutions in this discussion and maybe something will fix it. There is no dilemma that we need a more professional and better state administration, but what is a problem, when we talk about the general and public sector, we often just look at ourselves, in fact we're globally looking at the whole public sector, unfortunately we're almost not even making a list of how many people we have in the public sector, and it's not even finished what was intended, but the last finance minister seems to me to have said that figure of nearly 800,000 people, which is really scary, which would be scary for China, not for Serbia. But what you can notice in general in the public sector, which is that we in certain segments have a total lack of people and that is what is unacceptable. We have a bulky administration, a completely abnormal administration, dysfunctional in many ways, and let's say we have a total lack of people in inspections. For example, you have a major tax inspection problem, with market inspection, you have a problem with the police, you don't have enough operational personnel in the police force that would really have to perform certain tasks on the ground. You have, for example, someone's hired in the police department as many people as you want in the administration, but we have very few people in surgery. Now that you have this problem, and that's a ban on employment in the state sector, which is fine, because the state can no longer stand and the private sector can finance it more, you're creating an objective problem that in these segments you have fewer people. There should be an improvement or already a solution, for in the future we will have real problems. Especially now, let's say, if the state starts to suppress the gray economy, which is definitely something that's desirable. If you don't have enough tax inspectors, the question is, can you do it effectively? It's a good solution to this about the county's chiefs that now there are state officials. I'd really like to ask you here to make an account, today as the district chief is imagined and how it works today, I have to admit that in many districts citizens have no idea who their district chief is. We have essentially one person elected by the government, she's the head of the county, but the question of how many of him and the presidents of the municipality themselves ask for anything or mayors, and how much does he have any influence in that district at all, so if he's already moving on to the status of state officials, I think he should be given more authority and that he should have greater authority in the end, towards people who are executives in local self-governments, and of course the citizens get to know him a lot better. I have to admit, as far as the public competition is concerned, this is a very good solution, with what you should have left for the competition to be announced in the public record. I don't see why it's out, it should stay, because besides all these things that are listed, and that's the portal, the Internet presentation, the personnel service, all that's really commendable. The question is how many people are really using the Internet with us, so someone can only buy daily newspapers. It wouldn't be a bad idea to think about it if it was public opinion. Otherwise, it's a very good solution, given that we now have more places to advertise. There have often been abuses, for example, in advertising especially in these public messages because you had such a solution to do so in the “Official Messenger” or in one of the public ballots. Of course, certain companies would work for a particular political party, right? Then only those daily newspapers give these ads and then, of course, those daily newspapers get some applications, not so small for that public advertising. So this is a good solution now. We have multiple public ads now, but we should let people buy a simple newspaper in public too, so it wouldn't be bad to keep it that way. As far as the election process is concerned, there's one of my concerns. It's a good thing that this solution is being introduced in an election procedure that you can do in some slightly informal way to ask about the candidate. There should be, of course, caution. You know, they can often report abuse. The way you're asking about a candidate now, given that someone and the phone can get back to you, as far as I can see in this solution. You know, let's not lie to ourselves, people often play with Ilija Tvorović and the Balkan spy, and then they say they try to frame the other candidate, so they say -- he's broke, he's robbed something somewhere. That's how they try to discredit him. If you are in such a way coming up with certain information, certain abuses may occur, so you should consider whether when a new law is passed that such a solution may improve. This isn't bad for now. Of course, it takes a little bit and in a different way to ask about candidates, not just dryly through biography, or through CVs, but this should certainly be taken into account and careful to avoid abuses. I must commend you very much for introducing that the civil servant is obliged to perfect himself. So not only does he have a right, but he's in debt, and plus the manager is obliged to allow him to perfect himself, which is a very good solution. We have so far had many civil servants, functionally completely unable to perform these functions and did not care to further perfect themselves. They're just here, they get paid, it's a nice state-of-the-art form. Now they are obliged to perfect themselves and is obliged by the manager among other things to send them to this perfection which is a very commendable solution. So you won't be able to sit in the administration your whole life, get paid without working on yourself. We don't need such a fit, of course, given that technological innovations are exceptional, society is progressing, we have progress in the world, and of course you have to keep track of all this and you can't get into your office and do nothing. What I would resent is for article 78, which is actually changing, where some new things are added, and that's where I'd ask you to be a little careful. I think that's what my colleague Martinovic was talking about. Somewhere I can even agree with her, here's to being honest, and it's about this when a civil servant can be relieved. I really don't mind, it has to be taken care of, but you know when you write a sentence – if there is a public breach in that state body. It's really a little too wide, which means if there's a public mistrust. There are many abuses to report. You know, someone can run a campaign against this state body and write about this state body in the media, and certainly the public, let's say, in the Serbian Parliament, by last year, actually until last year, you had one disastrous mistrust of citizens in the Serbian Parliament. Should all those working in the Serbian Parliament really be replaced or already discredited in some way, although it is in many ways a campaign against parliament is conducted in a very inappropriate way. I am pleased that the President of Parliament has passed, and the current assembly that some of this trust has brought the citizens back to parliament, but I must admit that this is far from what we should all expect, to be ideal. Of course, when you have because of such a rather ugly campaign that is led against this most important state institution in a legislative sense, then you know, logically someone will ask a question – then let's take all the officials in the Assembly and take them out. So that's where the bill should be taken. It's really a little too wide an interpretation. Also, it seems to me that the Guardian of Citizens is given little too much authority for what reason. I understand this solution to the Anti-Corruption Agency. This is absolutely correct and the Anti-Corruption Agency has that kind of responsibility to assess whether the civil servant has worked adequately. But you know, to give the Citizens' Protector that he makes recommendations, the question is how competent he is and would he really do something like that? It's my own suggestion. I think we should leave only the Anti-Corruption Agency, not the Citizens' Protector. What I really still have to commend is a special professional exam. It's a very good solution that's being introduced here. Because we must constantly have and when we have these trainings of the civil servants themselves, they must constantly be prepared to take a certain expert exam. That it is in some way an obligation to keep that job. We need, as I said, a far more efficient and better government. I believe that through the new law, you will perfect all of this. In any case, such a grudge, until this comes to terms with the amendments, maybe the government could think about it, just to fix it, and the law itself as a law is good, and in the voting day, SNS and I as its MP will certainly support this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8578	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8579	Madam President, Madam Udovici, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I will be much shorter than the esteemed counterpart Djukanovic. I'll try to look into the proposed laws today. Today's draft laws, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on salaries of civil servants and deputies, the Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, constitute a continuation of the reform processes launched by the SNS as the holder of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is a good thing we have this debate today, which we have a debate on these proposals, because they are very good at regulating this area and contributing to further public administration and public sector reform. When I say reform processes, I am primarily referring to the alignment of these draft laws with the recently passed Labour Law, and the Labour Act, which we have adopted, is certainly reform law. These laws aim primarily at raising the quality of work, strengthening the capacity of the state administration, more precise regulation of the rights and obligations of civil servants, improving the efficiency of the state administration and employees of the state administration, i.e. civil servants and deputies. Amendments and additions to the law should speed up the procedures for the selection of the training and evaluation of civil servants, which will reflect their motivation, thereby further improving the work of the state administration, but also raising greater responsibility for employees and civil servants. I would like to make a positive statement to your findings, Mrs. Udovici, that by amending these laws, the work of the state administration will be professionalised, which is further achieved, if I may say so, by applying the provisions under which the persons appointed from now on have to be elected to the competition within nine months. The establishment of a new legal framework introduces a newspaper that provides that the employer, i.e. the manager, in this case, is required to enable the professional training of a civil servant, which is clearly seen in Article 17, which changes the current Article 96, which reads: “The professional training is the right and the duty of a civil servant to acquire knowledge and skills, or the ability to carry out jobs in accordance with the needs of the state authority. The Head of Staff shall be responsible for enabling the civil servant to be trained in the performance of jobs in accordance with the professional training programmes set out in this law." So this, in my opinion, is a concrete benefit resulting from this bill. The adoption of the proposed solutions provides for the full implementation of the Strategy for the Professional Training of Civil Servants in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Strategy for Professional Training of Civil Servants in the Republic of Serbia. I would also mention that this law is the basis for the implementation of the Support Project to further improve the professional training of civil servants under the IPA 2012 programme. What I would like to point out is that this package of laws is only a step towards systematic and comprehensive regulation of the status and rights of employees in the state administration and of civil servants until the adoption of the Law on Salaries and Other Laws, which will finally best regulate the entire area. For all the reasons I have stated, what I want to point out is that I will support this law and I will vote for the adoption of it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8580	The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8581	Thank you. Dear Madam President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are considering the draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants, the Law on the Salaries of State Officials and Deputys, the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services and the Law on State Administration. It is clear that all four laws apply to the work of the state administration, as well as to the rights, responsibilities and status of civil servants, deputies and public service employees. These draft laws are mainly technical and constitute interventions to comply with new or amended existing laws, such as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour or Harmonisation Act, in order to improve certain segments of the functioning of state bodies and of the official system. There's already been a lot of talk about the concrete changes and the newspapers that bring these bill proposals, so I'm not gonna stick to it. Although some colleagues have found that there is no need to talk in this home about what the state administration is and what the importance of the good functioning of the state administration is, I think it is also necessary to talk about it. I graduated from law school within 24 years and began working at local self-government where I was accepted in a competition without any party on the basis of my characteristics and qualities. I spent almost 20 years in the state administration on various jobs, of course, on the jobs of a graduate lawyer always, often having contact and co-operation with state authorities at different levels. Then we had both the federal state and the republican organs and the circuit organs. The authorities of the state administration and local self-government, as well as the official system must be efficient, professional, educated, because there is no orderly, advanced, stable, credible state that can develop without such a state administration and local self-government, as well as an efficient service of citizens, because they are financed from taxes paid by all these citizens, and are also educated to achieve these two objectives. State authorities and the service system are of great importance and work to address issues and problems of citizens and legal persons, apply regulations and should point to the need to change them, and to prepare texts to amend existing rules or to adopt new rules in accordance with the experiences they face in their work. If this is not constantly in view of the state authorities and the official system, it is easy to slip into the trom, a bureaucratic apparatus with inefficient and unnecessary administration. That is why these bill proposals have meaning not by the size and type of changes and newspapers they bring in, but by the fact that, as announced and as the minister herself said, they are an initial, initial step in the long-ahead reform of the state administration. State administration reform has dealt with all governments since 2000. It's a complicated and long-term process that needs to be continued. I really hope now that the conditions have already been met to move forward with a thorough and thorough reform of this important segment of the state system. For this reason, I believe that it is also good that an action plan for the implementation of the State Administration Reform Strategy was approached, as the strategy was adopted in 2005. It is particularly commendable that the action plan has been put into public debate, which can involve all interested factors and give their opinions, suggestions and suggestions. One of the major problems in the realisation of the reform is the fact that the employee register does not provide complete, high-quality and reliable data, which means that we do not have basic data, and without a functional analysis that should contribute to the reduction of the number of jobs, where necessary, the removal of non-functional and unnecessary jobs, but also an increase in the number of employees needed, with certain qualifications and skills, a similar requirement for modernisation and operation, cannot be implemented quality reform. In his exposé, the Prime Minister announced that an analysis of the number of employees, taking into account the measurement of the impact of employees, would be completed by November 2014, and that concrete plans and programmes would be adopted afterwards on dynamics and implementation in each sector. We expect it to be presented to the public soon and as a regulation on strategic and implementation development documents is announced, the basis of a system of strategic planning in the process of defining public policies, which is within the jurisdiction of the Republic Secretariat for Public Policy. A particular problem is the number of employees in public enterprises, but this was spoken by my colleague Malovic and I would not keep fellow Members and you re-delivering that information. Every start is hard. A good start requires first recognition that we do not have a functional state administration that can meet the demands of a modern and modern state, which can support further business environment development, as well as contribute to attracting foreign investment. If we are ready to admit it now, we already have a good starting position to implement a comprehensive reform of the state administration. I must finally comment on what these laws have been put into the procedure of an emergency procedure, because I believe it was time for the preparations, to enter into the regular procedure and that it has already become, in some ways, the manner of abuse of this Constitution that provides an exception when laws can go according to an emergency procedure. Finally, I would also like to point out that public administration reform depends to the greatest extent on the political will of those managing the state, whether they really want to implement a real and effective reform that will create a good and stable state administration as a segment of the entire state community. The new democratic party and NDS lawmakers will support all steps leading to a good implementation of such a reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8582	Thank you. People's MP Free Homen isn't here. So we're done with the speaker list. No more sign-ins for the word. I ask now whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who still wish to have their own time in accordance with Article 96. Rules of Procedure to report for word? The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8583	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister Udovici, in these five minutes, I just want to try to make some kind of recapitulation of what we said and what our objections and questions were, in the hope that we'll get some answers. Before that, I want to apologize to you personally because one segment of my exposure could have been interpreted in a very unfavourable, negative, even rude way. That's why I want to make an apology publicly to you this time, if that's how it's been experienced, because it wasn't really my intention. There are a few problems here that, in our opinion, pose a serious obstacle. One concerns the ambiguity of why someone puts himself in the position of functionors, and it is not given the authority to actually be a functioner, so, or to give them the authority to be able to function or to keep that person a civil servant in office. That's the first thing. The second thing about these problems that we have put forward, to the very clarity, is the overly broad principle of evaluation and the particularly problematic attitude regarding resolution, which is to compromise the reputation or endanger the secrecy of the functioning of certain state bodies. It's very wide-ranging and here it is, and now it's come to the Serbian Parliament that my colleague Djukanovic has agreed with me and me, not to be one-way. This shows that this is not a certain opposition political cap, but is indeed a problem that can be subjected to serious abuses in our political legal life and the life of the administration of the Republic of Serbia. In order to avoid it, I urge you once again to try to present this matter more precisely, that the amendments that are submitted in this sense on all sides be seriously considered and that, in our opinion, these two inconsistencies, to say the mistakes, the wrong moves or the misunderstandings that arise, in some future period, because we realize that the whole State Administration Reform Strategy is not only resting on these changes to the laws that you present here, but they are just one beginning. That's where I agree with you. However, I must, as a man who monitors the functioning and legal traffic of our regulations, say that we are simply buried here with powerful announcements by this government that something will be improved and always spoken to us – this is the beginning now, we will only now do so. I ask you to consider these remarks, that we all understand that it's not a matter of being a district chief, whether or not it's being appointed by the government. We think it's not good, even though it was done at the time of our government. We believe that this principle needs to be further democratisationed and turned to citizens, but it gives them powers that will be either original or take away certain powers of local self-government, so give these people. It is the only source of competence, relevance, influence and power in a particular district. Everything else is just a termology and an attempt to cover up and lay some false ground that the government will essentially put people in the environment, giving them a functional role, not giving them legal tools in their hands to really be and to really do something concrete. I agree with everything a colleague said about work – the lack of the work of inspection services, the lack of competence, the insufficient number of people, the lack of authority. Without those things, we can't bring order. The introduction of order into the state administration is the introduction of order into Serbia. It stretches from the very foundation of our country. If we don't do it and if our steps are this unspeakable, shy, unsuspecting, then I think we're stuck at the very beginning. I'm sure it's not your intention, and I'm sure you don't want it, but I'm sure you're also aware that you're in a government that works in part, partial, segmentary, campaigning. In this situation is covered by a cloak of announcements of a highly skilled media spin and expectations of grand gestures even from the minimal steps you take with full honor and responsibility. No one will question that. Since his colleague said so, there was a small mistake. I have to say, in the end, I owe that explanation to an esteemed colleague, I graduated at 25, not 28. It doesn't matter for this debate, but it was during today, so it doesn't matter now, but I think it's much more important that you, the minister, try this opportunity now to take advantage of these two, I'd say, the biggest suggestions or criticisms and respond in a time that's unlimited to you, unlike us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8584	Thank you. No more reports. Does the legislator want to follow Article 96? The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8585	I would like to take this opportunity now to conclude what we heard in this debate, so that with as few misunderstandings and as many clear tasks as possible, we went further into the debate later, to consider individual members of these laws and to define amendments if they are and to what extent they are necessary. First, I would like to agree and thank many debaters for the assessment that public administration reform is really necessary and the conditions of all conditions to move forward within a little longer. There are, of course, urgent issues and painful issues both in the finance sector and in the economy sector, but Serbia cannot move in the direction in which it wants to develop as it deserves its potential and how it deserves its citizens, and the quality of its citizens, if the quality of its institutions is not better, and above all, it means that indeed public administration, to say the simplest thing, is to put it in order. In that context, it is clear that even in the past there was not enough will, perhaps even capacity. Many of the changes, many of the reforms that have been made, have remained on paper, often under EU pressure, which is trying to help us adapt to its standards, and now there is a really big and comprehensive task ahead of us, a difficult series and complex, above all, a job that we are still preparing for both our ministry and other ministries in the government or institutions in the centre of government, so that this job can really be done. It's not just about changing regulation, it's about really having to change the structures on the ground. In that sense, I would point out, there have been a lot of discussions and there are still confusions about numbers, surplus employees, etc., just to point out, 550,000 is public administration without public enterprises, if we add public enterprises, it goes over 750,000. It is possible that when we have even better records and we can analyze it even more finely, we are really working on it and the fact is that it tells us something about the state of our administration that we do not have these figures, with greater certainty and precision, but it is important to make that difference that those 200,000 differences are not an increase in numbers in public administration, but two different definitions. We're talking about, at best, those 550 and often only under 30, one 28,000 civil servants. I admit it's complicated, but it's good to know that there's a problem with numbers, or that we have more knowledge of the number of employees than we have a habit of comparing different categories properly. There were a lot of words about the state administration, or public administration, or officials, being lazy and being unedited, etc. The fact is that the motivation and editing system isn't working properly, but I'd also like to give credit to that small army of very dedicated and loyal public officials, thanks to whom, despite the system's disorientation, we still have a functional state. And I sometimes say dysfunctional, but trust me, I've been to places in the world where the state is dysfunctional, and Serbia is not it. We have to give recognition to these people and it is our duty to arrange a system so that we can distinguish those who are good workers, dedicated professionals, people who work on their completion, who try to treat every citizen the same way from those who actually live in a comfortable and quite unengaged state manger. That is our goal in the coming period. But I stressed at the beginning of this debate that this is not the reform we are announcing. We're making her. We're not going to make it easy, because it's a big job, but everything we've proposed today and all the changes we've talked about today are either on the way to that reform or they're needed to make the system that's here work better. In the context of this, if anyone has a dilemma about professionalization, I would draw attention to the fact that efficiency, or efficiency, goes hand in hand with the professionality of a public service if the systems of choice of perfection, the evaluations work well. If you freeze and disable the flow, legal flow of people, and on the other hand you don't work enough on their assessment, you don't call them to account, the choice gets politicised and the like, to you professionalization, or to make it more difficult, so to speak, flexibility in the choice of people can sometimes be a serious enemy to the effectiveness of the state. That is why it is very important to work on professionalization gradually and hand-to-hand, or shoulder-to-shoulder, with the effort to raise the full capacity for the state service to function properly. In this context, I want to draw attention to this infamous practice that has lasted many years, to the assistant, but also to other positions of officials in the position, to place people without competition, and that, although it was only possible for transitional provisions, whose duration was extended in the previous version of the law, may have been one way to politicise the choice, but the answer was that it was very difficult to take over and reform a state administration with systems that assume you have good competition, good choices, a good way of improving staff, objectively etc., and you don't actually have it. Now we're introducing one measure, which is the possibility of setting up a tasker who admits that you can't immediately have a professional chosen as you need at the moment when that need is created in a system that has to build itself up. I think it's a big step, because the time of duty of the performer is limited. The competition has to open after 30 days. In six months, it should be over. If the contest is still going on, it's gonna be another three months, but that means a total of nine months can be the performer of the duty. However, at the end of this period, which gives the necessary flexibility is being set up as a professional official. Our task is to amend the state service system, which we are working on now, and to prepare such a system of training for which this law has laid down basic institutional assumptions, to strengthen or activate some of the assumptions that have so far been contained in the regulations implementing this law, which have not been applied enough in practice, to ensure that this system really leads to a more quality and professional service. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be. It'll take time, but not forever. It's something I think it's going to do with the changes we expect by the end of this year in regulation. I expect changes in results, in practice during 2015. This law, such as it is, although it does not bring huge changes, brings an important step and assumptions towards professionalising the service and raising its quality. In this context, the question has been asked, and from now on I will only answer questions, so that it would be good to exist, to establish a training centre, and the question has been asked, or commentary, that it is necessary to assess civil servants, if we already strengthen their responsibility. We expect and are also foreseen in the Public Administration Reform Strategy and in the Action Plan for its implementation to establish a single species, we are now still workingly calling it the Public Administration Academy, which will allow this requirement for continuous improvement of civil servants to be implemented. We didn't put that right away in these amendments to the law, because if we want to do really good training, and that's the most important thing, the capacity for good training will also condition the quality of training and, ultimately, those officers. It is very important that we prepare the first capacity of the Ministry to do it properly. This ministry is now taking enormous steps to transform itself from one, so to speak, a peaceful regulator into not only one regulator, but also a manager and supervisor over the entire system of public administration. I would like to stress, that there are no confusions when further work is done or the amendments are discussed, that all changes, except for one, which concern the professional equipment for officials are completely formal, are just translated into points what was previously in the law. It means to comply formally with the Higher Education Act. There is one change that is substantial, which is that the professional training of an officer who performs the administrative procedure is somewhat reduced, i.e. the requirement for it, from 240 to 180 points, with appropriate experience. This measure reflects reality, the fact that in a small number of local self-governments, it is not really easy to find people with these qualifications to do the jobs that are necessary. There was still a question of past work. For the purposes of interpreting, so to speak, the transfer of past work, the employer does not change if the employee, or employee, moves within the same network of work. So, if it's about hospitals, whether they're republican or local health centres, the passing point for that need, where it's really important for people to be motivated, to move between different institutions and thus perfect their skills and expand their experience, the interpretation is that it's the same employer. Also, at the same level of government. So, between the municipal administrations, he's the same employer. Between local administration and republican, no. So that's it again. The final question – is it possible that there are not enough professional people, so that it is necessary to allow for the director or deputy director of a special organisation to be a teacher of a higher education institution, the answer is yes. It's about that there's one kind of knowledge that's rare enough. These are innovative understandings of the high-analytical type, the academic type, which are sometimes needed in the system of public administration, or state administration, and this is not a common phenomenon, but there is no reason to tie our hands and that we cannot use that knowledge in both places. Then the question arises – if so, why only higher education? Because it's a very specific kind of knowledge, and then it's hard to imagine another institution in which, or another type of institution where it's quite certain that there's no conflict of interest. The law normally allows civil servants to work up to 30% in other institutions and there is no problem that where it is really convenient and necessary, someone who has and acquires professional qualifications in institutions outside the state administration, we engage in state administration, with the approval of, too, the Anti-Corruption Agency, but this is a special type of case that is not really so unusual. It is common that state personnel are engaged as lecturers and vice versa. There were still misunderstandings when it comes to advertising in the public voice. It is possible, the law prescribes where the competition must be advertised, and certainly if there is a need for it, regardless of what the additional costs represent, the competition authority could also publish it in a public vote. Then, when it comes to telephone interrogation, it's not about questioning, it's about the candidate, it's about the phone communicating on the course of the competition. This is about one final technical matter, which is that some candidate is informed that, let's say, he hasn't been elected, from which point on he's moving to count the time he has to appeal. So far, the fact that this notice had to be handed down to him in writing could have been the reason for an incredibly long extension of the entire competition procedure. I'm going back to what I just did. If we make professionalism and competition impossible, i.e. improving the quality of civil servants through competitions so difficult that eventually the manager of some bodies that need civil servants with certain qualities cannot manage the service, then we are actually calling for the law to be broken, or to actually provide resistance to professionalisation. In this way, the space for this big one is reduced, so to speak, by the cost of professionalization and the process of competition will be accelerated and we think it's one of those little changes that can mean a lot. I think I've answered all the questions with this, and I thank you very much for your attention and discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-05-0.u8586	We thank the ministers. I am concluding a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 3 to 6 of the agenda. This concludes today and continues Monday at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 101 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Miljana Nikolic, Miroslav Markicevic, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the 7th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE SPECIFIC ASSESSMENT. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the basis of a principled review on the draft Law amending the Health Insurance Act, I have also called on Professor Vladimir Djukić, Prof. Dr. Berislav Vekić and Doc, to attend the meetings. Dr Ferenc Vinko, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Gordana Pocanin and Bojan Potjevica, state officials at the Ministry of Health. You've received a bill from the government. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposer's representative, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, the health minister, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
