ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12875	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 94 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Alexander Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12876	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that our country's obligation to develop and improve relations with Serbs abroad is an obligation. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, and concerns the position of Serbs in the Republic of Albania. In fact, some 30,000 members of our people who are discriminated on all grounds, both in law and practice, are estimated to live in this country. The Serbian community, which has been living in this country for centuries, has been threatened with total disappearance, i.e. assimilation. Serbs, moreover, do not have the right to declare their national and religious status on censuses, which are held every 10 years in Albania. The question of what will we do in bilateral relations with the Republic of Albania, what will we do in contact with the international community in order to respect the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, which was ratified by Albania's parliament 10 years ago, but does not apply it? We believe that our government, and there will be opportunities for this in contact with the representatives of the Albanian government, should insist that members of the Serb community in Albania be given a free national and religious statement, to enable them to use the Serbian language freely and to highlight national symbols. All of this is not allowed, moreover, they are all listed as Albanians, their personal names and last names are Albanian. They are formally allowed to return their original names, but with a very complicated and expensive procedure, whose price reaches more than 1,000 euros. We believe that it must insist on allowing the Serb community in Albania to study in its own language in public schools of Albania, to allow them political representation in Albania's parliament, as well as at other levels of government. Albania should be asked to stand in the protection of cultural goods and the tradition of the Serb people on the ground of this country, and certainly talks on the conclusion of an agreement on the protection of national minorities between Serbia and the Republic of Albania, which would concern the protection of the rights of the Albanian minority in Serbia and the same protection of the national, cultural, religious and other rights of the Serb people in Albania. In Skadra and the town of Fier, located in central Albania, there are schools in Serbian, which are held in private facilities, with the help of the former Ministry of Diaspora and Serbs in the region, which are financed by such a project. However, this is obviously not enough and it is necessary to set up schools that will enable education in the native Serbian language of our people and that such programmes enter into the programme of the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia, of course, with an adequate conclusion of the agreement with the resorient ministries of the Republic of Albania. It is necessary to provide far more significant financial assistance to the work of the cultural and educational associations of Serbs in Albania, primarily the Association of the Serb minority Moraca-Rozafa, which is the representative association of our people in this country and that their work is financed continuously, so that this funding is consistent with the way in which the state of Serbia finances the work of Albanian minority organisations in our country. What is also significant is that it should allow 30,000 members of the Serb people in Albania who want it, that the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia can get by far simpler procedure and with far fewer administrative obstacles than it has been before. For the very end, it should allow for the smooth functioning of the SPC, which plays a significant spiritual, cultural and traditional role everywhere, even when it comes to Serbs in Albania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12877	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branko Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12878	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Health for an opinion on the inequality of two laws that have their own direct reflection on the day-to-day functioning of doctors, especially in the obstetric and gynaecological institutions. The first law is the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, and the second is the Law on Patients' Rights. In the first law, there is a obligation to give vaccines at a certain age, it is a predominant child population, and at certain intervals. Another law is the Law on Patients’ Rights, and it allows the patient to be able, if it is a child, parent or legal guardian, to refuse mandatory vaccines or medications if a parent or legal guardian assumes that it can have a negative effect on the health of a child or an adult patient. Here, as part of this issue, I would like to apostrophe the importance of vaccination. Vaccination is one medical fluid that saved many lives. Lately, we have practically one vaccination campaign, under parol – vaccine products from various multinational companies that aim only at making profits. A parent who refuses to vaccinate his child with mandatory vaccines does not only affect the health of his child but can also affect the health of surrounding children. Let's get back to everyday practical issues. A newborn baby in the first week of life needs to receive two vaccines under the mandatory vaccine law. The first vaccine is against hepatitis B, the second vaccine is against tuberculosis, BSZ. Based on good clinical practice guides, during these first week of newborn life, it is necessary for the baby to get vitamin K at that age as a prevention of bleeding in the baby. What's going on in the field between these two laws? Based on the guideline of good clinical practice, the baby should receive vitamin K in the first week of life, the parent rejects the possibility, the doctor listens to the parent, and after two weeks bleeding occurs in the baby. Whose responsibility is it? Is it consistent with a doctor who's obeyed a parent's request under the Patients' Rights Act? Is there a forensic judicial and legal connotation and responsibility for the parents who refused to give the child vitamin K or some vaccine? The third question here, no less significant, who will bear financial coverage during the treatment of the child? Financial coverage will be covered by the state health system. On the other hand, the sanitary inspector as part of the sanitary supervision when he finds that the child has not received the mandatory vaccine, writes the solution that the child must receive the mandatory vaccine. If a parent or legal guardian continues to refuse, the disposition of a sanitary inspector is to write a misapplication. At the end of my question, we have one inequality. The first Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases shows – mandatory vaccination. Another Law on Patients' Rights says – a patient or guardian or parent can refuse vaccination. If mandatory vaccinations are not carried out, a parent or guardian may pay the fine, cash. My question to the Ministry of Health that the current legal framework does not define precisely this matter, so I think it is necessary to bring these laws into line for a further period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12879	The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12880	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the last few weeks, at least in the media, have been the topic of the spilling of the "Stolica" mine at Krupnja. I have a question for the competent ministry and it concerns what the competent Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection will do and what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do to stop further pollution and eliminate the consequences of the ecological disaster? It is now already evident that the ecological disaster of the river Drina's spilling out of the Rudnik "Stolica" mine near Krupnja is an ecological disaster. As the Greens have been talking about it a few months ago, one of the consequences of the May floods was the spilling of the pit. Now we have in the drain of the river Drina, in the Adriatic, in Kostanik increased the contents of heavy metals. We have increased content of some other metals: iron, manganese, arsenic, lead, nickel, cadmium and absolutely devastated river Kostanik and Jadar. According to the data provided by the Environmental Protection Agency, we have the Drina River, which has moved from most of the first category to the third or fourth category. It's something that looks like a big grandmother canal and you can imagine what kind of pollution it's all about. So far, we have often criticised, as "Green", the Environmental Protection Agency, but now we have very up-to-date data and monitoring that the Agency has done at a high level. This is what we can praise, but regardless of the key issue is addressed to the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, the resolution was not completed after five months, and worst of all, the situation continues. We are in such a situation that we now have to cure the consequences, but we are not dealing with the causes. The causes have not been dealt with for three years and environmental disasters often occur when there is no environmental protection system. That's the problem the Greens have been pointing to for three years. When there is a historical heritage, and here it is evident that there is a historical heritage, which is a potential ecological bomb, such places in Serbia have several hundred, such as Kostannik. Serbia is now on the verge of a national ecological disaster. However, no one is concerned about it and no one is paying attention. We're going to have some new "Stolics" at Krupanj to distract the public. What worries is that the media and the public in Serbia depend on Belgrade and the Belgrade public. It was necessary for pollution to arrive in Drin, then in the Sava, and to threaten the Makish water source to wake Belgrade and to start reporting. As you know, Belgrade is not Serbia. Serbia is also out of Belgrade. Someone has to worry about Serbia because without a clean and healthy Serbia it is not worth Serbia to us. That is why we ask – when will the state establish a system for removing the cause rather than just solving the consequences? All these questions point to one single conclusion, and that is that no solution is possible without the establishment of an institution of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources. It's a missing mechanism. It's the concern of a state that's apparently missing in the last three years. I hope that in the next period we will find capacity, find enough strength and find enough wisdom to establish an institution that would deal with the independent and authentic protection of the environment, and after that we start solving problems and start solving the historical negative environmental heritage that this government has found, but just because we found it doesn't mean we don't have to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12881	Anybody else answer for a word? Anyone else want a notice? The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12882	I have one question for the Ministry of Education, but it can also apply to the Ministry of Sports, as well as to the Ministry of Labour. I got a memo from the High School of Sports and Health where they address, through me, the Assembly and say the following. "We address you on behalf of higher education institutions in the field of sports and students with an application to help solve the problem of obtaining work permits, i.e. the right to work by sports experts who have completed the process of education in higher education institutions that school for sport, in accordance with the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Sports, as well as other sublaws and regulations of sport international associations. This problem has been present for many years, and concerns football coaches who have gained more or higher education in accordance with the law in institutions whose study programmes in the field of sports have been accredited and recredited by the authorities of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and in accordance with the procedure and standards of the Bologna Declaration. These graduate students, who are now coaches and professors, some with years of training in football and football clubs, are deprived of the right to get a license to work in a work that has constitutional status and which the state is very interested in. In this way, for a long time, basic rights, human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, the right to work and to comply with domicile laws, the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Sports, Sublegal Acts, the Regulation on the nomenclature of the calling of the National Council for Higher Education, the Regulation on the nomenclature of Sports Interests and Calls, as well as the UEFA Declaration on the recognition of diplomas acquired at domicile educational institutions. “ For your information, these finished students during the course of the study had over 800 lessons from narrow professional football classes, of which over 350 hours of practical football classes, and just as many lessons from other scientific disciplines, significant for working with young people – pedagogy, psychology, medicine, physiology, in sports, IT, etc., which totals more than 1,800 classes of teaching. The finished students cannot get permission to work from the Football Federation of Serbia, even at the lowest level, it is the UEFA "b" licence, although UEFA explicitly in its convention and instruction, Article 2, Objectives 3) wrote: "Recognition of all national coaching diplomas issued in accordance with the set minimum UEFA criteria under the Association of Signatories", the minimum is 120 hours of teaching from these areas. They are asked to pay 500 euros and come to the training course, which lasts for 120 hours, to pass the exam for "b" license, and then immediately or later to pay even more 1.00 euros to pass the exam for obtaining "a" license. Sports, therefore football, are part of a system that has its own framework, as a constitutional category, which means that the state is interested in what is done in football, and in this case for people who work with athletes, especially with young people, because they are raised and developed through coaching work by young people. What is important is that children and young people under 14 have to work exclusively sports experts who have the right education, higher or higher, in the field of sport or physical culture, is confirmed by Article 25. The Sports Act, as well as Article 2. Regulation on the nomenclature of sports occupations and calling. Please suggest that regarding this problem, which is in practice much more complex than we have shown, you suggest resolving the most important issues in the context of this problem, and these are: to allow the right to work on students who have completed higher, higher schools and colleges in the field of sports, in accordance with the Constitution and with all the abovementioned legal and sublegal acts, the Convention and UEFA instructions and obtaining permits and rights to work, in accordance with their acquired professional qualifications, sports titles and levels of UEFA licences. It should be underlined that UEFA licenses "b" and "a" fall within our rules defined by our sublaw, the Regulation on the nomenclature of call and interest in sport; that the price of obtaining a labour permit is determined in accordance with the Law on Sport, with the consent of the Ministry of Sports and Youth, and that it is harmonised at the level of other sports alliances in Serbia; that, in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Competition, the issue of the status of institutions that will conduct education, training, training and granting work permits, which will address the long-standing monopoly behaviour of Serbia's Head of the Football Federation and the violation of the laws mentioned above in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12883	Time, MP. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12884	Madam President, I have a few questions for the government. First question for Minister Vulin. A group of 15 disabled workers in Kragujevac has been receiving no compensation for a year, although they have repeatedly asked the minister to respond to the situation. They had a decision to receive some compensation until they met the pension conditions and that decision was from over a year ago. However, they do not receive any compensation for over a year. It's a group of 15 disabled workers and Minister Vulin is certainly familiar with it. So my question is – what and when will it be done in the direction of regulating their status and allowing them to receive compensation that has been only a minimumer so far? The second question I have concerns the interior minister and the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. The question is for two of our colleagues, Mr Djukanovic and Blazic. In fact, they were observers in Donjek in elections that neither Serbia nor the EU nor Ukraine, and given our government and Mr. Vukic's policy to support Ukraine's territorial integrity, my question is – in which way, and was the government ever familiar with the departure of our two MPs as observers to Doneck and what consequences will allow these two colleagues to enjoy the next period and what will they do specifically about this situation? The next question is for the interior minister, Mr Stefanovic – when, within what time, will find people responsible for security failures at the Serbia-Albania game, to answer who allowed Bogdanov to enter the field and attend the game and later enter the field and challenge incidents, how is it possible that Serbia's MUP could not carry out a check on those present at the match and disabling people against whom there is criminal proceedings and who are also convicted of certain crimes? A question for Minister Verbic. Given his statement that it is best that Serbian students end up abroad and given the controversy that has emerged and that I do not know if it is true, that the suspected quality and origin of the doctorate of Minister Verbic, my question is – when does he intend to honor Serbian citizens with his resignation as soon as possible? A question for Minister Selakovic – what and when he will do about the findings and opinions of the Anti-Corruption Agency in which he was found in a situation of conflict of interest and in fact made it impossible for people close to him and who were with him in the ministry to be elected to judicial and prosecutorial functions and whether he, with the inability to agree with Serbian lawyers, would find a moral force to resign, for which no majority in the Serbian Parliament is needed. The next issue concerns Minister Kori Udovicki and local self-government, and the Ministry of Interior, the municipality of Stara Paz. In the municipality of Stara Pazova, Djordje Radinovic, nicknamed Jokej is the president of the municipality, who has been convicted multiple times, and has been prosecuted since 2009 for oil smuggling. The head of the municipal administration of Stara Pazova is Bojan Kovrli, in 2006 he was expelled from the police, where he worked as an inspector, abuse of official office, smuggling of cigarettes. Bogdan Miljevic, head of the SNS committee group at SO Stara Pazova, was fired from the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" because of malversions in the payment of tolls in 2008. Miroslav Jovanovic, director of the public company "The Municipal Residential Agency of Stara Pazova", the entrepreneur, graduated from the secondary agricultural school, the war route, in the August deadline, an average of 2.26, currently a student of the University of Belgrade Business School, etc., godfather of the municipality. Dragisa Lajovic, director of JP "Urbanism", graduate of the high school and Goran Vranjaš, deputy president of the municipality of Unity Serbia, are building a building in the centre of Paz illegally without even one paper. The number of employees in the Municipality of Stara Pazova, public enterprises and institutions from July 2012 to October 2014 has increased by 250 to 300 people. The amount of money for wages has been increased from 378 to 509 million dinars and Stara Paza Municipality has bought ten new official vehicles. So my question for the Minister is – in what way and does he have any chance of breaking this practice? The last question for Gredel, since citizens have not had drinking water there for months because of the construction of a mini hydropower plant - will the Minister of Local Self-Government and Minister of Construction, Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, do something to solve the problem of Grdelica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12885	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović, Sinisa Maksimovic, Vladeta Kostic, Milorad Mijatovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on drafts of the law referred to in points 3 and 4 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in the context of a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 3 and 4 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, I have called for meetings of Dr Vladimir Đukić, Dr Ferenc Vicko and Dr Verislav Vekić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Natasa Gudović and Zorica Marković, senior advisers at the Ministry of Health, Mira Kontic and Dr Nebojša Jokić, independent advisers at the Ministry of Health and Marko Pavlovic, PR at the Ministry of Health. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 3 and 4 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint review of the draft Law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Proposal for a Law on Health Documentation, records in the field of health care. Does the proposer's representative, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, the health minister want a word? The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12886	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Health Documentation and Registration Act in the field of health care shall be governed by health records, records, types and contents of health records and records, the manner and procedure of the management of a person authorised to keep health records and to record data, deadlines for the delivery and processing of data, the way in which data from the medical documentation of patients used for data processing, the provision of data protection quality, as well as other issues of importance for the keeping of health records and records. When we talk about health records, we think about the original or reproductive document that makes up the patient's medical documentation and basic documentation on health care, private practice and other legal persons. The health documentation may be carried out in writing or electronic form. The law determines whether health records and records in the field of health care are conducted in a unique manner in health institutions, other forms of health care, social protection institutions, institutions for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, medical professions which carry out certain health services and other legal persons performing health care in accordance with the law, which would be jointly referred to as health institutions, private practice and other legal persons, which the law provided for. That area was regulated by the Health Registration Act in 1998 during the former SRJ. Given the fact that an intensive development of health and information communication technologies occurred in the previous period, the need arose in a unique way to regulate the area of health documentation, records to monitor health and health needs in a more adequate, rational manner. In this respect, the reasons for the adoption of a new law are conditioned by the need to introduce improvements to the system of recording, processing, the way data is available, the quality of data protection, as well as the establishment of the basis for integrated functioning of the health information system. By creating preconditions for health records, the records are conducted in a unique way in health institutions, private practice, and other legal persons performing health care in accordance with the law. The introduction of information communication technologies in the practice of health care, streamlining access to health care by making the information available to healthcare professionals more comprehensive, affecting patients and their course of treatment, improving the treatment process and enabling healthcare professionals and associates to become more committed to the patient, and this also makes the patient more satisfied with the service provided. In addition to improving the quality of work of healthcare professionals and health associates, this also results in significant savings of financial resources that are currently defined for the management of health records, consumer material, which enables the redistribution of financial resources in the healthcare system. Regulation of health records, records as one of the priorities envisioned by a plan for the development of health care of the Republic of Serbia, the need to bring this law into line with previously adopted laws, which regulate the area of protection of personal data, patients' rights, as well as the regulations governed by the electronic document area. The efforts of the Republic of Serbia to bring the legal system into line in the area of health with established European and international standards of the European Charter of Rights of the Child, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and with adopted government planning documents, the Strategy for the Development of the Information Society in the Republic of Serbia. The transitional and final provisions of this law provide that the law begins with the application of 1 January 2016 and that within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law, all sublaws will be adopted. Health institutions, private practice and other legal entities will coordinate their legal acts, organisation and work with the provisions of this law within 18 months of the date of entry into force of this law and no later than 1 January 2020. Amendments to the Health Insurance Act. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to streamline and achieve efficiency in the work of the Governing and Supervisory Committee of the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund. In view of the real circumstances, and based on the results and effectiveness of the work of the Management and Supervisory Board, as well as in order to save the funds of the Republic Fund, it was concluded that a rationalisation of the number of members of these bodies should be carried out. The Governing Board of the Republic Fund shall have 21 members, while the Supervisory Board shall have seven members, which shall now be reduced to seven members of the Management Board and five members of the Supervisory Board. The proposed solution retains the participation of the most numerous categories of civil sector, i.e. the category of insurance workers, pensioners and farmers, as represented in all other social security organisations, such as the PIO Fund, the National Employment Service and others. The objectives to be achieved – representation of the representatives of the Government, i.e. the Ministry of Health as the mechanism necessary for the implementation of health policy, control of the dedicated definition and availability of the funds of the RS budget identified for compulsory health insurance, bearing in mind that it is available through the established right of the insurance undertaking, i.e. the adoption of acts by the managing authority. It allows for a faster and more efficient adoption of regulations in the jurisdiction of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, resulting in the exercise of the right to compulsory health insurance, a shorter time for the adoption of sublegal acts governing a number of issues concerning the content and scope of the obligations of health insurance and the procedure for the exercise of those rights of insurance undertakings. It affects the operational work of the managing authority in terms of appointment, session maintenance as well as decision-making. Improving work, significant decisions for the functioning of a mandatory health insurance system in general whose quality and efficient work provide conditions for all insured persons under equal conditions to be allowed to exercise the right to health care and other health insurance rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12887	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12888	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Presidency, Mr Minister, associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the fact that the separation from the gross national income for health care in RS is one of the lowest in Europe. However, despite the inherited problems of the past in the field of health care, I must stress that a lot has been done during the previous Ministry of Health and for the time being for the very short term of the new Ministry of Health and that progress can be seen. Since we know that any reforms, including reforms in the field of health, health care, health insurance, take time for them, that this is a long-term process. Unfortunately, we are also aware that citizens today are having a lot of problems with achieving health care. They're facing a variety of health problems. For us, SVM is extremely important to raise the level of services in the homes of health, public hospitals and for us it is important that it is one of the priorities of the Government of RS. There's still a lack of personnel in certain services. We know it's a problem to stop employment in public services. Some services may find it extremely difficult to organize continuous work and therefore have to wait for services, and waiting for services causes great dissatisfaction among those who need these services most, patients. We therefore believe that, in the near future, more attention should be paid to the organisation of work, the way in which the appointment is planned and the provision of certain specialist diagnostic examinations. It would be good to allow basic diagnostics to be available in all public hospitals. What we should also pay attention to is that it is not rare, unfortunately, that communication between different institutions of actors is very weak, not to say bad, or you at a low level. To return to a specific agenda and two proposed laws. It is widely known that the previous period has seen developments in both information technologies, communication technologies and health. The reason for the adoption of the new Health Documentation Act, the health records in the field of health care, as we have heard and as logical as this is today, is that this area is managed in a unique way, and all to monitor the health and health needs of the population of the Republic of Serbia in a more appropriate way. It is done, no matter what some think it is technical law, it is an extremely important fundamental law that should bring into order an area which, unfortunately, has not been arranged in recent years. This bill provides professional normative frameworks for a better and more integrated information system in, hopefully, the near future, that we do not have to wait until 2020, it is some deadline when certain things should be done. The aim is, as we have heard from the Honorable Minister in the opening presentation, improving planning and efficient management of the health care system, as well as the collection and processing of data related to the health status of the population and functioning of the health care service, and all of which, of course, is to rationalise, or rationalise all available resources in the healthcare system. It is generally known that keeping health records and records is an integral part of the professional medical work of health institutions and healthcare professionals, but what we must not forget is that patient data, i.e. data from medical records, are particularly sensitive personality data. That is why health institutions, both state and private practice, are obliged to collect and process patient personality data in such a way as to ensure the exercise of rights, both on privacy and on the confidentiality of personality data. Furthermore, state institutions and also private practices are obliged to keep health records and records, whether in writing, electronic or other form, making sure that their useful value is maintained. What is significant is that this law specifically determines that, under the premise of the performance of health care activities, that is, the removal from the register is required to submit health records and records to the archives. The obligation to keep medical records and patient records from unauthorized access, any insight and various abuses has also been established. The coverage of patient information and the course of treatment that will be available to healthcare professionals in the future is extremely important, since this should really improve the patient treatment process itself and allow better contact between doctors, medical professionals and patients, i.e. the time available for working with patients themselves, as they expect and which should cause greater satisfaction for patients provided with a healthcare service. The integrated health system of the Republic of Serbia, mentioned in this law, is extremely important. It should develop and organise to plan efficient management of health care and health care systems, as well as to collect data that are extremely important, which we do not have enough, because we do not have a real picture of the health situation and the processing of the same data in relation to the health condition of our population. We are aware that today, without information technologies, nothing can work. It is therefore important that this information system is adequate and should provide timely accurate information of exceptional importance for decision-making and effective implementation of activities. A developed integrated health information system is the basis for what we expect, what is called an electronic medical file. The electronic medical file is a source of data from the basic medical file, which should be conducted exclusively in electronic form, on the patient and which combines all health data from the importance of the long-term health condition, in order to make patient treatment more successful. The bill that we are discussing today, which is before us, further provides for a book of records used in determining a particular disease or condition, and I define it in more detail, as well as providing certain health services. What I must especially praise here, for the first time in our legislation, has entered into the proposal to keep books of records and to suspect child abuse, abuse of women, abuse of the elderly. We know that the previous law is old, but it is important that these categories were mentioned and that they were taken care of in this proposal. The obligation of health institutions, private practices and other legal entities is prescribed to make up, on the basis of health records and records of both individual and aggregated reports submitted to the competent institution, i.e. the Institute of Public Health, as well as the RFZO. The obligation to keep a register of persons with illnesses or various conditions of greater public health significance is prescribed. It is interesting that this part includes obligations and keeping registers, among other things, for those who are in the biomedical assisted fertilisation programme, which is of great importance when we know unfortunately that the number of people in Serbia, including Vojvodina, is constantly falling, that we have a problem with birth, and based on statistics, we are aware that almost every seven or eight couples in Serbia have problems with sterileity. The Institute of Public Health should pool data from the individual and aggregated reports provided by competent institutions, i.e. public health institutes and form appropriate databases. In addition to his obligation to deliver these united reports to the Ministry of Health, he is obliged to give them to the public. The public needs to be informed about it. In the next few minutes, I will base myself on the second bill, in fact, the amendments to the Health Insurance Act, which, as we heard, refer to a reduction in the number of members both in the legal and supervisory committee of the RFZO. Yesterday, on the Health Committee, we heard from the Honorable Director that the term of office of the Management Board had expired and that it is therefore important to adopt these amendments as soon as possible, so that they are elected under a new law, or less. The number of members of the Management Board is reduced and this is similarly completed, i.e. changed in the case of the Republic of the PIO Fund. It is good that this will lead to a rationalisation of funds, in fact, savings will be achieved on the Fund's financial plan. The proposed changes should, in fact, contribute to improving the work of the RFZO itself, which is an extremely significant factor in the decision-making of the compulsory health insurance system and the effective work of the RFZO should contribute to enabling all insured persons under equal conditions to exercise the right to health care and other rights and health insurance. In any case, we believe that raising the availability of health care quality is the active participation of citizens themselves in the care of health care, particularly in terms of their full information on this, certain freedom of choice, the degree of decision-making of impact on their own treatment of exceptional importance and importance. Prevention, which is the first step towards the successful treatment of certain diseases, is also necessary. This makes it very important that health institutions do not lose sight of their obligation and implementation of preventive measures, raising the awareness of people, the public, providing health services at appropriate intervals. Patients are entitled to appropriate medical services to preserve and improve their own health, prevent, suppress and early swelling of the disease. To conclude, the SVM parliamentary group certainly supports long-term strategic planning, systematic decision-making of matters and this bill is one of those, thus supporting your efforts, Mr Minister, and the efforts of the Ministry of Health to pass these two proposed laws. We are of the view that in the future, you may need to make other necessary laws even more effective and more energetic, but we are working on how they are implemented in practice and that they are also being done to punish law enforcement in practice. I really thank you for your attention. I hope that in the future, as you, together, will be able to solve many more health problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12889	I thank you, Mrs. Kovac. The word has a folk letter from Dr Ljiljana Kosoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12890	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues, is today ahead of us of the adoption of the Health Documentation and Records Act, and this is one of the priorities, given the unedited nature of this issue. Otherwise, the assessment of our parliamentary group is that it is a good law, which is essential, which is applicable and sustainable. This law has long been needed for us, given that in the previous period there has been an intense development of health and information-communication technologies, as well as the need to organise this area in a unique way in health, and so far it has been followed by laws that are even 30 years old. The Law on Health Documentation and Records, passed as early as 1981, then in 1998, with some minor changes. So, what's been going on so far in practice? Many health institutions were in big trouble. However, health institutions that had passed or were in the accreditation process had to manage for themselves to deal with this problem, in line with the claims and newspapers reported in the meantime. What, though, led to what? It led to an inequality in the conduct of health records in our health system. This law regulates health documentation and records and, most importantly, we consider it necessary to mention the five principles on which it is regulated. First of all, it is the principle of obligation, because it is also the legal obligation of every healthcare institution, including health workers and associates, to conduct in a consistent manner medical documentation. Then, the principle of proportionality and purpose, ensuring that data in health documentation and records are adequately used for the precisely prescribed purposes and for the appropriate scope. The principle of data quality - rational use of available resources, as well as the principle of protection of personal data and compliance of this law with previously adopted laws relating to the protection of personal data, patient rights, as well as the regulations governing the field of electronic documentation, as well as documents and electronic signature. The bill correctly defined those three main areas in the field of health - medical documentation and records on the health services provided and the health status of patients and the population. It is then also used to monitor environmental risk factors. It was these problems in the environment that caused us great problems in the past due to inadequate leadership, and even some failures occurred. Then, the third large sphere is also medical documentation on personnel, equipment, space, medicines, medical means and information-communication technologies. The proposal for this law, in addition to the type and content, defines both the way and the procedure of carrying out this medical documentation, as well as the persons authorised, the deadlines for the delivery and processing of data, the way data are available, data protection and data storage, and at the end of the criminal provision for health institutions which do not respect it. What do we get by passing this law? In addition to improving the system of recording, processing, how data are available, ensuring the quality of data protection and data storage, establishing the basis for integrated functioning of the health information system, what does this integrated functioning of the health system mean to us? First of all, there are also conditions for health documentation and records to be conducted in a unique manner both in health institutions and in private practice, in health institutions from primary to tertiary levels. This also means - when the system is fully in place, that one day we can have this advanced patient monitoring system, both in the state institutions of our chosen physician, and if the same patient appears in private health care, as well as monitoring patient data, starts from primary, secondary, to tertiary levels. This system plans to improve the planning and efficient management of health care systems, so in this case it would not happen to us, as we had in the previous period, if we didn't have the age structure of the staff, that one minute we would lose our vital specialists, that we had medical equipment in some medical institutions, and in others that the equipment was not used. So this tracking system is going to have one more complete insight into everything that the healthcare system needs. The collection and processing of data related to the health status of the population and the functioning of the health services is also important as well as the improvement of the reporting system, the alignment with adopted government planning documents and the harmonisation of the legal system in the area of health with established European and international standards in this area, as well as the documents, as well as the improvement of the system of reporting of international health organisations, because, in the previous period, just because of the irregular reporting and inadequate records, the failures that gave a bad picture of our health system, I think even worse than it is. As regards the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, we fully agree that it is necessary for the Management and Supervisory Board to be more efficient for work and that there is better control of the funds, which also ensures a reduction of the Management Board from 21 to seven members and the Supervisory Board from seven to five. What our parliamentary group is especially looking forward to is that it is here both in the board of directors and in the board of directors, one member, one representative of pensioners and farmers. I think that you and how important it is because they will be able to directly influence the amendments to the Health Insurance Act, and from the right place, because farmers and pensioners are also one of the most vulnerable categories in our society. In Voting Day, the Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia will support changes to the law and the adoption of the two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12891	Thank you, Mrs. Kosoric. The word has Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12892	Dear Ministers, distinguished co-workers of Mr. Minister, esteemed Vice President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, when we have a story in Parliament, a debate on the laws of the area of health, citizens are very closely following what and how we make decisions and what we say as an argument. I must say that yesterday's session of the Health and Family Committee actually painted the real importance of access to such important laws as we have on the agenda today. For the first time since I was in this meeting on the Health Committee, we have unanimously assessed that the proposed legal matter is extremely necessary for Serbia to regulate the health system, to make it easier to use health services primarily for our patients and, of course, to simplify it, and to make it more serious for all those who work in the health system, in which more than 120,000 of our fellow citizens work. The question of who is covered by the Health and Health Documentation Act in the field of health care is, in fact, a question that explains what entities in this country are dealing with health care. These are primarily all health institutions from a network of health institutions, it's a private practice, and they're all institutions and entities dealing with health care, and they don't really belong to the health system. So these are these other legal entities dealing with health care in social-type institutions, in detention units, everywhere there are hospitals, wherever any medical preventive diagnostic, therapeutic or rehabilitation procedures are carried out. In that sense, the law was surprised as a consequence not only of the inadequate, due to the past time of resolution on the legislative plan of this issue, for over three decades, so the old law was something that in one way adequately regulated these issues. This is a law where the tooth of time simply demanded that we must bring it, but on the other hand, the fact is that the development of new medical content, in terms of what is happening to our citizens, to all of us, the development of new diseases on the one hand, but also new technologies and information procedures, has required a new, unique system that will, in a very good way, connect very important institutions dealing with health care at the republican level. What may be one of the most important components, is that all the principles, the basic principles contained in this law and the obligation, and the proportionality and purpose and the editing, the collection and processing of data, the quality of data as well as the rational use of available resources, are the key to making it more economical, simpler, and by recording everything we call a database for anyone who in any way has contact with healthcare, simplified at the state level, at local levels, providing health care and health services. The health records and records shall be kept by writing data under this law into health records and support documents for keeping records, and individual and aggregate reports shall be drawn up from the basic health records and the records of the auxiliary means of keeping records. What does that mean? This means that each institution, each unit in private practice, anyone who deals with health care based on medical records and documentation, must make up individual and aggregate reports and deliver so far unfortunately to the sleeping public health institutions that have long been not engaged in those tasks for which they are established by the State, and that they are based on the reports they have received, the composition of the programmes for all those segments that make up the health system. For both space and equipment, and for personnel, and for sanitary material, both medicines and information technologies that should be applied to propose this to the Ministry, that the Ministry, of course, and the minister of its proposals in relation to all these government proposals are considering and that the state actually stands on the basis of good records and databases behind certain programmes that will improve health care. Where's the RFO then? It's a very important link. It should finance the health policy adopted by the government, and therefore the amendments to the Health Insurance Act and the adoption of this law are actually very complementary today. For the Fund's Management Board, it is more than important that representatives of those who allocate funds for the Fund sit there. And we, in fact, in this reduced operating number of seven, have so far been 21 members of the Management Board, a truly inappropriate number, we will agree, among them seven, besides the four representatives of the state proposed by the minister, we will have a representative of the agricultural insurance company, representatives of those who are employed and living from their work, in a working relationship, representatives of pensioners. Such a quality composition of the Management Board actually reflects the structure of those who need to wonder how money will be distributed in order to realise the health policy brought by the minister and the RS government. It's a law that will seem to solve the form and contents of the document and the records. But about the law that will and how to give the possibility of 23 public health institutions, which are institutions for health protection of Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad and 19 other institutions that are mainly distributed in the environment, will allow them to, in accordance with both the real situation in health and of course, declared views and documented views of preventing valid, early diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation, etc., and, in accordance with their financial potential, propose a programme of ministers to decide at the level of the Government on health policy. Health care authorities shall be established to the following groups of health records and records. First of all, they are focused on health services, on the health condition of patients, and on the state of the population. The issue of public health and the state of the population as well as complete documentation and records related and has a more massive character for health care in Serbia is extremely important. The second large area is health documentation and records accompanying environmental risk factors. You know, environmental risk factors stemming from a possible water failure, unfortunately, are the only thing for us to think seriously about when there's a carnage or something that makes us see how many public health institutions and all those who deal with these issues, land issues, water, air, radiation radiation, issues that actually act as environmental risk factors, how directly they are related to health and how significant they are. Health records and records relating to personnel, equipment, space, medications, information communication technologies are a special topic and documentation of the part that Elvira was talking about, and it comes down to the file among other things, are very useful. What's more important in this law? What's important to the citizens? Citizens are interested in how long it takes, how much a document is kept and who can keep it, the medical document, both in written form and in electronic form. For example, according to the text of this law, medical records and the history of the disease are kept for ten years after the death of a patient or 90 years after opening. The birth certificate is kept permanently as well as a dental chart that often has forensic significance and that is why it is kept for so long. The registers as well as electronic data are kept on a permanent basis and can thus be used as a basis for scientific and research work as required by the clinic. This connection between scientific and clinical research is also important from this aspect. Health institutions, private practice and other legal persons are obliged to collect and process data, and to process and form appropriate databases in public health institutions register certain documents, i.e. registers of mass and all those diseases that have a public character. The right to privacy, as well as the right to confidentiality of patient personality data in this law, is in a very subtle way in line with the law governing patients' rights and the law governing the protection of personal data. The combination of these three laws actually speaks about that health is in other policies and that the World Health Organization's view that without health in other policies, and even on the legislative plan, it is not far from Serbia, and it is indeed one of the positive elements in the analysis of this legislative activity. As for medical records that may always be the subject of abuse, there were questions on the Committee yesterday about what is going on with the medical institution, with private practice, with some other form of work in health institutions when it ceases to exist, then what happens to medical records? This law makes this clear and says that the documentation is kept in the public archive, in accordance with the law governing archive construction. The duties of data storage competent healthcare professionals and associates may be released only on the basis of the written consent of the patient, or his legal adviser, or only after the decision and decision of the court. As regards the methodological principles used in relation to definition, nomenclature, classification, ciphers, ministers, under this law, decide on this, and the proposal is given by institutions for public health. A health institution, private practice and another legal person is required to establish an information system that represents a comprehensive set of technological infrastructures. So both network and software and hardware components, then organizations of people, human resources. All data must be processed in quality under this law, stored, transferred and displayed, or used as information to correct the health status of the nation and individuals. The integrated health information system serves planning, thus also management and health care and health insurance. Therefore, it goes into those life pores of health care and networks of health institutions and private practices and other legal persons most directly concerned with the health of each person individually. It's a good thing there's a fairly realistic deadline for the application of this law. The minister is scheduled to adopt a sublaw act within 12 months, while institutions, private practice and other healthcare entities are harmonising their own act and starting to implement the law in 18 months. It is a fairly realistic deadline and with the satisfaction that, with the law on patients' rights, the law on the protection of persons with mental disorders and this law, we will be analysed both in the region and in Europe as a country dealing with modern legislation and the necessary legislation for the 21st century and for the future. I express great satisfaction that the SPS parliamentary group with great satisfaction will also vote in the voting day and in the law that deals with the issue of records and medical documentation and amendments to the Health Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12893	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Dr Branko Djurovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12894	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honored Representatives of the Ministry of Health, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the reasons for the adoption of the draft Law amending the Health Insurance Act, where two members, Article 222, and Article 225 lie in the crucial fact that the rationality and efficiency of the work of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of the RFZO need to be increased. As my esteemed predecessor explained, the current law spoke of the Governing Board of the Republic Fund having 21 members and seven members of the Supervisory Board. As far as the numbering composition of this Management Board is concerned, it has been a massive formation which has been difficult in this physical sense and, as far as some decisions are concerned, there have been some problems. The new law provides that the Governing Board of the Republic Fund now has seven members, and the Supervisory Board has five members. Of the seven members, four members are set out on the proposal of the current Minister of Health, on a proposal from the Government, and the other members are practically proposed, so that they adequately present civil structures, i.e. the corresponding population structures of insurance undertakings, in such a way that they are adequate for other social security institutions as well. I think about RF PIO and the National Employment Service. The Republic Fund PIO also has a board of directors that has seven members and under the same scheme as the current proposal, the same four members are proposed by the government. The National Employment Service has also a reduced board of nine members, four members were proposed by the respective government ministries, with the fifth member of the Management Board of the National Employment Service, according to the Statute of the Service, being the director of the service. What do we get, practically, with this proposal? What is less apostrophe here, not only do we have rationality, not only do we have increased efficiency, now for the first time in recent times the state, or the Ministry of Health, actively participates and has an instrumentation to carry out the basic postulates of health policy, according to the Statute of the Ministry of Health defines the basic postulates of health policy. Now with this proposal, we have a situation that can actively implement these postulates, because it becomes a dominant factor in the work of the board of directors. Whether it's good or bad, we can say the first finding, that it can be sprayed, but I am deeply thinking and thinking that in this way, the Ministry of Health and the Government are given the opportunity to manage without some dissonant tones according to their health policy which can now be implemented and regarding the work of the RF WHO. Have the other insurance populations been ignored? No, I don't. We practically, as far as the other three members are concerned, have represented insurance companies who are employed, who are pensioners and also, as regards the RF Management Board and representatives of farmers. In this way, as the RF WHO is conceived, we are now from a Bismarck model of RF WHO, going to some extent to the Beverly Health Insurance System, where the practical government has an active participation in the process of developing and implementing the policy to be implemented by the RF WHO. I know that there will be further discussions on whether, as far as the dominant number of members of the RF Management Board are concerned, there may be some irregularities? But if we have a basic idea that the health policy of the Republic of Serbia should be implemented in the most meaningful and fastest possible way, I think this is the right model, although there is room for further discussion on this subject. As for the second law, the Law amending health records and records in the field of health care, we should say that this single law amends two previous laws. The first law, it is the Law on Health Protection Records, which was promoted in 1981 and the last revision was made in 2005. The second law is the Health Records Act. It sounds a lot like these two laws, but they're different and this other law was promoted in 1998 and its last revision was in 2005. So, from 2005 to today, we have a vacuum of nine years in the course of this time interval, of course, the information technology perfected so that practically this now unique law is one big step from the previous period. I would just like to mention that this unique law is based on five basic principles: the principle of obligation, the principle of proportionality and purpose, the principle of protection of personal data, the principle of data quality and the principle of rational use of available resources. I wouldn't be too long on what has been said before by previous speakers, and here I would be apostrophe for the introduction of a single, i.e. integration health information system. It's something that will allow us in the future transparency and the public. This is what the European Health Consumer Index requires of us and this may be one of the strongest reasons why we have come to the last place in the past two years as regards the evaluation of the health system of European countries. The integrated health information system will give us the opportunity to do what we do well, and we are doing it safely, so that it can manifest in an adequate information way. What is interesting for our citizens was yesterday at a meeting of the Health and Family Committee, which is that for our citizen this integrated health information system will allow, if he specifically comes from the regional centre to Belgrade, the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Emergency Centre, that the documentation he carries with him will have some importance, and not that we practically repeat diagnostic procedures in such patients, through this informational, integrated system, we can practically get from regional hospital centres proper diagnostic procedures in the territorial institutions of our major cities. What I would also mention here as an extremely large benefit, I must say, are also criminal provisions. This unique law allows and allows us to have thirty of these criminal provisions, precisely because certain institutions have been put to sleep for the analysis of the data obtained, so that, practically, with these criminal measures, the system of evolution of all that is necessary under this law is implemented to control even though it is not practically done in an adequate way, to sanction it. So, suma sumarum, these two laws represent one step in the comprehensive reforms of the health system of the Republic of Serbia, so the parliamentary club of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote for these laws on the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12895	The word has a Messenger of the people, Dr. Blagoje Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12896	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens who follow the transfer of this assembly session, I will try to comment on these two draft laws, which are here on the agenda, that is the bill on health documentation and records in the field of health care and the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, which comes normally to the assembly building by emergency procedure. When we talk about the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care, my predecessors have already noted that currently in Serbia there are two laws dealing with this topic, this is the Law on Health Records and the Law on Registration in Health Protection. The need for the adoption of such a law stems from the fact that the development of information technologies and the need to organise health documentation and records in a unique way, the necessity of the adoption of this law, which introduces an integrated health information system. What's benefit in keeping this information system and the way you record all the data regarding the treatment of people in Serbia is that in one place we'll have all the health data on the person, i.e. The insurance company, this treatment is faster and more effective because we can use the documentation without the patient keeping it and bringing it to the doctor, so that the doctor can have a complete picture of what the patient has as therapy, what he has suffered from and what all the analyses have been done. Another benefit of information technology is the precise keeping of records of the course of treatment of each of the patients who report for medical help and can be used in a possibly done medical error and some failure to determine the actual condition. It's one of the benefits, so, health care monitoring. Thirdly, and not least important is the efficiency in the work of health teams in treating patients, because now doctors, especially in primary health, spend a lot of time on administration, which is lost by the introduction of electronic cardboard and electronic health books, means, electronic data management and it is one of the benefits of discharging such burdened teams of healthcare professionals. However, every innovation faces many challenges, especially when we talk about the issue of data protection and security in computerised information systems, given the provisions of laws which specify the way and way of reporting and information from health institutions, private health institutions, clinics, institutes and public health services to the Institute of Public Health established at the level of the Republic to Batut. So, a lot of people in that chain are passing information, having access to that data, potential abuses are possible, and it's very important to regulate the law of conduct and how to treat all that information about each patient individually. The basic problem to address this law is respect for the scope and quality of human rights, above all, the right to privacy and the right to confidentiality. The right to privacy is guaranteed by the Constitution in Article 42, which is the right to the patient's privacy. In addition to the right to privacy in the case of examination and intervention, it has the right to the confidentiality and privacy of information on family health, on the health status of the personal, family opportunities, during treatment, means, one of the two rights to protect this law and another right to confidentiality involves keeping patient information, his health, as a professional, i.e. It's an official secret. This draft law provides for reference standards to the Personal Data Protection Act adopted in 2012. As far as I have information, the new Bill of Law is in the process, and according to Mr. Rodoljub Sabic's comment, this law is flawed, it was adequate at the time when it was passed, but the new time is making new demands and it needs to be changed and it is expected, I imagine, that law has reached the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is very important because this law, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, is designed to, under one, include health data in the category of particularly sensitive data, which is very important for this law that we are discussing. Then, the data relating to the health situation are processed on the basis of the free consent of a person, unless otherwise regulated by law, it is the same covered by this law. Third, the obligation to notify of processing, so the patient's consent implies that he is informed of all data, reasons and circumstances for the collection of data. A very important item in this law is the way of archiving and protecting health data, with prior acquisition of the opinion of the Commissioner. This is governed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and by the Regulation on the protection of sensitive personality data. Now we've come to a part where there's a fundamental grudge. So, from what I've said earlier, it turns out that the Personality Data Protection Act is a roof law within which the provisions of this law should be moved. In order for the Personal Data Protection Act to be applicable, a government regulation on the protection of personal data must be adopted, which has not yet been adopted by the Government. Now we have here in the assembly debate the law we are discussing, which is based on a law that is said to be changed, because there are new moments and should be consistent with the time we live in. So the 2012 law is subject to change and is currently in the process. I'm afraid that by adopting a law like this, without the amendments that we have submitted, we're going to help make this law more correct, that is to make it more applicable, that the law will be undefined, and that very soon after the adoption of the Personal Data Protection Act, we're going to have to do an amendment to this law and we're going to have a new proposal and a new session. So my intervention with the Minister and the Proposer is to take our amendment seriously, because I think with these amendments this law, which is necessary, because if we want to have an electronic chart, if we want to have an electronic book, we need to have a law that regulates these relationships, and a way of keeping the data, to consider the amendments and to accept them. The second law we are discussing today is the Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. It refers to the Governing Board and the Supervisory Board, meaning members who speak about the Governing and Supervisory Committee of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. As my colleagues have already said, the Republic Health Insurance Fund is a fund that finances the treatment of insurance companies in the Republic of Serbia and is based on so-called. Bismark model. It is that all those who are working able to pay a certain amount and percentage of their income into a particular fund, and then, according to the needs of all insurance companies, that money is used. This right applies all the time as contributions are paid. The point is, everyone has to pay their contributions. It is our country that is either employed or secured through work-employed or, in turn, the state assumes for certain categories the obligation to pay for this participation in the Republic Health Insurance Fund. The Governing Board and the Supervisory Board are based on the analysis formed and are represented by representatives of those groups of the population who give money to the Fund, who fill the Fund, simply put, and these are - representatives of the workers-engaged, these are representatives of unions that have over 50,000 members, reference unions, they have 14 representatives; then you have two representatives from the private sector; two representatives from farmers; you have one representative from the disabled and you have two representatives from pensioners. That's 21 members. The government's proposal is that, because of rationalization, savings, it is reduced to seven members and that is fine. These categories, which I have all stated, can be reduced proportionally to seven, but the government proposes that of these seven members, four members be representatives of the government, and three representatives of the insurance companies, i.e. those people who fill that budget. So, the government wants to control the funds through the Management Board, because without the Management Board, the government's funds can't control it. So it's controlled by the insurance companies, i.e. Those people who pay money in the Fund. The government controls the republican budget, it's a completely different source of funding, and these funds are being controlled by those people who fill that Fund with these funds. This means that those who fill the Fund's budget do not have a decisive voice in control, i.e. In the use of these funds by the Republic Fund, rather than by the Government through its four representatives, and probably through the representatives of the Management Board, it is normal, since they have a majority in the Management Board, to elect the chairman of the Management Board from those four representatives to directly control the spending of funds. Someone says, "Yes, that's good, someone says, "It's not good. I don't think it's good. Three months ago, our esteemed colleagues, we had a debate about having extra money in the Republic Health Insurance Fund, 300 million euros, that's 30 billion, that it should be transferred to the pension fund. The only way to transfer that money from the Health Insurance Fund to a retirement background was by a congregation decision. The only congregation can do that. The government can't do that. If we accept a proposal from the Minister of Health to amend the composition of the Management Board, we allow the Government through the Management Board to directly control the money of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. That'd be fine, but it's a problem in the explanation of the finance minister. If you remember this debate in the Assembly, when we of the opposition said it was not good, that it was not good to download money to the Republic Fund, the explanation was that it was done on the basis of a more regular and rational spending of the Republic Fund's money, especially in public procurement, and that 30 billion or 300 million euros were saved. We've accepted it as something that's valid, but we have a different situation in budget rebalance. We have a situation that in the budget of the Republic Fund, 236 billion has been reduced to 220 billion. That would be fine, because it's the 30 billion that are scheduled at the annual level, but the justification for the reduction we have a linear reduction of all positions of the Republic Health Insurance Fund budget, because, according to the Stone, it was said that it was to strip itself of public procurement – sanitary, intrinsic material, medicines. They took off rehab here, too, so I'm not counting and I'm not wasting my time. So they took everything off linearly. It was logical to take off at the position of pay, a 10% reduction and the position of those goods that go to centralised public procurement. Let me remind you, there are a lot of doctors here, not all the good things used in treating patients on the centralized public procurement of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, are doing something also health institutions. So those positions should remain the same. Now it seems that it's not enough either, but it needs full control of the funding of the Republic Health Insurance Fund now. Should we let the government, past those on whose behalf we are sitting here, who are on the board of directors, make decisions on how to spend money in the Republic Fund? What can happen? At the time of the economic crisis that we are in, there may be an unbalanced redistribution of funds. Does this mean that what is not good in the centres of Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Belgrade will be less funded if we have less money to satisfy the centres? I make assumptions, doesn't necessarily mean I'm right. I'm just saying that we need to think very carefully about whether we're going to give a vote to this government proposal, because that's why we're depriving the right of those who give money to decide on spending that money. To change the structure – yes, to reduce the number – yes, and should we exclude the deciding voice of those who give money to decide on that money, or shall we give it to the day-to-day policy, whoever is in power? What we are bringing here now will last not only for the mandates of this government, but for the next and the next and the next and the next, so I am asking you, in further discussion, to take some of these thesises that I have put forward and possibly to amend the proposal. All right, rationalization, but savings, the justification of this bill, which will be done if the board has instead of 21 members has seven members, that doesn't hold water for me. At the very least, those people who are on the board, they're the ones who fill that fund budget. The government that's just about to have control over the board of directors by saying that they're giving money to the Fund, that, for those categories of insurance companies they're obliged to pay contributions, because they're contributing to the Bismarck system, they all have to pay, it's only a question of who's giving the money. For certain categories of Serbian citizens, the government is in charge of the budget, such are decisions, such are laws, that it gives money. I ask you to reconsider and in the discussion, we raise the best proposal that will be for the benefit of all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12897	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. Mr. Zlata Djeric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12898	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, we have today received two draft laws - Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act, where two members 222 and 225 are literally changing and a bill on health documentation and records in the field of health care. We usually call it technical laws that help one of these important areas, what public health is, and what health care is in Serbia at all, better and more modern. The first draft law amending the Health Insurance Act actually provides for these two members to change the number of members in the Management and Supervisory Committee. I fully support this change, because the number of members is being rationalised, the number is being reduced from 21 to seven on the board of directors and from seven to five on the Supervisory Board. Of course, this should result in significant savings, financial savings, but above all, should contribute to the efficiency of the work of both the board of directors and the supervisory board. What we also consider rational is that here the greater impact of the state on the functioning of the Republic Health Fund. Given that the budget is owned, I always say, the budget is owned by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who in one term confided in the Assembly and the Assembly chose the government to manage it. So we're all responsible for this, and that degree of responsibility shouldn't be something we should always be suspicious of. We should follow that. We have given trust to a government and expect it to work in the best interests of citizens, and if that is not the case, next election brings some new people. There's never been an ideal budget allocation. It's never enough budgets, and we'll always argue about it, how they should have been deployed. I absolutely claim that in Serbia everyone knows how to make a team, build a government and deploy budgets. Each individual does it in the best way, of course from its own angle. Therefore, the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, i.e. amending these two members and this new savings and a new offer New Serbia will support in the voting day, because we really want to see better results in a qualitative sense when this law comes into force. We also welcome that they will be representatives of the most dominant, i.e. the most numerous categories among the board members and that they will be able to directly influence health policy. As for the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care, we consider this law to be very important and we believe that, in accordance with the progress of modern technologies, it will enable what is very important in the health system, which is a more quality and faster flow of information. This law brings several significant quality changes in type and content in keeping health records, including in responsibility for this health record. Of course, specific deadlines and collection and keeping of documents are prescribed. Health records are a very important segment of a society. Health is one nation's most important resource, and this kind of record is very important in every sense. First of all, watchdog deadlines, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic spoke about it, are extremely important in the forensic sense as well. What is very important, the provisions of Articles 44 to 49, the basic meaning of the existence of the law is to ensure the availability of health data to all health system factors. In addition to the availability of health data, the quality of these health data is also relevant. Otherwise, the law declares, as we have recognised: the principle of obligation, the principle of proportionality and purpose, the principle of protection of personal data, the principle of data quality and the principle of rational use of available resources. In terms of this, we, as a parliamentary group, wanted to submit one amendment, but we overlooked the deadline, or one law is an emergency, and the other is not an emergency procedure and we failed to put it in the procedure and I will now, on good faith, suggest to Mr. Minister, and by consulting fellow MPs, above all, whether it is appropriate to propose it to be adopted as an amendment committee. The amendment refers to Article 37, where we have proposed that a new position of 4 is added after Article 3, which refers to the collection of documents, in the case of the entry of data in the manner set out in Article 3, the notice shall also be made that the data are entered in the health records and records received on the basis of the statement of the person from whom the data are taken. So we think it's very important, because it's important to make a difference later in the operational use of the data, when the doctor has the data he takes from the medical records, from the findings, from the experts' opinions, specialists, doctors, colleagues, and second when the doctor's face has some data that he also submits on the basis of a statement. We think it's important to keep that in mind. It will be a very important indication to the doctor in the follow-up to the disease and the patient. So, we suggested that if such an amendment could be later, and if you think it's something that would make a quality correction for this member, it would be adopted as an amendment to the committee. I said, colleagues of the profession think that would be acceptable. What has been particularly significant lately with the emergence of new diseases and infectious diseases, which have been recently unknown in our space, is gained by the weight of the provisions of Article 31, which defines the register of persons suffering from diseases of greater public health importance and this register of water institutions, i.e. public health institutes, to monitor and study the health status of the population, planning and programming of health care, as well as informing the public what is recently of exceptional importance. So, in terms of monitoring specific new diseases and diseases that are not known enough, those diseases that are precisely from the lack of education of citizens, the lack of information caused by unwanted reactions and being the subject of various manipulations, it is very important that they are defined by this Article 31, where they will be led in particular. Responsibility as a category must be maximumly individualised and this law is foreseen and we really welcome this, so that solutions in this law in terms of correctness are more than acceptable as regards the New Serbia parliamentary group. We believe that this law will contribute to modern access to the health system, to modern access to information that is necessary for the national health, health of the nation to be preserved in the best way. In voting day, New Serbia will support the proposed legislative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12899	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12900	Dear Ministers, colleagues, respected state secretaries, Professor Djukanovic, Professor Vekic, fellow Members and fellow MPs, dear Serbian citizens, today we have two proposals from the health sector that are very important, since they regulate some rights that have not been regulated in one place so far. I'm talking about the Medical Documentation Act, but I'll start with the first amendment to the Health Insurance Act. It is nice that you as Minister of Health, as a Republic Government, came to the Serbian Parliament with two laws, one of which is an amendment to the Health Insurance Act. I want you to know that today I have submitted a proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act, so both the opposition and the government are working to improve the quality of health insurance and health care. What all speakers were saying today in the afternoon debate on the amendment of the Health Insurance Act, and you yourself pointed out that there is a rationalization of the number of people on the board of directors, in the supervisory board, and that this is a good thing in order to rationalise this massive body. I'll say the same - wherever there's a possibility that at this difficult economic moment the number of employees will be reduced and that with a lower capacity one body works, that's something that's right and that's something that's acceptable. It is unacceptable for many republican boards to sit and stand with a large number of people who, in most cases, do not even have the qualifications to do some work on these boards, especially when we know that these functions have been paid. I have information that they went up to 50,000 dinars per month for the chairman of the board of directors and for members of the board of directors, which comes out over 100,000 euros a year. It is one saving when it is reduced and the DS parliamentary group supports it. What I don't think most people have pointed out is that now for the first time in the country, i.e. The Ministry of Health is taking over competences over the Republic Fund, given that in this reduced number of members and the Management and Supervisory Committee, the Ministry of Health will have an absolute majority. It will have the majority that it can make decisions and decide, which by the legislative authority is logical and legitimate. Since there is a majority, there is also support for citizens according to your political option and this is your political solution. As a citizen of Serbia and as an insurance company, I believe that the Republic Health Insurance Fund is slowly losing its meaning. It loses its meaning because, in years ago, 20 years ago, it separated from Serbian citizens, separated even from the health ministry and became one state in the country. If you give someone two and a half million euros a year, i.e. Serbian citizens spend their monthly health insurance expenditures and that money is controlled by one group of people, which is the group of people who were on the board of directors and supervisors, she decided on what health insurance priorities are, what are the priorities the hospital will receive from the scanner, which will give the hospital a magnetic resonance, etc. We have seen that the years behind us have not been very positive for the administrations, I speak in the plural of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, since citizens are increasingly unhappy with the way the Republic Fund works. This way, by changing the number of members of the Management and Supervisory Board, the Health Ministry directly assumes the authority. That's clear and it should be clear to the citizens. I ask that one question – what do we need the Republic Health Insurance Fund for? Then why should we, as citizens who pay our taxes to the state, charge our budget through taxes, add health insurance to the budget of the Republic Fund? If the state is now taking charge of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, what do we need with the kind of Republic Health Insurance Fund? Let us, then, have an item of free treatment from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and, in particular, be a item in the budget, a budget rebalancing and we have a clear view that all citizens of Serbia are health insurance and that they have opportunities from the budget to be treated, and from the budget of the Republic of Serbia to give funds to monthly tranches to clinical centres, health centres or hospitals across the region. I'm against it. I am not in favour of shutting down the Republic Fund, and I believe that the Republic Fund is something that is good and must be strengthened, that it really takes over the health care of the Serbian citizens' house and that it is trying to provide more quality and accessible health care to our insurance companies, to fight, Mr. Loncar, both for you and for me to ensure us. But without a clear reform, maybe this is the beginning of that reform, with a change and number and ingenuity in the Republic Fund itself, but without a clear match, with several participants in the game, since now the Republic Fund has a monopoly in its business, two and a half billion euros in spending in one way or another, 20 years back he's a monopoly in that sector, let's try to let them compete, that we have several health insurance houses that are going to fight to ensure you or me or the president of parliament, that they're fighting for the insurance company. It's something that citizens need and it's something that's a good thing, that in the coming period they think about it that way. I think that these changes can lead to the fact that if you are building a general structure of reform of Serbian health, now you have the possibility, since so far many ministers have not had the opportunity to see the spending of the Republic Fund's money, now with the supervisory and management committees that they have under the supervision of the Ministry of Health, it will be possible to do so. My message and wish is that in the next period we try together, as a government and as an opposition, to equalise the state and private health sector and that the Republic Health Insurance Fund recognises the private sector, that we can treat with our health book and with private persons, that all citizens and all insurance companies know what they have monthly from their health insurance. It is very important that when a certain amount of money is rejected monthly, not all of us are rejected the same, but that each of the citizens of the insurance company knows that he is monthly denied from the salary of 10,000, 12 thousand dinars, that he knows what he has monthly with his health book, and not like so far, that we are talking that health care is free and that health care is not free at all, that a lot of what is missing, that the health fund has practically not covered a lot of things and that there is this one imbalance of our wishes, from our appeals, as politicians, as health ministers, as a function of the opposition to the health sector, and that we see in part that a lot of medicines are missing, that we have a lot of waiting lists and that citizens, and not doctors themselves, are not satisfied with the way of treatment in hospitals, the conditions of treatment in hospitals. We have to change that. As for the second bill, I can tell you that I personally submitted several amendments to the bill. They're not revolutionary. They do not change, either approximately, or essentially, the law, which I think is good, and I believe that the DS parliamentary group will, in the voting day, if these few amendments are adopted, gladly vote in favour of this bill because, for the first time, it will place a number of years in one place and clearly specify the problem of keeping medical records, health records and introducing one new thing into Serbia's health system, which is the information system in all hospitals. I'll draw your attention to the fact that in the years, from the 1990s to 2014, many health centres directors, hospitals, health homes, self-initiatively, in order to improve their work in their hospital, in order to get some commission from this software company, have entered the independent procurement of certain patient tracking software. In most cases, I'd like it to be a wish, to improve the work in this one electronic sense of data keeping our patients. I leave one big know of doubt, one question mark, and a message to you to examine the procurement of many software, which is not functional, which is not compatible with the hospitals in Serbia. Now we have a very colorful picture where you in Subotica, Sombor, Bosilegrada, Babusniki or Nis have different software houses, you have different components that can't be compatible and can't follow. I also want to remind citizens that the European Bank's large money has invested in the management of information technologies in Serbia's health system, some 2007, some 2004, 2005, 2006. As a health system, we missed a golden time when we could properly install and build this information system in Serbia. I am not running away from the fact that in those years, when the DS was in power, it was responsible for some failures at the Ministry of Health that it did not run, but it was led by some G17 people, some G17 ministers who had so much respect for their health sector that they operated in some other countries and clearly showed us what health care was like in Serbia. What I'm trying to say is that it needs to be examined, because the huge money has entered for the introduction of information technologies in Serbia's hospitals, why do information systems differ from hospital to hospital, how are we going to get into a clear work with a single information system? Without a unique information system, without a system when I examine a patient in Nis, at my clinical center and do a scanner, or magnetic, do an ultrasound, and send such a patient to Belgrade, that there is no need in Belgrade to do a scanner, magnetic resonance, to take his blood for analysis, and the rest, which Mr. Minister, is working today. That, I won't say mistrust, that's one discrepancy and inability to compare the findings from different health centers, just spend the extra money of our insurance companies, spend the money of Serbian citizens, and also the bullying of insurance, harassment and our patient who has to be exposed repeatedly to X-rays, or ultrasounds, or blood extraction. There's no need. So, we need this information system to be truly unique and the question is how are we going to be able as a state, as the Ministry of Health to coordinate it in the next period and to have a truly unique system. What I want, I showed it yesterday and on the Committee, here's a yellow book, not a yellow book membership card DS, it's a health certificate for the vaccination of the World Health Organization. I was in Switzerland in 2001 or 2002, and there was vaccination against some diseases, against B-hepatitis, and that, at that time, was not a practice in Serbia, and when I returned to my city, to my clinical center, I needed to get a resection. They didn't even know what this was, and let's just say, where, in which columns to put it. That is why it is good to introduce this law with medical documentation, and that this law is in line with European and world standards, so that our citizens who travel abroad have identical identification medical records and cards. The next question, the same about these information systems, was discussed several months ago in the Serbian Parliament on electronic health books. Then in a debate with you, I was talking about an electronic health chart that is much more important, besides this health book and that the electronic health book itself cannot be functional unless it monitors the entire unique information system in our hospitals, and certainly that one electronic file. I think there are still some misunderstandings, at least to me, and I want you to explain to me at the end of my presentation whether we're going to have a unique electronic health card, and whether this electronic health book that's being announced at the end of 2016, that it's going to be in place, that it's going to be able to monitor and that it has a software ability to wash out all these documents in electronic form that we're talking about. In your bill of law, I've learned several shortcomings. I think it is despite saying that it is one of the better laws in the health sector, and I can say even in the very assembly of Serbia. I think it was a mistake to leave the medical records out of the hospital. Daily hospitals are something that the practice has shown that it is necessary for our health system and for the history of the disease for the daily hospitals to be seen as a problem, that it is missing in this law. I've done several amendments just by inserting daily hospitals into this proposal by a member of the law. I hope that you will accept this, given that daily hospitals are a place where many patients address for the diagnosis of some diseases, for minor surgical treatment and have shown themselves in Serbia, and in the world as one good option, not to hospitalize the patient for longer, but to do everything completely in one day, and with regard to documentation that you have no problems. We're all full of praise for keeping medical records and the time period to be kept, but I still have one small doubt about keeping that file. Since for 20 and a few years I've been working as a doctor at a clinical center and I've witnessed a number of painful scenes when one of the patients dies, that a lot of funeral companies finds out very quickly and offers that information to their relatives, so I ask where it leaks from? It practically leaks out of a health care facility. It is necessary that these data that you have stated should be kept for 10, 20 years, to see the possibility of keeping that data, not to leak information that is very important, not only the death of a patient, but you have a lot of disease in patients where information girls, so certain pharmaceutical houses or houses with orthopaedic aids, appear to convince the patient's relatives that their product is best. I'm sick of information like that that is to get girls out of our ranks. How do we protect that information and sanction people, because we need to know who's working with that data, where those data are being stored, and then there can be no confusion that it's leaked from somewhere third or fourth. This will mostly be said by a nurse or one of the hygienists, no, it must be known who keeps the data and that it is clearly said to be sanctioned afterwards. I'll finish my presentation today, save a few minutes for the end of the debate when I hear your statements, say a few more things. I will end up hoping that in Serbia we will enter into a serious reform of RFZO, where the citizen patient will be first and where the insurance company will fight for the insurance company, and not like this, have a monopoly and automatically receive funds that are not small or small, and together we will all in this room dream that with our health book we can treat with private people and that we do not have a painful situation in state clinics where doctors transfer us to private offices, in order to gain material benefit. I do not object to private health, I advocate strengthening private health, not in the way it now works, not in the way that corruption is left at one point and legally. I advocate that health care be equalised, state and private and that with the reformed Republic Fund, citizens of Serbia can also be treated with privates, as well as with a state doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12901	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12902	The Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of both legislative proposals and I would like to pay more attention to the law on documentation and records. It is greater, more extensive, more significant, not because it will be the first law of that kind or the first legal regulations in the field of health care, but partly and health insurance, but because it will unite into the effects and norms that had two earlier laws on which it worked, and that it will bring in a series of necessary newspapers. When I'm talking about this law, it's quite clear that those doctors who are watching have the feeling and need to follow up when something's going on, some new paperwork, new records, a new nonmedical obligation they're really taking with the reserve. It is up to us to show them by reading the elements of the law that the time is coming to rid them of the fear of excessive administration and that it is even put into the principle of this law, rationality and efficiency. So, doctors, health workers, associates will have more time to deal with the patient after the introduction of the norms this law provides. Why am I pointing that out? Because from the moment of a major demarcation and the introduction of a system of new values created at the beginning of this millennium, with a change of government, a view to life, to the realization of basic goals, vital health parameters, it was simply that the then appointed directors of large hospitals, clinical centres were found in a legal process, because at the same time a method of supervision of the work of doctors and medical staff was developed to provide as quickly as possible and as much health services as possible, under the threat of a later defined care provider of the patient's rights would be subject to some disciplinary procedure. This then forced them, so they began to make internal acts, internal communication writing, first with consultants along with therapeutic units within organisational continents, so you will often find yourself in many clinical centres and hospitals on a memo or outside the memoir of printed papers that have the purpose of communication, even quoted parts of the Health Protection Act, a famous member who sits in front of the seal before the patient sits on the chair. It is time to get rid of this, in a unique way, to introduce an accurate description of the documentation, the documents available, the forms to be used in paper, and later in electronic form, to enter relevant data and in accordance with the principles that are respected, it is something that will ennoble or give meaning to the adoption of this law. So that message for them is that we are changing exactly that and that excessive administration that anyone who is primarily, curatively or in preventive services, is also directed at the part in which they are concerned and the treatment runs away from the register, from the protocol, from this, from that and mostly to the nurses again, or other healthcare associates, those who by nature things do not involve in providing services to the patient. It will now do so so that it will be all unique for all Serbia, for all healthcare providers and private practice and state institutions, uniquely and usablely so that after integration and processing in health services, it can later be shown to the public in the central Batuta, which will be able to draw relevant conclusions that will benefit the government, the ministry, the whole state, to the citizens to create an appropriate health policy. I would now move on to what I have said that I would somehow like to go through the law and see what this law, in fact, is new that sublimes solutions, repairs, corrections, part and out of date solutions due to new technologies, new therapeutic options, due to a different way of guaranteeing the patient's right to fast-acting health care, etc. It therefore enables the exact identification of the type and contents of the data to be entered, to be entered, to be entered, to be introduced, to the extent that they are fast, to be effective, to write an appropriate report and to whom to send it, to do so, to be preserved and protected from abuse and to be available with the consent of the patient, the data it gives itself, and in its interest only when the patient is seeking protection, assistance in terms of direct treatment or in terms of providing a prognosis for its future treatment and its availability to different levels of health care. You don't just think about going to the end of this bill for a short time where electronic documentation will allow the patient that if he has only, we'll see, recognition mechanisms, which will only be clarified, the chip, based on which it can be entered into the document, he won't have to have complete documentation of what he is suffering from, what he has, necessary emergency assistance in any part of Serbia at any medical facility. It will be possible to obtain the relevant information if the patient is unconscious, without an adequate relative who follows him and cannot provide and delay the time, accumulates the procedure of taking basic data, at least which blood group, that I do not speak further, or that all the risks the patient carries with him. This when it is integrated somewhere, entered, processed, started with a parent document such as primary health care, medical records, what is the history of the disease as a document in stationary institutions and other records models will be some unquestionably beneficial and advantageous and therefore it is something that needs to be supported. I understand all the MPs who are willing to support this. I have already described about the purpose of this way, if we will also monitor the health condition of the individual and find such documents. We'll monitor the quality improvement, monitor the efficiency of the implementation of the programs we have. If we set ourselves a goal of reducing the waiting lists, we have a record of the waiting list. We'll follow up on a record that's unique now. I'm going to have to make an effort and now to finally get into that detail again, recommending to Batutu Institute, the Central Republic Health Protection Institute, that when creating such programs and such models, such patterns have a consultation in their commissions with people who deal with a specific problem of not having to happen as we do now, we have a demand of the fund, as well as a dialysis centre that keeps records regularly, asking for a daily patient on dialysis after each dialysis three times a week to run a huge number of data, a retail number of used buffers to clear the needle access, wipe out the intervention field, to say the number of milesage, I say, but that's the gear that shows how many hours the machine works. Imagine, it goes three times a week and each time you put 46 thousand 203 minutes and 40 thousand 263 minutes to do such a “time play” and such a mustra where a nurse won’t have to go on foot on an uninterrupted basis to enter a huge number of data every day, and then a summary report, quarterly, half-yearly and annually where she drags away the work of nurses, she can’t do that, of course, from the care they would provide. I see in these suggestions and a solution to one of those problems. That's what happened before. Now that's something sharpened. New electronic patterns and new enquiries have come. On the other hand, there has been an improvement in treatment conditions. The fund did a great job, and it's a very expensive branch and it costs a lot. They're very high-quality methodologies that are used. All thanks to good monitoring, it has been found that there is a shift, that new technologies and new preparations are introduced, new forms of treatment, more modern methods, but to relieve operatives to do so, even if it can be a "buying landscape" from patients carrying identical personal data which are part of the basic medical documentation and which will also enter such periodic, or daily and aggregated work reports. That's what happened before. It was working differently. It used to be just summary reports, how much dialysis per month, how much per year. Now it's working daily, so if you have 160 to 200 patients in the center means you'll be half of it a day. It needs some 160 names and a last name, appliances, counting hours, etc. spent chemicals to sign it up. I believe that, when it comes to making before they bring the Minister to the Commission of Reference, who will probably have to make a proposal for such a pattern, such ideas, such as the one the minister puts into circulation, and the time to do so, to consult the profession and that it is one of the parts and one of the principles has been fulfilled. I would especially like to highlight the principle of rationality of resource use. What do I mean by that? What I'm saying is that what's in the law is that working on documentation, filling out forms, entering data, making reports, keeping records has been assessed as an integral part of professional work. So it's a work obligation for someone who's in the workplace. We need to stop disgusting ourselves with this job, find the best way and time when we can get that part of the administrative work done, and always have the doctor sees, let's hope that the cardio surgeon doesn't sign up, but someone who is or in the specialization, etc., to find it, but that's already a problem with the organisational unit and its function so that someone doesn't waste valuable time to do it. It's not a waste of time either. This is the information the state needs, but it is a loss of professional involvement of a doctor and this will allow healthcare professionals and co-workers to do so, and the law provides that a greater commitment will be made to healthcare professionals and health associates. It stands at 5th point of the general principle of commitment to the patient. So we're breaking up this idea that paperwork means a waste of time and a loss of chance for a doctor to deal with what he's trained to do. In medical and medical care documentation, which is mostly already mentioned and I don't want to speak, there is finally classification and ranking where your medical records, dental records, immunisation charts, etc. will come to you. where you will receive instructions, internal instructions, external reports, hospital reports, commissions, commission references, where protocols are conducted, etc. Why does that stand out? Now when you look at that protocol there are 24 and 24 basic protocols, that in one dispensary for women's health protection you run seven, eight parallel protocols, not every patient enters all seven or eight protocols at the same time. Sometimes because of the nature of the health condition, it enters one or two, but this is how it unites the possibilities and creates unique forms and unique forms of access, it is clear that, especially when electronic communication is introduced, it will be possible to transfer information about the patient from one document to another segment and satisfy the requirement to fill out all relevant documents. We agree a lot that modern technology will allow it to be faster, more efficient, and yet according to the categories given for the protocol and the books of records where 20 different records of infectious diseases, diseases of greater social significance, rare diseases, professional diseases, can be controlled, because it is not excluded that one patient can be in one or the other or in another, because there are several different diseases or conditions present at the same time, that we are not talking about injuries, which then becomes common to everything they normally carry in their personal history. Daily and current records are now clarified. Right now, doctors know in therapeutic and secondary protection and doctors or healthcare professionals, associates in primary health care what they do, what they need daily to report, that in this current, final report being carried out, also within one day and a set of all final diagnosis shows both the quality of work. You have the first re-entry etc., but then when it goes into the final current report, the current record, then the final diagnosis is put on it, and the arrival of patients with a diagnosis is a re-entry, not a new review, and a new diagnosis set. The law pays considerable attention, and this is what all of us doctors know most about, what I was talking about, what we less know, at least we who are not preventers, is the legislators' intention to establish a risk factor record. It is precisely prescribed what should be recorded, which is very often met in public, when we are talking about the fact that we have not given enough attention to the environment, to the healthy environment, to the protection of ionising radiation, to the content or concentration of harmful volatile matter in the air or microparticles, it will now, not health, possibly preventive institutions, somewhat "Batut" and seduces, but also other legal persons involved in such measurements be obliged to make up a report on it and that is one of the steps that we are now introducing in this law, because of the prevention and creation of healthy living conditions and work for the citizens of Serbia. When it comes to the register of documents on resources, it concerns health institutions of private practice and other legal ones. So, at first glance, everyone will have to report, not only human resources by certain categories, not in too much detail, but really the basic, how many doctors there are, how many sisters, how old, prognostically important, knows when to write a general plan not to be left without specialists, how many doctors' professions, to see what is missing, what is deficiting, but also equipment, personnel, space, work space and all that. This may in some ways hit privates, perhaps not, might want to, perhaps want to realistically show the state of their equipment and be competitors at the moment of creating conditions for equivalent participation in providing health care for Serbian citizens, to join the system, as some pharmacies have included in this supply system. Some can do so when conditions are created for this, when these insurance houses that are obviously not being taken away from the dominant RFZO, etc. are in place. Reports that are made, when all these are collected in different forms, are required to make different reports. These reports, if we don't count on what health care providers are doing, so they're primary, secondary, tertiary, so in institutions themselves, that's what health institutes do. They are sent data with a precise periodical, when what is to be sent and what is the responsibility if it is not done, and when they get it from the health care facility and 20 and how much, 23 from Serbia and when the Batut gets it, it does an integrated system, an integrated report that makes up all vital, important, important data on the movement, on the course of the disease, on the number of patients, but also on health resources. All of this is finally, after their law provided for March 31st next year, published on the site for the previous year, of course devoid of content in which you would recognize the person who has C hepatitis, has HIV or some kind of psychiatric disease, which would discriminate. One of the principles is secrecy, so it's really taken care of, and so far it's been taken care of, and so far what was known about the patient was his secret and was solved by laws already current, the Data Protection Act, about personality. Many border laws have come to a roof over this health problem. We're re-enacting it, so we're doing records, we're keeping track of what's in the records of the forms. Individual and aggregated reports, of course, are based on that. I would say just one more word about the obligation to report to the Health Protection Institute, the Institute of Health of Serbia, so "Batuta", that the obligation at intervals, which have already been clearly defined, is sorry, with some exceptions, long enough to do so well. It'll all be better and easier when the first, second year of system development is over, because we don't accidentally give a large range of operations, prepare documentation, and even by 2020, maybe for some registers, some records, that we're just stalking ourselves, and it becomes a simple way to function. The obligation of health institutions to keep their records, sometimes a year, two, once for life, permanently, as dental records, as drug registers, as health records that we know to be kept in health homes 10 years after the death of a patient, as a history of illness in hospitals, is about to refresh one such norm that existed before. The integrated information system speaks a lot about, returning from the introductory section to concrete opportunities and needs to go in terms of the integrated system. It's the electronic file that's going to be the medical file, I guess it's going to be, now we need to see what it looks like, the law says that it's going to be some kind of lower, some kind of minimum of what's in basic medical documentation, so it's not health records, because that health records are also pulling out the elements of what the health care institution provides, when, equipment, structure, etc., but just basic medical documentation, the basic copy of that draws from it, etc. What I've finished now is about another law that's on the agenda today. I think it is quite rational to change the number of board members, that it will enable three or four members of the ministry that are located, it will not interfere with the work of the RFZO, but rather it will be necessary to connect with the ministry and the government that creates the health policy and must implement it. The model we've had so far, with a 21st member, has shown great abnormalities, abnormal phenomena and events with frequent court epilogues. Their autonomy and independence led to the fact that many of them ended up in court, that the funds were being misused. If there is a good will and a decision, and the RFO has shown that it really intends to work differently, despite the lack of a significant portion of the funds, it has managed to achieve significant gains, to propose to record the prices of medicines on the list, to introduce new methods and, together with the ministry, to finance part of the equipment, to be found on the list of financing the necessity for health care. That's why they need help to be more operational, work faster, and the ministry can finally propose to one of the missing persons on the insurance list, if they were craftsmen or disabled, etc., because 75% or close to that cover farmers, insured persons from work relations and pensioners. About this population of users is about 75% filled in, and we know that otherwise the Ministry of Budgets grants funds that donates certain types of insurance to others, which donates participation, payments to a fund for some other types of insurance for which the state is obliged to guarantee their implementation. That's why I think this is one rational decision. It cannot in any way harm the efficiency of RFO's work and decision-making, but rather accelerate, pragmatically to address such situations in which they are located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12903	Thank you. Does anyone else come forward from the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups for a word? (No) We're moving on to the speaker list. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, and let Marijan Risticevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12904	Two laws, one of which clears up some dilemmas, and the other one is a brand-new law that defines an important area. New Party MPs will vote for both laws for different reasons. First, on this shorter law, on the Fund Act, where the number of members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of the Fund is reduced, where the government's supremacy on these boards is ensured, and I think that's good. It's practically legalizing what happened now. It was hardly anyone who seriously believed that the representatives of various other social groups were really their representatives, it was more of a farce where representatives of various authorities set up their own people who participated together in the management of the Fund in a very bad way. This reduces the number of members of these two bodies and reduces the number of potentially responsible for the mismanagement of the Fund, as has been the case so far, and reduces the number of potential culprits for criminal management of the Fund, which has been happening. We, for example, have the most recent reminders, that a few months ago we came to the genius conclusion of someone from the Ministry or from the Fund that 300 million euros are at an annual surplus in the Fund and that it should be transferred to the pension fund. In parallel, we still have children dying because they can't be treated if someone doesn't send a text message. That's inadmissible. So we vote "yes" for this to make it more clear who's to blame. Of course this second law is necessary, to introduce a system of monitoring and management and medical documentation and that is absolutely a good thing. I think it's very bad that, if I read it correctly, it's only since 1 January 2016. I think it's gotta be done before. This is the 21st century. There's no need to reveal the usefulness of software and hardware. It's all there already, it just needs to be applied. If it is money, it is certain that very favourable loans can be found for the area, either from the funds or from the producers of that software and hardware, so I think that deadline should be shortened, but it is likely that this deadline is an assessment of the possibility and efficiency of this government to do something affirmative. I think we should move on, that with this kind of health insurance system, there's no cure, that we have to move on to something better, to move from Bismark's system to Beverly. This means that all Serbian citizens have primary health care free of charge, whether they are working or not, whether they are on the bureau, whether they are pensioners or anything, and that they are affirming the place and role of private funds for the further level, secondary and tertiary level, or higher level of health care. Also, to integrate military health into civil health, to create a single health care, a single fund, or at that time there would be no fund if we were to move to the Beverly system, but under the same administration because we have hundreds of thousands of square meters of space made for medical institutions, which is now empty in military health, and we still give the largest part of the money in civil health investments for bricks, cements and commissions to those who do so, and we are neglecting the purchase of equipment, training staff and all that needs to raise the level of health care. A private insurance agency, I've already said that, and the introduction of a voucher, that means that people who have health care can choose whether they will be treated in private health or in public health, and that both apply to the state for the provision of these services. We're in the health system at the beginning of the 20th century. By all systems of the organization, by relations, by cost, by irrationality, we are at the beginning of the 20th century. Before World War I, Serbia had a better health system than it has now. I'm talking about the system here, not the doctors. Doctors who are punished because they are good, doctors who have reduced salaries twice in the last year because they are good, are now receiving salaries that are less than the salary of cleaning women in any serious state of Europe. This is inadmissible and this leads to many problems and anomalies in our health, from going specialists to legalizing low corruption, which is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12905	The word is Ljubica Mrdković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12906	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Dear Mr Minister, members of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, it is evident that there is a completely innovative law in front of us that will in a unique way edit the area of health records and records. There are a number of reasons for the adoption of this law, with the adoption of the voting day, of a single continent in the area of health, which has so far been regulated by the laws of 1981, with additions from 1985 and 1989, with some issues open and unresolved. First of all, the unification of health documentation and records provisions and the introduction of a unique way and method in keeping patient records reduces administration in healthcare institutions and allows healthcare professionals to carry out the work they have chosen, which means that they are sufficiently dedicated to patients, not spending most of their working time on the input of various data and updating of the records. This law simplifys the process of keeping health records and records through the automation of the process. Given that there is a daily improvement and improvement of information and communication technologies, as well as the development of health care, it is necessary to regulate the area of health documentation and records in a unique and uniform manner, which this law does. Many are the benefits of this law, and I will only mention some of them. In addition to reducing the administration and saving it brings, conditions are created to better reflect the health status of individuals and society in general. A unique way of keeping documentation and records will certainly relieve health care professionals of their obligations, contribute to improving quality in performing health work and a higher degree of satisfaction for patients provided with health care. But health care professionals are also expected to be sufficiently committed and up-to-date when working with the new system, as the law provides responsibility for those who enter the data into the system. Also, data from patients entering the system must be adequately protected in order to avoid any possible abuse or possession of unauthorized persons, which is also regulated by this law. The integrated health information system will make the planning and implementation and management of the health system more efficient, as well as the smooth and quality functioning of all parts of the health system and of all participants and entities. By integrating the health records system, we will have the right picture of what our citizens suffer from, which types of diseases are dominant for a certain age, gender, profession, geographical area, etc., and thus we will be able to act preventively and take appropriate steps to eliminate the causes leading to the occurrence of certain diseases through further recruitment and education of the population. As regards the costs of health care, which are related to this type of engagement, other than short-term savings, which are immediately visible and which are seen in the reduction of purchase costs, etc. office consumables, long-term savings will be more extensive and more effective and effective, as the possibility of continuous insight into the health and health needs of our population will allow planning and programming of health care, planning and projection of costs for the purchase of medicines and sanitary materials, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of plans and health protection programmes, monitoring of resources in the health care system. Finally, as regards this law, I would say that we regulate one of the priorities foreseen by the Health Protection Plan of the Republic of Serbia, but also by harmonising our internal laws relating to patients' rights, the protection of personal data, the regulations governing the field of electronic document, electronic signature, but also by international acts such as the European Charter of Patients' Rights, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention and the Protection of Persons against Automatic Data Processing, as well as adopted government planning documents, the Strategy for the Development of the Information Society in the Republic of Serbia and the Strategy for Combating Corruption. As far as the Health Insurance Act is concerned, I would say that according to the changes already made to the legal arrangements governing the area of pension and disability insurance and in the domain of the National Employment Service in this proposed legislative text, we can see a reduction in the number of members of the Management and Supervisory Board, meaning that the number of members of these bodies should be brought to some reasonable extent, in order to improve their operational performance and to ensure the speedy adoption of acts and decisions within the competence of this authority. As we have heard from you, Minister, and as we have seen in the text of the proposed law, the current RF WHO Management Board has 21 members, while the Supervisory Board has seven members. These amendments and amendments to the laws reduce the number of members of the Management and Supervisory Board, thus enabling faster, more efficient and operational work, without jeopardising the principle of representation through the selection of members of those bodies. In addition, with this number of members of the Management Board, representatives of the competent ministry will also be represented, as well as representatives of insurance companies from the ranks of employees, pensioners and farmers' insurance companies, all in order to better and more adequate implementation of health policies in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12907	The word is Mirjana Dragas, and let Jovana Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12908	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow Members, are present today, I am talking about the proposal of two laws in the field of health care and the Health Insurance Act and the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care. Already in the discussion so far, it was quite clear how significant this Law on Health Records is. At first glance, it is already said that it can be assumed that it is, as I would say, a Benning Law, that it is a law of technical nature, etc., but essentially it is something that is the basis for the development of many important tasks that arise from the process of monitoring the health of the population, the treatment of each individual, its protection and overall monitoring and prevention, above all when it comes to the health of the nation. These laws today provide us that, in the next period in this, above all, the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health, are being developed and, in a certain way, the mandatory keeping of health records, health records, ways of dealing with this, the secrecy of data, the deadlines for the delivery and processing of data, the means of making available, the handling of these data, etc., are very specific reasons in this bill. This law regulates and provides, what I think is very important, the improvement of social and health care protection, the improvement and integrity of data collection, their processing and monitoring, the way they are kept, the rationalisation of health costs, which I consider to be very important, better research work, the assessment of the health of the nation and prevention, as well as health policy, permanent education in the health care of all doctors, health associates, but, of course, I consider it a certain way for patients. The reason for the changes in this law is also the change that takes place in the very conditions in which health care is working today. I would point out here that, first of all, I notice one continuity in monitoring and implementing and applying the laws that have been passed, e.g. in the previous term of office, it shall primarily concern the protection of personal data and the protection of the rights of patients, the protection and development of preventive healthcare, etc. I consider this an upgrade or a development. Such data, i.e. such continuity in the implementation of health policy, in this case, and I believe that this should be done in all areas, shows the quality of work and commitment to the work of the previous minister, as well as this minister, which will provide for further adequate management of the ministry itself, but also the development of overall health care, the goal that we want to achieve in this area and in this very important segment. Today we see and notice that most health institutions develop and apply various information systems. Computers are present, which is, for example, Five or ten years ago, to this extent, it wasn't represented. That is why, as the debate so far has shown, it is very important to create a cross-section at this moment, to introduce a new law and thus, by applying it itself, to ensure further development and application of information technologies, and thus to provide a single information system. When we read this law, we see that the provisions of this law apply equally to all levels of health care in the state health system, but also in the private system. What I was interested in, what we talked about a little bit yesterday on the Health Committee, and I also want for citizens to simply raise that question and point it out again, is that the comparison and uniqueness of the data being monitored, i.e. in the system of state health, or in the system of private health. It is known, of course, and this relationship is developing more and more that when we go to our chosen doctor for all forms and needs of a certain level of health care prior to the doctor's examination, references to another institution that will give us a higher level of health care and such records are kept at all levels of primary, secondary, tertiary, etc. However, because of the burden of many health institutions, due to the length of waiting, the inability of employees to long wait for admission to a home health, for example, with their chosen doctor or another specialist review, very often we see that citizens opt for a faster and more efficient system of private health check at a private health center even if they have paid for it, saving their time and faster come to results and assessment of the state of their health. Private health institutions also keep records, however, I have asked the question, or all citizens, whether in any part and both of them meet each other to obtain a single medical record of each citizen, that every citizen, whether he appears in one or another institution, can have one complete picture of the state of his health, because we know that there is a need for adequate and appropriate therapy in the whole of his condition, and not only in relation to the segment that is the subject of his interest at that moment. In any case, the answer I received yesterday, which I expect will be given to the general public today through your answers or through further discussion, certainly refers to what we will achieve only in the coming period, and that in this time and this law provides it, we manage to unite and improve, that there is equipment primarily technical in all units of the state health care system, that there is a comparison and compatibility of information systems, which is increasingly seeking a unique system that will be able to provide all of this information that I have talked about, at some point. It is not important for them on one side of the line, on the other side of the line and not to meet each other at any point. In any case, the goal of developing an integrated health information system is something that we think should come, and if possible before the 2020 deadline, although of course we have in mind that it is one process that lasts and simply has to because of its sensitivity and that it has a certain length of time. Finally, when we talk about this, I think it is very good that the draft of this law was immediately taken into account and the compatibility of this law with European laws, and we see that international experts participated in this, which should certainly be confirmed, and therefore we are going to meet all that is expected of us to join Europe. I have heard from the debate a single piece of information that may not be burning in mind when it comes to the creation of such information systems, perhaps that they should be in the language and letter of the Serbian people, because it provides for the presence, development and protection of the Cyrillic as our alphabets, our language, and this also provides for our identity in the family of European peoples and in the family of European languages, which should certainly be provided and taken into account in this future period. In any case, I believe that the proposal for this law should be supported, that it is very high-quality and that it will ensure that healthcare is improved and that public health monitoring is improved in the development of prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12909	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Ljiljan Beronj. I apologize, Jovana Jovanovic first, you prepare yourselves. I read it wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12910	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, when it comes to this bill on health documentation, I believe that so far we have all agreed that doctors are spending a lot of time on unnecessary administration and what is more, one third of their total working time, and that the management of such an electronic file, or medical file, would mean that doctors will be able to devote more time to their patients, because the application of information technologies makes it easier not only for those working in the health care system, the application of information technologies much easier and users of this system. Your minister's intensity is good, your intensity is that in a more economical and simple way we have all the information on patients in one place. However, intention, as intention itself, is not enough, unless the intention is followed by concrete steps that will lead to the implementation of this law when we speak of it. We are facing several obstacles here, one of these obstacles is that we all know that information technologies often require some new people to bring with them some new knowledge, some new information from these areas, and these new people, that means new employment. However, the first obstacle is that today we have a ban on hiring people in the public sector, so often these experts who could help and who could bring new knowledge go somewhere to Germany or Norway, where young doctors often go to apply their knowledge. The second obstacle that we are facing is that you have put the law to be applied since 2016 and until then it is necessary to take a series of steps, as we have said for a little while, among other things, that doctors and medical staff define the procedures and flows of this information, that those who deal with these information technologies, experts from these areas, put all this together in one whole and the devices and ways and that system functionally. However, all those people who are supposed to work until 2016 to make it possible for this law to be implemented, all these people should be further motivated and they should make another 50% minimum of some of their efforts to make it all work, I just don't know how they're going to be motivated, whether the new Labour Act or by reducing their wages. When we talk about the Health Protection Act, this law says that the rationalization of these bodies is needed, and we agree, but not rationalization in the way you predicted it. In your explanation, you wrote that the proposed retains the participation of the most numerous categories in the civil sector, however, you forgot about the previous law, you left out the participation of persons with disabilities in the boards of directors and supervisory boards, which, according to information Minister Vulin made earlier than I thought for a month, the person with disabilities has 550,000, so this category in Serbia has been forgotten. If you were to make a more rational division of this rational by which the Government and your Ministry you are giving control of the funds available to the Fund and therefore devising the existence of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, you could say, that's what we suggested to our amendment, you could say, instead of three or four people from the Ministry, you could put one less person there, as a representative of the Ministry, or those appointed by the minister, and put one person as previously from the Association of Persons with Disabilities. The colleague who spoke in the debate this morning also said that it is important to have representatives of those who know their funds for the Fund in these bodies, so that they can in this way directly influence how their money, or the money of all citizens, will be distributed. I agree with this in full, it is necessary that all these representatives be on boards and supervisors, not that it should happen as you have suggested these amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, not that three or four people appointed vote them, because who is more interested in improving the system of health care and health care services from their users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12911	Thank you. The word has been sent to the people, Dr. Ljiljan Beronj. Let Dusan Milisavljevic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12912	Dear ministers, guests, esteemed presidents, dear colleagues, I am pleased every time a law is passed that defines something clearly and makes a commitment to something concrete. I prefer it even more, since I'm a doctor by profession, when such a law is passed in health care. I believe it's not a long time before lawyers wait for us in the halls of health and hospitals and chase after dissatisfied patients who are practically there and always will be. It is therefore very important that all health workers know and have clear defined concepts that bind them first, and then protect them in this way. Since I have worked practically in all services and in general practice and in emergency, I have been in pediatrics for 17 years, and I have been assigned to all types of recording, protocol, enrollment, and I know well what well-leaded documentation means. First of all, it is important for the patient himself and for the monitoring of the course of his illness, but it is no less important for the person who runs it, because as a doctor, I am a witness or as a court expert, I knew and saw how important it is and the court document. I like that it is now precisely and clearly defined who has the right to seek medical records, that only a patient in a personal, written or oral form and for the purposes of the court, because it was happening earlier especially while I was working in an ambulance to get two uniformed police officers out of good or no good intentions and asking them to look at the protocol. Now it's impossible, and the second question is, checking out the sick leave within one firm when the lawyer came in and asked for a personal look at the medical records. So now it's impossible, we refer it to a first-degree commission that exists at the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Definitely, it's not easy to keep proper medical records. It takes time, we see how many tables there are, but without it, we're aware that there's no clear insight into what's going on. In the end, it is also important because of the effect of the doctor himself. No more practical hairing results when the paper could take it all, now it's a little harder. So a doctor who works well can't compare himself to a colleague who works much less. I've read the bill carefully over and over again, because I've been interested in it since I came as a pediatrician, but as Deputy Director of the House of Health in The Tower, I know what it means and when we always have a public health office above us, and we know how well we have to do it, because practically if we don't do everything right, it's practically like we didn't do anything from work. Maybe some of my colleagues will find something, I really didn't find anything missing. I thought first when I was reading the basic medical book, there was a missing drug book, a book of malignancies, books of the dead, but of course I'm after our own in auxiliary records. My suggestion is just to define a competent worker. You know who's in charge. I'm in charge. My sister's in charge. However, if two sisters commit to doing a similar job, believe that there will always be a problem that should have been done, but this can be clearly defined by the systematization of jobs. An important segment is a record related to the writing of the report. First of all, it's very good that we definitely know what's being reported, who's being reported, until when it's time to apply and, of course, what's not less important, and that's what the penalty for non-respect of deadlines is. I know it's not easy to collect individual reports that ultimately serve to produce summary reports. In the end, just archiving and storing data from health records is also important for monitoring the disease and for the court's possible needs and, as my colleagues have said, the forensic importance of course it does. In the end, just to say that the introduction of a single information system has allowed us to keep an virtually similar uniform way of running an electronic chart, that the document does not depend physically on the hand of a doctor, we apply to some who have poor handwriting, or from its current time as far as we can, so what we will do and what is very important is that it is practically disabled later correspondence into an electronic chart. So, when it comes to the program itself, we're working on Helion, we're working on general practice, but you know how, how much money, so much music. It should still be a little more sophisticated on the program. There's a lot of unnecessary steps that a doctor has to go through to get to the end, and that still takes his time. The huge advantages of the information system are significant savings in consumer material, then connecting with other services. So when I get a patient, I'm connected to the lab, the X-rays. So I can see everything because we're united. There will come, of course, a time when I will be able to do so within my fund or within the entire country. Then, compliance with other European standards in this area and ultimately what is of great importance to our country, that no additional material resources are needed. I wouldn't do much about the law, but they said colleagues, there isn't much time, which concerns the formation of the Board of Directors and Supervisors. The reduction of the number of members, of course, will certainly lead to better operationality and financial restrictions. In the end, since so far my left and right side has rarely passed a bill together, I think this is just one of the laws that my left and my right will vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12913	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12914	President-in-Office, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will be very brief in this second presentation. I'm gonna say a few things I forgot in my first presentation. In Article 25. The Law on Health Documentation states that the auxiliary records consist of a competent healthcare professional, i.e. a health associate and another authorised person and is responsible for the accuracy of the data. What concerns me is that this is the second authorised person, and he is not a health care professional, because healthcare professionals, health associates, the responsibility for the accuracy of the data cannot pass on to another authorised person. A health care professional can always be a good administrator, and the opposite is not understood. That's something that left me doubting this bill. I have made a proposal for an amendment that will be discussed, I suppose, with you in the ministry, so pay attention to this because we are witnesses that in practice a lot of people who are not professional with medicine, with health care, not only that they may be nurses but even some high school staff gets a job from a doctor, gets a job from a more or more head nurse -- come on, come on, come on, it doesn't matter, you'll learn that, etc. These are some things that I understand, that they can quite well master. Perhaps in the bill of law, we can further define it and improve it. What I have also left out is that under this Law in medical documentation it is very important that it is kept in writing, as the law provides, but also in that electronic form. So there should be one database of CDs, a database of DVDs that will be stored. There is a possibility, as there is an audio record in some European clinics, that the doctor dictates his operational findings and that the audio record stands for audio libraries, files, which would preserve all these reports, both written, printed, and audio records of the operation itself and post-operative flow of patients. Also, as far as this information technology is concerned, the system that's being introduced into Serbia, I think it should be deeply integrated into our hospitals. In particular, here, I'm going to set an example of how many antibiotics have been given, how many infusion solutions have been given, how many anaesthetics have been given, that when a patient comes out of the O.R., that is, the account that came out of the O.R., that follows him later in the post-operative course, and that at the same time the Fund as our central register, as regards health care, and that we have this as a single invoice, to point out one correct invoice for that treatment to the Republic Fund. In my first presentation, I said that my desire was to equalize state and private health. I think we should go a little bit into correcting the existing health care costs of healthcare professionals, because they're very funny. In our old code book and the price list of our services, it says that the examination of professors is 200 or 300 dinars, while the market value in private clinics deny it, so it goes from two to five thousand, depending on the specialty and depending on the professor who works. I think the solution is to raise that price in state institutions and to reduce it in private somewhere and to find some golden environment that could serve as an initial negotiation in that recognition of state and private health, and also to facilitate the Republic Fund that with a health book we can treat with our colleagues working in the private sector. Dear Minister, I think the main core of our problem, in addition to the lack of money and poor certain treatment conditions in hospitals, is, in my opinion, an undefined clear status of the work of doctors, state, private health care. It was former Minister Tomica Milosavljevic's solution, so he entered into a resolution, and then he changed the law. I've witnessed that within a year the law has been changed twice. I think there's a vacuum left that allows for potential healthcare corruption, undefined clear work of doctors in state and private health. I advocate that the private health care survive, that it be recognized, but that the principles of medical work of the state clinics be clearly established. I'll take the opportunity to make a suggestion. The neighbouring Croatia, where you were yesterday, has offered a very good way of solving this problem, that there is a practical struggle of doctors what he does during the day - how many bandages he will do, how many changes he will make, how many operations he will do, and if he collects a hundred points, if he has physical strength, he can also work in a private office this afternoon. The law shouldn't make it impossible for him. If you in Serbia have doctors who only hand out their business cards and advertise some private office and use the state sector to send it to their private office, it is, in my opinion, a kind of crime and that is something we must say together that this can no longer be done in some future period. I suggest we make a similar proposal, like the neighbors did, to do to the doctor what he has to do during the day, so if he has free time, if he has the physical strength, which he doesn't, let him do in the afternoon. So there's no one here against the private work of a doctor, but that the norm that exists in state institutions meets and that he can work freely afterwards. It is one of my appeals, with a repeat that I would like to see in your mandate that state and private health are recognised, to be unique and the same categories of health care and that with a health book we can treat ourselves with private people, because we pay a sum of money that is not small at all, however bad the economic situation in Serbia is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12915	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, we will support this proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act. This is about three members of this new amendment and there is no dilemma for us that this is good. We will also maintain the content and your proposal for this new Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health, Mr. Secretary Loncar, but despite our support for these two bill proposals, I have three notes that are necessary here to say about these draft laws. First, first note. I told you the last time you came to the congregation and I see that practice continues, and I thought if we had bad practice in something, it should stop. Here, for example, Mr. Loncar, I believe that before sending the bill to the Serbian Parliament, final corrections of the text should be made in full, to see each comma, every point of whether it is in place, whether all words are there, so that failures of this kind do not leave an impression of indifference and superficiality in the work. Here, for example, I am again, reading these bill proposals, as well as the previous times, encountering a single language structure that I believe really cannot exist when we are discussing the bill proposals and the arguments that come into the Serbian Assembly as one institution that enjoys the highest dignity in our constitutional system. Here, in the reasons for adoption, the first sentence – the reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the use of rationalising and achieving the efficiency of the work of the Management and Supervisory Board, the Republic Fund, etc. It is clear to me what is meant to be said here, but I think we must focus our attention on precision in using language in the formulations we use, even here in the Assembly, in order to set an example for others. I noticed that you maintain the continuity of such formulas that are not in line with some spelling norms and grammatical, sometimes linguistic. I just don't think it should happen again. I've told you three times here, when you came here, about it, this is the third time and you can't fix it. Another thing about this same Health Insurance Act, you wrote down, Mr. Loncar, here or one of your associates, but you perform on behalf of your team here, says – the proposed amendments to the Health Insurance Act aim to advance the work of decision makers for the functioning of the mandatory health insurance system in general and then the text continues. But I believe, Mr. Lonchar, that these changes, which are justified, are not enough to ensure a good functioning of the health insurance system in general. Then I wonder - why don't you finally come to this assembly to talk, for example I've singled out four things that are necessary for the system to function in general? For example, it has been mentioned here before – when are we going to open this story of equalising state and private health? This concerns two important things - the choice of Serbian citizens, who are guaranteed by the Constitution and, secondly, better quality services in the health insurance system. Another thing, is it possible for us to start talking about a slight increase, to say, paying healthcare workers? We believe here that the so far insistence on quantification of services provided by a particular doctor has not led to any savings or improvements. Let's apply some other measures, measure the work of those doctors, so someone can be rewarded, Mr. Lonchar. The third thing I've recorded here, which we can mention within this point, integration with military-medical health insurance. How come it didn't become part of some proposal that you're defending here, so let's agree with you that the system in general should function properly? He now, I mean, can't work properly, even though you wrote it down in an explanation. As regards this Proposal for a Health Documentation Act, Mr Loncar, article 61, says – it is then and then effective and is applicable from 1 January 2016. Maybe you said, I didn't notice it, I don't understand it – why since 2016? In Article 59, you say – a health care institution and other legal entities will coordinate their legal acts by 1 January 2020 at the latest. So now we're doing something for 2020, and we're not solving something that's urgent in the health insurance system, Mr. Lonchar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12917	Since there have been changes, the word has been given by the MP Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12918	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, we have before us today a bill on health records and health records in the field of health care. The Socialist Party of Serbia supports the adoption of this law because we believe its application will contribute to improving the quality of health care. The draft law, as it is said, regulates health documentation and records in the field of health care, the type and contents of health records and records, the manner and procedure of management, the persons empowered to keep health records, the time limits for the delivery and processing of data, the way data is available from patient medical documentation, the quality of data protection and data storage, as well as other issues. The bill also provides for health records to form the basis for the functioning of an integrated health information system. As a basic reason for the adoption of this single law, the Proposer, among other things, cites the intensive development of health and information-communication technologies, as well as the need to organise the area of health documentation and records in a unique way, in order to monitor the health and health needs of the population in an adequate and rational manner. Health records and records shall be used to monitor the health status of patients, monitor and study the health status of the population, monitor the implementation of obligations of all healthcare entities, monitor resources in the field of health care, monitor and continuously improve the quality of health care, finance health care, planning and programming of health care, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of plans and health care programmes, informing the public, implementation of international obligations in the field of health care and for the development of health care and health insurance systems. It also established the responsibility for the accuracy of the data entered by the responsible person in the healthcare institution and the other legal person, i.e. the founder of private practice. The data from the patient's medical records are particularly sensitive personality data. This law must ensure the highest degree of protection of personal data. The collection and processing of patient personality data provides for the exercise of the right to privacy and the right to confidentiality of patient identity data in accordance with the law governing the rights of patients and the law governing the protection of personal data. It is also prescribed that health institutions, private practices and other legal entities should, on the basis of health records and records, make up and provide individual and aggregated reports to the competent institution, i.e. the Institute of Public Health, as well as the organisation of health insurance. The Institute, i.e. the Institute of Public Health, has an obligation to keep registers of persons suffering from diseases and conditions of greater public health significance, e.g. Malignant tumor, diabetes, rare diseases and others. Health institutions, private practice and other legal persons subject to the law are obliged to keep medical records and patient records of unauthorized access, insight, copying, abuse, destruction, loss or unauthorized data changes. This is an obligation to take all organisational, technical and personnel measures to protect patient data against abuse, i.e. to take all adequate measures of protection, since the right to data protection, personal right, is strictly linked to the person of the rightholder. The newspaper, which represents a central promotion, is certainly the head of the health documentation in electronic form. In Article 37(4), point (a) is replaced by the following: The proposal for a law is an unequivocally established equal opportunity to carry out documentation both in writing or in electronic form. Based on this Bill proposal on an integrated health information system, Art. 44, 45 and 46. The law finally provides a legal basis for informing and considering the real state and need of a system of health documentation and records and establishing safe and efficient electronic services in the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund. We expect that electronic health care will significantly speed up the work of healthcare professionals, allow them to devote more time to the patient himself and provide them with a better quality service. In this regard, I hope that the content of the forms for keeping health records and records will be prescribed. The implementation of this law will require continued co-operation of the Ministry of Health with all institutions and with all levels of the health system. In particular, we point out that the adoption of this law in the service of system, long-term planning and responsible health care policies, such as Serbia is seeking, given that health care as an organised and comprehensive activity of society has a fundamental objective of achieving the highest possible level of preservation of citizens' health, which is essentially what this law should contribute. In order to achieve its purpose to the full extent of this law, the SPS welcomes and supports the modernisation and informing of the health documentation system, the health records adopted by this law and in the voting day will support the adoption of the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12919	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12920	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, respected ministers, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have two health laws ahead. The first is the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and the second proposal for a bill on health documentation and records in the field of health care. As regards the first draft law, it is very clear that it concerns the Governing Board of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. With this bill, the Governing Board of the Republic Health Insurance Fund will now have seven members, four of which will be on a proposal from the Ministry of Health, or Minister, and the Supervisory Board of the seven members will now have five members, three from the Ministry's ranks. What does this mean for the management system of the Republic Fund? This means a comprehensive health policy in the Republic of Serbia. In this way, rationalisation is also achieved, as the current total number of 28 members, which is the board of directors, which will be 12 members, seven members in the board of directors and five members in the Supervisory Board. So I said this provides a comprehensive health policy in the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the control of the spending of money from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This mechanism is not a newspaper, we already have it established in the National Employment Service, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. The aim of these proposed amendments is, above all, to improve the work of those who make significant regulations and decisions that will ensure that all health insurance companies apply health insurance rights under the same conditions. As regards the second Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care, it is clear that this is governed by health documentation and records in health institutions, private practice and other legal entities. The mandated introduction of SNS, Professor Poscurica, really spoke exhaustively of this law, but it was not burned to repeat the basic principles once again. Let's start with the reason for this law, which is that in the past, there has been a very rapid development of information and communication technology. There was a need to edit the area of health records and records in a unique way. It should be said that health records and records are used to monitor the health status of patients, monitor and study the health status of the population, monitor and implement the obligations of all entities in the field of health care, as contained in Article 2 of this new law. The adoption of this law will significantly improve the system of recording, processing, the way in which data are available and kept, thus ensuring integrated functioning of the information system in health care. This law is actually a prerequisite for health records and records to be conducted in a unique way in health institutions, private practice and other legal persons. As for the efficiency of management of the health system, it will significantly improve. Planning will also be improved, all in favour of the health status of the population and rationalisation of the use of all resources in health care. It is clear that all patient data significantly facilitate access to healthcare because they are comprehensive in terms of the course of treatment. It is possible for healthcare professionals to improve the treatment process in a very accessible way and to improve their commitment to the patient. In addition to improving the quality of health care workers' work, financial resources that can be redistributed to other parts of the health system will be provided. With this law, the Republic of Serbia agrees its legal system in the area of health with European and international standards in this area. There are also a few words to say about criminal provisions. I think they're perfectly suitable for both health institutions and individuals, for disregarding the Health Documentation Act. For the implementation of this law, it is, of course, the Ministry of Health. It should be stressed that implementation and implementation of this law do not require additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. In the end, Mr. Minister, the SNS will vote for these laws in the voting day. I am pleased that some members of the opposition's other parliamentary groups have said they will vote in favour of this law. I call on all other MPs to vote for these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12921	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milan Latkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12922	Dear Presidents, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in the context of a second principled search on the set of the health law proposal, I will talk about the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act. Although it seems at first glance that the proposed changes are small and concern only two members, Article 222 and Article 225, they are in fact essential, precisely because they allow for more operational management of the operations of the Republic Health Insurance Fund and more rational spending of compulsory health insurance funds. In particular, the proposed amendments provide for a reduction in the number of members of the Governing and Supervisory Committee of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. The current number of board members is reduced from 21 to seven, which means two-thirds, with members of the Supervisory Board being reduced by about 30% and from seven to five members. Two basic effects are achieved by this reduction. The first effect is to rationalise the number of members, and the second effect is to save. Given the current number of members in these committees and their non-small incomes, it is a significant savings, and I therefore think that this bill is welcome. The reduction in the number of members is now due to contribute to the more operational and efficient management and supervisory committees, on the one hand, while on the other hand it does not undermine the representation of key representatives of the listed categories of insurance who pay for the health contribution. In fact, representatives of staff insurance, pensioners and farmers will be represented in the board of directors. These proposals have arisen and will be verified by representative unions for employees, and their associations will do so in farmers and pensioners. In addition to these members, the health minister proposes four members, which achieves representation of the ministry's representatives, as a mechanism needed to implement the health policy and as a control of the dedicated definition and availability of funds to the Republic of Serbia's budget. A similar solution is on the matter of the supervisory board, which will now have five members, of which the minister will propose three, and one member will be elected from the ranks of farmers, employees, and pensioners. It is precisely these changes that achieve two basic objectives, firstly, that it is faster and more efficient to adopt regulations concerning the content and scope of the compulsory health insurance rights and the way in which these rights are achieved in the RFZO and secondly, to achieve savings in the financial plan of the RFZO in 2014. It is clear to us that the more operational board of the Republic Fund will make faster decisions concerning the content and scope of the compulsory insurance rights, as well as the way and procedure for the exercise of rights. In accordance with those amendments, important management bodies in the RFO, i.e. these two committees, are allowed to be placed in real and rational frameworks. At the same time, it can be concluded that amending the law does not require additional funding, but additional savings are also made in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I would also point out that this solution and proof of the preparedness of the Fund, the Ministry and the Government, is that in the application of the rationalisation and savings measures, it goes both in width and in depth of all sectors. From everything said, at the very end, in the voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12923	The word has been given by the People's MP Dr. Alexander Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12924	Honorable presidents, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, of course, it is a good thing when rationalising some of the laws as the number of board members is rationalised in this case. It is not quite clear why colleagues from the former regime are so concerned that four members will propose the government, of course, are our people. They should not be feared, if it was disputed that 21 people on the board were not channeling money in the right way at the time when the former regime was running it by spending money. Do not doubt that this team will do so in quality, because behind the responsible Ministry and the responsible Government, there are responsible people. So don't be afraid of it. It was good that you were afraid at a time when your regime spent about 12 years, 25 billion euros in the Health Fund, spent so well that it was simply amazing how you set priorities, that you inherited from Slobodan Milosevic health care under tents for 25 billion euros could be made for new hospitals. In 12 years of the previous regime, none, as far as I remember, I think I remember well. They were real masters to find a way to spend money without actually being directed towards patients and those basic users of the health fund. They had, and now I think, about 2180 employees of the Republic Fund PIO, times 12 months, times 1000 euros, so figure out how many of these machines that came up with ways to spend money, spend and cost this country. You have a system that 2180 people to 21,000 doctors, so one administrator to 10 operatives. Is it possible that an administrator should control 10 doctors, 10 operatives who work and conduct health care? The fund has some floscule type, recognizes or doesn't recognize the service. Then you have, example of rational spending that operating halls that have both surgeons and tracking medical records, have something called -- the fund doesn't recognize more than four planned operations today. What 12 operations can do doesn't matter, it won't work, it'll go on the schedule list. Is that normal and domestic spending money? Every organization, every health institution in the West is looking for the operating room to be engaged 24 hours a day, and you have a fit and an O.R., but you limit them to work. That's why some other people are waiting in line, so they can't get in line for surgery. At the same time, you're building five transplant centers that cost a great deal, and in the previous period, one transplant happened every 17 days in these five centers that you've built. So you really need to think about how the fund spent money on a 21-member board, how it distributed money, and how it invented something called protecting patients' rights, say through a selected doctor. You have done something that is very pompously announced - the chosen doctor, and in a situation where you have a home of health when you have 10 doctors and when a patient enters the patient can choose any of those 10, you have made one chosen one, so that the chosen doctor when he does not work, when he is sick, on rest or on a break, then the patient cannot get health care, because usually other doctors are not willing to receive it because they have fulfilled their quota. That way, at least 30% of the people who asked for health care from their health care facility fled to private health care. So it's very nice to listen to you after the battle that it's probably a dangerous situation for the Ministry to control. They'll control our ministry, our fund, in our country. I hope that this will bring significant savings and significantly improve the quality of health care and that money will never be spent in Serbia's health system again in the way you spent it with the board of directors of 21 members and seven other members of the Supervisory Board. For a short while further on the documentation, I hope that the adoption of the medical documentation law will lead to the fact that nurses can devote more time to patients, that they do not prescribe throughout the day forms, a hundred times the name and last name from one to another form in order to obtain the effectiveness of the healthcare system, so that doctors and nurses can devote themselves to patients and not to writing which kind of papers, which the Fund will recognise as a service or not to recognize. All of what the Fund recognized as a service was intended to pay out of those two billion budgets annually, when 800m euros for salaries, 300m for treating patients in hospitals, 300m for drug treatment and another 75m for heating, and 25m for feeding patients, some 500-800m euros left for investment. Where are your investments for the last 12 years? I'd love to see them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12925	Thank you. The word is by MP Radoslav Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12926	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to start with that famous saying that says, a healthy man has 1,000 wishes and only one sick. Why am I leaving that saying? I'm starting with the intention of speaking from the perspective of a man, an ordinary man who is in front of a system of health care. How do we make the law and how do we try to pass the laws in parliament, while the law survives the test of time and the test of life? It's very easy to answer that question. If we place an individual in the centre of observation, in this case it is a citizen of Serbia and we place him in the position that at some point he will need the services of the health care system, of course with such a problem we come to good laws and good solutions very easily. There's a great benefit to what's on this Parliament's agenda today. We can talk about the benefits for this common man, a Serbian citizen who will finally have regulated information about his own health condition with which he can appear in any part and segment of the health care system with adequate and orderly data, which will, of course, facilitate service providers, or doctors and healthcare professionals in general, facilitate working with patients and, of course, give better results. Other benefit is a benefit for people who work in a health care system. Also, adequately arranged data on health and medical records allow them to have the right insight and insight into the condition of the patient as an individual, as well as certain groups that appear in front of the health care system. I come from the private sector and in a specific way I still have to look at this matter. So far, the private sector in Serbia has been marginalised well and one huge human material potential has not been used properly by the state. These laws, with which the ministry, the government and you, Mr. Minister, are today coming to parliament, show this very good intention that an individual, an individual, is being watched throughout the system, that the benefits for the individual and his sense of security in the system be first. I am personally pleased that we, from the private sector, will finally become part of this system, because by the very fact that we will have an obligation to keep the documentation in the way it is conducted and to say in the state institutions of the health system, it is the intention of making us both equal and properly used part of this very health care system. These ideological prejudices that lasted decades after the Second World War in Serbia and that the private is by definition because the private is an enemy of society, unfortunately, can still be felt in everyday life and everyday practice. I could name dozens of examples here, hundreds of examples of personal practice, what my patients experience when they leave with a prescription that I write with an opinion, etc., if they appear in front of individuals. So I'm not talking about the whole system in front of individuals in the state health care system. I hope that these deviations in society as part of the deep reforms that are really before us will be dealt with in the right way and that this individual will be more satisfied, safer, and that is the task of the state to ensure the safety and security of its citizens. Finally speaking about the amendment of the Health Insurance Act, my colleagues spoke about the aspects of the law in the previous debate, I would only say the following – and in this way this government and this state show a sincere intention that all unnecessary spending of funds collected from Serbian citizens will be reduced to a minimum, that every dinar that enters the budget will be rationally used and that we can legitimateise ourselves before the citizens of Serbia and when we ask them to tighten the belt, to suffer, to deny themselves in order to make Serbia a safe, stable and host state in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12927	I thank Dr. Jovic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12928	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I thought I'd cut this discussion short, but judging by the current discussion, I'm going to have to go through the government's proposal once more, especially through a proposal relating to the Health Protection Act. a proposal to amend the structure and number of members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of the RFZO. I'm very sorry, Mr. Minister, that some of my colleagues who have been participating in the discussion since this morning haven't been very informed about the matter we're talking about. Information only, invoices returning from the Republic Fund to health institutions shall be returned only if the health care institution does not have the approval of the Ministry of Health to provide a particular service, shall be considered as secondary and therapeutic levels of health care, and if it has not requested the accreditation of that service from the Minister of Health and then there is no such health service i.e. the codes in the contract with the Republic Health Insurance Fund. It's information to make it clear to colleagues how the system works. What's also important is that the SNS has a director of the Republic Health Insurance Fund three years ago, that the minister in the previous government, as you say, was a minister from the SPS, so I would ask that we turn to the future and organisation of health services to the satisfaction of the users. The citizens of Serbia, and the politics to leave for some other topics, because I think the topic is very important and very important. What is the essence of the proposal that Mr. Minister on behalf of the Government and the Ministry gave to the National Assembly for consideration? This is a reduction in the number of board members, and I fully agree with colleagues who have discussed the need to streamline the work of these bodies because this entails a certain cost of living, travel expenses for board members and should be less. All right. It's totally fine. What is very important and what I was talking about this morning, and what does it look like no one wanted to comment on, is a change of structure in decision-making at the Republic Health Insurance Fund and what kind of change? The Republic Health Insurance Fund is conceived so that all Serbian citizens, all the employees, all those who are capable and committed, are paying a certain part of the funds, their profits in the fund for the treatment of all Serbian citizens, and that up to a few months ago was 12.4%, don't hold me by my word, and now it's 10.4%, because to repeat what I said this morning, not the proposal of the finance minister, the government's proposal, was explained that there was an enormous savings in the Republic Fund of 300m euros. Let me remind you that the budget of the Republic Fund was 236 billion. Something over 2 billion euros. So that's what was done and the projection at the annual level is 300 million dinars of savings or 300 million euros- To have a rebalance here less than ten days ago where the Republic's budget, the budget of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which is part of the Republic's budget, has been reduced to 220 billion with the explanation that what was taken down, has been transferred to 2% and that's logical, but it's not logical to cut all positions in the republican budget linearly, especially those that have nothing to do with the acquisitions of building material run by the Republic Fund's Directorate, medicines, mandatory lists. There are a lot of things that are used to treat our insurance companies that supply health care facilities themselves, and it's logical that these positions shouldn't be touched. It's something that the government confirmed in the part of the apropriation relating to the Ministry of Health, where it added 600 million, and that's what we talked about this morning, the part that the government is obliged to pay for those insurance companies whose participation in the fund is covered by the Government from the budget, so all those who are employed, pregnant, socially endangered, all those for whom the government pays for this participation in the participation of basic health services through the Republic Health Insurance Fund raised to 14 billion. What does that mean? If we took down 30 billion on an annual basis, we need more real money from the budget now to pay 14 billion back to close the 220 billion budget, and we also have 5.5 billion in the pension position, and what did we achieve by that? We've achieved a reduction in money from the Republic Health Insurance Fund to finance everything that can't be administratively reduced, and that's a disease. We can't cut that by regulation. We can reduce the treatment, but the disease can't be reduced by a regulation. Once again, we have to set aside another 5.5 billion from the budget by the end of the year to finance pensions. So, we didn't solve our pensions by reducing 300m euros per year in health care, nor did we do what we wanted, that health care can function with a 300m-euro reduction. It's impossible, whoever runs this country, it's impossible, because we're getting older and sicker and we need more and more modern to heal and have the right of people to do it. But let's get back to deciding. What is to be achieved by this? What's the point? The goal is that the absolute government can control the spending and the organisation of the spending of money in the Republic Health Insurance Fund, because the government, i.e. The minister, one or another or another, will always propose four members, it is his discretionary right, it will be the decision of the assembly majority, whatever it may be, and all those who have been filling the budget, who have decided so far on how to spend money, employees, private workers, pensioners, farmers, people with disabilities, all of them will be in the minority, will not be able to decide on the spending of their money that they voluntarily paid into the health system, but rather will be doing politics, whatever. This is your legitimate right that you're doing right now. It's the policy of this government and the parliamentary majority and it's an absolutely legitimate right, but you have to tell people what happens when such a decision is made. It means that the entire responsibility for the functioning of healthcare falls on the Republic government, there is no longer a Republic Fund which was an independent institution. Don't forget the Fund doesn't heal, the Fund pays healthcare workers and healthcare associates. The fund is a bank of money for treatment, it's not the Ministry of Health. So, based on the needs of insurance companies located in Serbia, all Serbian citizens, there is a projection of what needs next year and on this projection, services are negotiated and money is allocated to all those instructions needed for treatment, and health investments are done by the ministry at secondary and territorial level, and local self-government is working on the primary level, according to the law. What do we have now? We have a brief number of members of the Management Board of the Fund, but we also have something called the Health Insurance Act, which says in Article 209(3). – it is prescribed that insurance undertakings on the Management Board should be represented not only taking into account the category, but also the number of each category of insurance undertakings. Now I ask you -- if we don't change this member of the law, where is the government with its four representatives? Are we breaking the Health Insurance Act? So we're bringing in something of an emergency procedure, which is your legitimate right. You have all the possibilities provided by the law and most in the Assembly Hall, and then after an emergency procedure, we skip the procedure and skip the law, and this member refers to, say, the representatives of insurance companies being defended by the number of individual categories of insurance companies in the Republic of Serbia. According to the Republic Fund, on the basis of employment, 2,828,201 persons were secured, which accounts for 40% of the total number of persons required and represented by one of the seven. The number of insurance companies is 1,647,000 while 1,180,279 are persons who are insured through them. Second place in the number of insurance companies compared to the insurance base are pensioners with 1,920,584 secured, which is 28%, around 4% are farmers' insurance companies. What have we done now? We're going to pass a law that violates the regulation of the second law, we're going to change the structure, which needs to be reduced, okay, if it's saving those diaries, which I don't believe are more than a thousand, two dinars, so be it, because they're not paid functions, and we're going to change the way we decide. So those who give money don't have the last word in deciding how to spend the money they gave to treat them, but we're going to put it out of the way to do politics. It's legitimate and you have every right to do that, only people need to know what's being decided right now, what we're discussing right now. Once again, I will ask the assembly majority and Mr. Minister to look at our amendments. I think our amendments are meaningful, that they are useful, that they do not rule out, normally, that those who exercise power in the Republic continue to do so, that I think that the Health Fund and the Ministry of Health with their work are not a field where to look around, I don't know what kind of policy, whatever policy to run the country, I guess has the same supervision and the same ideas about treating the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that by adopting these amendments, we do make changes, but that what is essential, that the right of those who give money must have the right to decide on it, because whoever was able to make money that gets into the Republic's register is probably capable and smart enough to decide how to spend it, or we want to draw a conclusion here from these discussions, I don't want to insult anyone, that it's okay to make contributions, but we know how to spend that money. I'm sorry, please, what I'm paying as a contribution I guess I have the right to say that it should be channelled, and I don't believe that anyone, so whatever structure to come to power in the Republic of Serbia, has such an idea to reverse health care or want to reverse the treatment of people in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12929	I thank you, Dr. Bradic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12930	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister and his fellow Members, the honourable fellow Members of the People, I would first and foremost refer to several very important matters concerning both laws. Medical records can say that it serves as one significant source of data for statistical research in health care and what is important is that the whole process is of interest to the whole country. This medical documentation is used for monitoring and studying, first of all, the health status of residents, but also for programming and planning in the field of health care, is also used for the needs of the country's defence, for scientific research and other purposes. What is also important is that the data contained in the records is used by citizens and citizens to whom these data relate. I can say that the most important thing to do is that what is detailed in this law, is precisely defined by the recording and processing of medical data, which is also a prerequisite for effective management of the health system. This is the way to move forward with a really significant advance in technology and health, and this is how the health status of the population will be rationalised and better monitored. I think that's exactly the crucial thing this law does. Nothing less significant, I can also say that, first of all, the savings that are obtained through this law are savings on the one hand, and on the other hand that money will be directed again, where else, but in the health system, whether in the equipment, whether in the space or where it is needed. Finally, this is a law that creates preconditions for the establishment of a single information system that will allow a greater comfort to a patient on the one hand, but also more efficient health care staff work on the other. All of this, with the rationalisation and reduction of the number of members of the Governing and Supervisory Committee of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, can be said to indicate a significant dose of seriousness accessing health reform. Also, I would also like to thank the opposition colleagues who have understood the importance of both laws, of course not all, and have constructively joined this discussion. I'd quote Carl Gustav Jung who said that we can't change anything until we accept it and that the conviction doesn't release the oppressors. In this way, I can really commend the opposition MPs for accepting the inevitability of the changes and progressive ideas offered to them and the fact that together we have to change everything that was bad in health during the period of the former government. Also, I've heard here from earlier speakers about funding from the Republic Health Insurance Fund. I can say that much less the problem of transferring the funds of the Republic Health Insurance Fund to the PIO budget is much less the problem of systematically sucking money out of the Republic Health Insurance Fund and pouring it into individual pockets, which is what the public of the previous days is talking about. I think it's real. On the other hand, I can also conclude, on several occasions I have heard from my esteemed colleagues' mouths, that it is necessary to conduct an analysis of the costs of financial resources from the RFO budget and during the period of rule of the previous former government. I absolutely agree with that and it really needs to determine where these funds went, but I also have to quote Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev, who said that the truth that was not told at the right time was worse than lies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12931	Thank you. Is there anyone else, according to Article 96(4)? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, they want to use their time? The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. You have one minute and 50 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12932	In the end, I would like to state the position of the DS parliamentary group. So, for the bill on health records, we'll vote for if a few of those amendments, which essentially don't change the law, but that improves it, adopt it. In the end, I want to say that we absolutely agree with the desire to investigate corruption in the health sector. I invite you all to join us in this one battle of analysis where that money was poured out as far as the health sector is concerned. I've been asking that question in the past, and here I am asking it now. Many funds were taken, numerous loans were taken from the World Bank for the construction of clinical centres. Unfortunately, our hospitals are old. Unfortunately, there's been a lot of embezzlement, a lot of delays, a lot of rocking. It's not just for one clinical center, it's also the Clinical Center of Serbia and Vojvodina and the Low Clinical Center. Let's finally say the names of these people. Who are these people who've been spilling funds? I agree with some colleagues from the ruling party that something was spilling. Here, DS don't run away from that. We want to hear the names of these people and have them sanctioned. I personally don't want to bear the burden of anyone's responsibility. I know who I am and what I am and I know that there are no people in this group who resist such things to find out the truth about the crime that was committed, and I also doubt that it was done. I welcome your desire to take this one step and finally see these people and those directors of those health institutions that were then, whether or not they were responsible and whether the minister, one, the other, the third, who has been in that sector of the Ministry of Health since 2000 has made some kind of failure. In the end, I end up with the bill of health documentation being a modern and modern law, but there are a few things to be completed. As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12933	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12934	I don't have any more options? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12935	That's right. Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12936	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected to have a conversation with the Minister on this subject, but we'll probably be on the board when we talk about the amendments. What I would like to say is that I fully support the discussions of my predecessors concerning the establishment of illegal actions in the past that occurred in Serbian health, absolutely. One comment to you. This is the easiest you can see through the annual reports of the Republic Health Insurance Fund's branches, in a position where it is said to be a dispute of unintendedly spent funds. Here you can see what was who was doing and how much he was doing. A colleague from the Ministry knows very well, so it's very transparent in the RFO. Having a different opinion, everyone has the right to a different opinion. I think I'm right. After all, time will show who was right and who was only following the party's policy. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12937	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12938	First, I thank you for your discussion with everyone. What I'm saying is that these two laws that we're talking about today are only a prerequisite so that we can establish one system and start from this situation where Serbian health is located. So I repeat again, just a prerequisite to move on. In particular, for what is this a prerequisite? This is a prerequisite for making a single information system in Serbia's health in 2015. Because without a done information system, we can't even have insight or know how it works, how much it works, and what our health results are. I absolutely support the examination of where all the money was intended for health care ended. If I tell you that according to all the budgets, the money invested in information systems so far has been enough for us to be one of the most equipped systems in Europe, and the fact is that we are not equipped, but we are just equipping ourselves, and then you come and find a situation – what do you do? The amount of money was spent to do something, and that's not there. What's done? This system is broken, it's different from the hospital to the hospital, from home health care to home health care, the infirmary, and it doesn't work. So, you can't start over, nor do you have that system for anything now, for that right purpose, for Serbia's health system to move forward. We've come into a situation where we have to, it's like having branches, and now you have to tie them to one tree, put them together, and put them all together to make the most of what the money has already been spent on, and make a minimum investment now to tie it all up and make it work. What does it mean to us that it might work? It means next time. Here, you all mention that we should even private health care. Well, how are you going to even something up if you don't have a review of the situation, if you don't have a system where you know what's going on in the private sector? I'll remind you, a few weeks ago I was in a private meeting, people absolutely agreed. What are we going to do, whose responsibility is it to take today to make contracts with private clinics without enough information? When you sent a patient there, you paid, something happens, and what do we do, how do we do? How do we know what the capacities of these offices are? How do we know which frame they have when we don't have a regular who works where noon, who works where afternoons, who works on weekends and where he works? Let's see what we have and what we can count on. I really think this is the only way to build a system on some legal basis, to have a cross-section. Under this law we will have a cross-section in both state and private institutions and see what we have in both sectors, see where we have a lack of capacity in the state and where we can and what is best in the private sector to establish co-operation with them. But you agree that we can't do that ad hoc -- that's how we heard about some office, we heard about this. Well, remember what happened to artificial insemination, with private clinics. The results are the worst, the worst in Europe, and the highest prices. Where did they confess to us, at which association? Well, is that normal? Until yesterday, you told me that the Fund's work was bad, so we're going to change the system, and now you're saying it's a good fund. Let's just decide if he's good or bad, I don't mind. You told me yesterday that the Fund was bad, he got out of control and all of this. To establish a system, this is a prerequisite that we can include the private sector, have a review of the situation and create an information system for Serbia, because it will remain. We can't go on without it, because this can't work. I think you'll explore everything where that money was spent. When we establish that system, then we go to set prices, which are prices in the state sector, in the private sector. There's no reason for these prices to be different. Employment related. There will be health services and will be for the next week, for healthcare professionals, for doctors and medical staff, because we wanted to look into what we were missing, to make our system work. You mentioned - it will be an obstacle, we cannot hire people. No, we'll hire them next week. The Government Commission that exists will decide on our demands what we need from the staff to function. This has nothing to do with day-to-day politics right now. The system has to work, people have to be treated. That the salaries are small, they're small. We talked to the unions and we talked. People understand there's a problem. In 90% of the cases, we agree and the unions agree, most of the unions agree and the situation we are in and the moves we need to make. I understand the situation where the state and the budget are, but we'll be the first to, when we're in a better situation, to increase the salaries and everything else that we can, but until then we have to regulate these things that exist -- where we do, when we work, whether we're in the state in the morning, whether we're in private this afternoon. What does the state have to do with it? People pay for one insurance policy, mandatory, and then in the afternoon they pay for the private, and the state doesn't see it, it doesn't recognize it. Half goes to the office, half goes to the doctor, doesn't go anywhere. And then, are those salaries real? You have 90% of the cases, not to say 90%, I don't know, who only work for that salary, who can't go somewhere private to work. He who works early in the afternoon in the state, and in the afternoon in private, he takes his place, because in his place he would have to see someone from the bureau. What's the matter? What's the proven value in medicine? What's so controversial about going to the market and working in private? It can't be the investment of the state and the benefit of it. He works here this afternoon, and he's building a career and everything. These are our realities. It's reality, and this, once again, is a prerequisite to get us off the dead end. One more thing. We're currently in the evaluation photofine for this year, are we going to be the last? We're doing everything because it would be a historic success if we moved in a few months, we weren't in the last place. Health care isn't the kind of thing that has to do with day-to-day politics, because a normal man can't watch it like that. I guess everybody cares that people here have security. What are we gonna fight about, and what's the biggest fear in people? Well, for health and if he'll be able to get help. Is that the kind of example we should be sending out of here? Let's be constructive, let's make progress, today I'm here, tomorrow he's the problem. There must be a system, you have to get on the system and not think, just to improve, not collapse. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-04-0.u12939	I thank the minister. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 3 and 4 of the agenda. We move on to a joint single proposal on a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision to appoint a president and vice-president of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the motions for a decision set out in points 5 and 6 of the agenda, I remind you that the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they have already done so to report immediately with the order of MPs, these are points 5 and 6 of the agenda. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and vice-president of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no entries on the lists for a word and before the conclusion of a joint single search, do I ask if anyone who has not applied his right to Article 96 wants a word? Nobody. ) I am also concluding a joint single search for items 5 and 6 of the agenda. This is what we've done today's work. The session will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, according to amendments to the first two points of the agenda. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 105 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colakovic and Konstantin Arsenovic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON PUBLIC PUBLIC PUBLICAL MEETING, BEFORE WE CONTINUE THE WORK, allow me to welcome the students of the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, who are currently following a part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. Thank you. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, I have been invited by the Minister of Justice to attend today's session by Biljana Pavlovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Nela Kuburović, Assistant Minister of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinović, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Neđo Jovanovic, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Mr Dejan Capo and Ivan Jovanovic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic.
