ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10554	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 136 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Momo Colakovic, Borisav Kovacevic, Milena Turk, Meho Omerovic, Branko Djurović and Milorad Mijatovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON DOPING CONTRACTION IN SPORT According to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that, apart from the representatives of the promoters Vanja Udovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, I have also called on the sittings to attend, as well as Uroš Zekovic, the Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports and Zorica Nikodjevic, the Secretary of the Youth and Sports Ministry. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanović, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Branka Karavidićk, Dr Blaže Bradić, Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10555	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, in the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports, in Article 3(1) point 4), we wanted to amend point 4 so that – anti-doping rules exist in cases of non-compliance with the anti-doping rules laid down by the Anti-doping Agency, with regard to the availability of athletes from the registered test group for testing outside the competition, as well as to the non-providing of data on residence and missing published testing outside the competition in the period prescribed by the authorised Antidoping Organisation. We believe that any athlete at any level of competition to compete, that any athlete should be aware of the consequences that the use of doping funds can do to his further career. The bill stipulates that each athlete has the right to three non-fulfilment obligations to the Anti-doping organization, and we believe that this is too much, and that is what we said when we discussed this law in principle and we believe that any failure of obligations must be sanctioned. What we also have left unclear, what does it mean to be three connected times, if there can be three consecutive times, because then we would have to define what three unrelated times are?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10556	The word has a minister in the government, Vanja Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10557	We couldn't accept this amendment for a number of reasons. I'll try to explain it practically. This Article 3. point 4) has been taken over from the International Anti-doping Code, and on the one hand, we are conditioned to transfer it directly to our law, and what is true is that all the countries of the Convention on the Prevention of Doping in Sports have accepted, in full Article 3(4). This means that our athlete would be in a more difficult position than athletes in the world, because everywhere in the world, athletes have the right to three misfirings, and with us if they put one, namely what we fight for, it's equality and equality in the event of our athlete having a difficult environment and being sanctioned after the first non-fulfilment. If three are allowed at the world international level, I believe that they would be, as the only country to accept such an amendment and change Article 3(4), and yet it is impossible to accept it because of the World Anti-doping Code and what the international institution is ordering us to do, i.e. Not an institution, but an International Anti-doping Agency. By doing so, it would make it difficult for our athletes to participate, i.e. In international competitions, we would not be able to organise international competitions. That's why we can't accept it, just because of the equality of athletes in the world and our athlete here. I repeat, all the countries have accepted three, and we don't think it would be good. What the current law and code requires are three tied up in 18 months by a new code to be entered from 1.1.2015 is reduced to 12 months. So three injuries, three minuses in 12 months is considered a violation of the anti-doping rule. We have not accepted your amendment because of all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10558	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10559	I'll repeat my question again. Three times in 12 months three tied or consecutive? Three consecutives. There's a difference between tied and consecutive.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10560	The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10561	The real three are related to failures, so it's taken over, it's such a commitment, and it has to be strictly written like that in this way. We can't play with these things, because Article 3 directly conditiones the organisation of international competitions, and with us, and the participation of our athletes in international competitions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10562	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I ask my colleagues not to play with the electronic system. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Blagoja Bradic, Marko Djurisic and Biljana Hasanovic – Korac. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 4th Amendment were brought together by the MPs... Does anyone want a word, I apologize? Just a minute. Please reapply. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10563	Dear Minister, the Honorable Chairman, I wanted to report to you on the first amendment, that is, Article 3 and I've been looking for a word for a long time, but you probably haven't seen it, so if I may ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10564	Mr. Markovic, I've seen you try to log into the electronic system and at the same time delete the application. That's why I asked my fellow MPs not to play with the electronic system. So, the moment I concluded the debate on the first amendment to the bill in the electronic system, there was no application.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10565	Just because I tried to sign up multiple times, you didn't see why I might have pressed twice...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10566	I cannot return now, so I concluded the debate under the amendment and moved to the amendment to Article 3, which was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Blagoja Bradic, Marko Djurisic and Biljana Hasanovic-Korać. You can talk about that amendment, and the question is the same article.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10567	No, I wanted to talk about the first one.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10568	I can't give you my word. I can't do business. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10569	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, I'd like to explain a little bit what this is about in our amendment. So, we've made an amendment that refers to an anti-doping rule that actually determines cases of anti-doping rules. We understand, and you yourself said a few minutes ago that the provisions of this law were literally taken over from the code, from the convention, so that in the descriptive section where individual members are explained, it literally states that members from one to five, are mostly taken from the code, from the declaration. So our intention was just to try to specify in Article 3 paragraph 1 point 5. It was simply illogical for us to have the word "unauthorized" in that formulation. In fact, I can only come to the conclusion that we understand each other perfectly in the principle debate, and it's good that you accepted our suggestion thanks.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10570	Thank you. Anyone else answer for a word after the amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidić, Dr Blagoje Bradic, Marko Djurisic and Biljana Hasanovic-Korać. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidić, Dr Blagoje Bradic, Marko Djurisic and Biljana Hasanovic-Korac. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10571	Thank you. In the principle debate, the most words regarding our parliamentary group were just on Article 10, so in Article 10, paragraph 5, we envisaged that it was the obligation of the national sports alliances to bring the anti-doping programme into action and to deliver it to the Agency. It's kind of normal for the agency to have insight into what they're doing to the alliance, and I think that adopting this amendment will only contribute to the efficiency and improvement of the work of the alliance, and, of course, to increasing their responsibilities in relation to the subject we're talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10572	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10573	I want to thank you for the constructive suggestions and suggestions you've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10574	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10575	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed citizens of Serbia who are monitoring this transmission, my colleague has already noted the importance of this article 10th, and we have, as she said, had a long debate over it. What was concluded on the first day, I would in short lines, related to this member and repeat, that was that I had invested in the ministry's efforts, all what the Agency for the Combating Doping of the Republic of Serbia did was in some way disavised because the 2005 legislation could not strictly oblige and force the alliances of the Republic of Serbia to apply everything the agencies gave to the ministry. So they acted as an autonomous system within a complex system. With this law, I hope, and also with these changes that we have given in order to take a different look at the same problem and improve it, I hope that the sports alliances will no longer have the opportunity to go deaf about what the Ministry of Sports and Anti-doping agencies say and thus we will do largely what we agreed on on the first day, which is that we act preventively because we said that anti-doping control and the application of anti-doping rules is directed and directed towards preserving fair play in sport and preserving the health of athletes which is extremely important. So we covered one big, one big field of athletes in Serbia, it's a semi-professional and professional sport. The only part that remains is the part called school sport, which is the base of both semi-professional and professional sport where we have agreed that they are inescapable, it is also necessary to include the work of sports medicine specialists because they are most invited to act in preserving the health of athletes, that there are no more unloved scenes that have occurred in the past. Not because pediatricians or primary health care is not working, but because of your information periodical examinations are in the first, third, fifth, seventh and third grade secondary schools, and these are general examinations that have basic health care towards our children who are of school age, and sports medicine specialists can aim to examine athletes depending on sports, from burdens, to monitor their development of health and development of organisms, which is very important because no pediatrician will send every child to ekg, to ultra sound, while let's say some child who is involved in sports, who requires exceptional physical efforts such as water polo, handball, football and not to list, it is necessary to do such tests to see the condition of the organism and whether it can bear that burden. I hope you will regularly report to the Assembly on the application of this law. This objection to a sublegal act that should show us how you're going to apply this law, we don't, but there's also a commendation that you're one of the few ministries that gave this law in normal procedure, without emergency procedure, with a public debate, so you've tried to make sure that the law you're proposing is generally adopted, which is the aim of every law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10576	Comrade Bradic, I'm just asking you to state if you've been using the time foreseen for an authorised representative or a member of the Parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10577	Authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10578	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Udovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10579	I want to thank you and to say that what you have stated is precisely recognized by this law and I believe that this is an obligation for each and every one of us, and we will deal with the changes and additions of the Sport Act in more detail. I have to inform you that we sent you a report from a public hearing, as I promised two days ago, and the sublaws are being passed by the Anti-Doping Agency, and we'll be monitoring whether they did everything in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10580	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10581	It is good that you have accepted and added to Article 10 of point 18) in the position of 1 which actually obliges sports alliances to promote strengthening the value of sports ethics, fair-playing and the health of athletes. I think, together with the Ministry, the sports alliances would have an obligation to, apart from the periodic report on the state of sports, have that educational feature. It's a good thing you accepted this amendment. As regards the position of the 2nd same member, we have settled in the debate in principle and at the end of Article 10(2) provides for sanctions to be imposed on alliances which do not comply with these provisions. We also wondered whether sanctions would be applied only if certain points of separation were applied or not, so that we did, for this purpose, an amendment adding the word “all”, which implies that all sports alliances had an obligation to apply all the provisions of this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10582	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10583	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues have explained to a greater extent this amendment that practically extends responsibility for implementing these measures to all sports organisations. Kolega Bradić talked about fair-playing and the fact that sports spirit, competition in a healthy atmosphere should be driven by all spheres of society, so from kindergarten, school, sports clubs and the social community. Of course there is a country in that part. Of course, we can hardly close our eyes to the problems that we as a society have with the state of sports and the fact that the state does not have adequate mechanisms to govern order in sport and to respect the laws of this country, that the guilty of criminal, criminal and other acts that threaten this fair-play, but not only that, endangering the country's reputation, threaten...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10584	Mr. Veselinović, I ask you to return to the amendment. The bill of law is not related to the law of violence in sport, so please return to the amendment and topic, that is, the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10585	Mr. Arsic, many, if you followed this discussion, when they spoke about anti-doping, or fighting evil in a sport called doping, said it was not an exceptional field which is unrelated to sport itself. If you don't let me explain why all the sports alliances should be involved in this, so that some people who have committed crimes, and because of which our sports organization, society and state have suffered damage, appear again at sporting events, besides the police, in addition to services that don't work, and there's a minister of sports, and it certainly would be... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10586	Mr. Veselinović, I would very much like to give you the opportunity to talk about this, but you are forcing me to violate the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The subject of today's amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law to prevent doping in sports. It has nothing to do with violence at sports events and events. It's a special law that regulates the area. If there are any changes and they add that law, I will be very happy to allow you to talk accordingly. Here is now the proposal for a law on the prevention of doping in sport, concerning amendments to Article 10, which were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Blagoja Bradic, Marko Djurisic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac, who was accepted by the government and became an integral part of the bill. Please either return to that amendment or give up any further discussion. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10587	Thank you, Vice President Arsic. You are very correct and conduct this session in a correct manner and have always given both the position and the opposition the opportunity to give their views on certain social issues that have to do with the topic under discussion today. Here today, as we can see, the Minister of Sports and he is certainly ready to discuss a topic that has to do with sports, which has to do with fighting evil in sports, doping and which is causing results for those who didn't deserve it. I am sure that even today you will have an understanding of the opposition, as you do according to your position, that we explain our amendment in a time that we do not use as neither a breach of the Rules of Procedure nor as a replica, we ask the minister what happened yesterday at a sports event at a match between Serbia and Albania?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10588	I think you asked the wrong minister, but good. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic together submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. That the line wants a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10589	Dear Ministers, in the debate we had two days ago, I tried to point out the importance of applying this law, in the sense that it is fully respected, above all, the point of the 10th point that we talked about today, that is to try in that part of cooperation or the activities of the Olympic Union, sports organisations, associations and so on, to raise all capacities, so that their participation, or their coverage in the application of this law, could be raised to as high a level as possible. I pointed out one more thing about first of all the abuse of minors, or children who are engaged in top sports, which, in various circumstances and situations, go through a difficult period and situations. I thought that this particular article was either to be precise or this last part to be thrown out, because it's too high. Article 16 refers primarily to disciplinary measures which are pronounced for infringement of the anti-doping rules. I agree with this formulation, which is mentioned in this first part, but the final view says that the measures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 5 of this Article will not be made if the person accused of breaking the anti-doping rules prove not to be wrong, i.e. there was no intention or negligence. With this amendment, I wanted to draw attention to the need to or to specify specific situations that involve guilt, or to prove that it is not someone's fault or that this part should be thrown out, because it is a clear enough formulation that says it is not guilty. In your explanation that I have read, you are referring to the antidoping code and other acts that are related to this topic and to this issue. What was my intention is to point out maybe it's not just about intent or negligence, relative evidence of intent or negligence, but there are other circumstances, such as abuse, that may remain on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10590	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10591	It is not clear to us, therefore, that I should refer to this amendment in Article 16, how, in what way will you succeed in the disciplinary procedure to measure, or that there was no intention or negligence? How can someone put a formula this wide in practice? I understand that Mr. Zekovic, who has been very professional, has written great arguments that reject the opposition's proposals, probably told him – see that what the yellow ones are proposing refuses everything. But, DS, right now, we're wondering how you're going to determine that he had no intention or negligence, except that the athlete in this case is going to say-- I didn't mean, my mother, I had no idea what I was taking? It is so wide-ranging, therefore inapplicable, inaccurate and unnecessarily, as Mr Markovic has already said. You always have this need to add more words to a particular proposal, probably in order to cover what you haven't essentially changed in the bill itself. We believe that this removal would not "in a political sense" cost the government much. They'd disable something that's pointless, unnecessary, another thousand words that you throw into the legal proposal. You, Minister, know that you are here as a representative of the government and this is your portfolio and you answer to our, let me say, professional political offer to amend an act. Today, however, the whole world is talking about yesterday's unpleasant event at JNA Stadium. I know it's not a topic, but I'm asking you to look back on giving us some vision, because you're covering youth and sports. Both elements are included in yesterday's silent event. Believe me, he understands the procedure and I really apologize to you and the chairman, but it seems to me, it's an unsustainable situation that you and I are talking about something that's important for the legal regulation of drug prevention in sport, and that you, at the same time, as a political figure, are a couple of excellants, who I think is a champion but in a pool, and not in a government, that you don't look back on what happened yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10592	Please, Mr. Stefanovic. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 106 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which predicts that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I understand the need for former regime MPs to politically abuse any bill that comes before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but I think that you, Mr. Chairman, should point out the gentlemen who led this country by 2012 as rules in parliament and what can be spoken of. You've made good attention that on the agenda is not a draft law to prevent violence in sport, but a bill to ban and use doping in sport. What Mr. Stefanovic was talking about has nothing to do with the agenda. What is interested in the SNS parliamentary group is that Mr Stefanovic tells us how much car repair costs A6, which has crashed, and what is the property of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10594	Right now you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10595	Just one sentence. If Mr Stefanovic has the right to ask questions to Mr Udovic, I am now asking him on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, how much will it cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the taxpayers what he has broken... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10596	Mr. Martinovic, about your advertising of the Rules of Procedure, I believe and considered the discussion led by Mr. Stefanovic that he called on the minister to explain what happened yesterday. I also don't mind if you, along with Mr. Stefanovic, step outside this room and talk about these issues. As I see that it has gone to some during which it can disrupt order at the session, I ask all fellow Members of Parliament to bring all their discussions and objections related to the conduct of the session, i.e. infringements of the Rules of Procedure in the manner provided for by the Rules of Procedure. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10597	It is already said by the New Party that this is an excellent law, you have all the compliments, which is prepared in a way that should be prepared and other laws, which are duly explained, which has its constitutional and legal basis both in domestic law and in international regulations that define it. The explanation was excellent. The answers to the amendments are very good, with some amendments realistically being able to fix this law and amendment to Article 16, as proposed by colleagues, is just an example. Your argument that this is not in line with the International Doping Convention is not good enough. It does not prevent us from strengthening our sentences, watching our society, our experiences, how we look at ourselves, and how others look at us. I think it's a good opportunity now to step up the criminal measures in a way that this formula that relativates penalties is being thrown out. I'm sure you won't have any problem with international organisations dealing with this job, and I even think it might be a precedent to give them a guideline on how to deal with these situations more sharply. I think this is a good opportunity for both you and the entire government, no matter what I say from the opposition position, to do something that will be a good law improved in an adequate way as an example to the world that something should be done. I think it would be good for you to make an effort and do a good job like this the best way, by accepting this amendment as well. I don't want to talk about what happened last night, but it's certainly not the minister's fault, nor do I think he should be expressed in any way about this incident or what we're going to call it. There are others who need to say something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10598	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Violet Lutovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10599	Thank you. I believe that the amendment to Article 16, where it is stated that after proving that the athlete is not guilty, you need to exclude the sentence that there was no intention or negligence with him, I disagree with this for one simple reason, and it will be clearer to you when I say it to you as a doctor. What, say, in case a athlete goes to his doctor who prescribes betablocker therapy? That athlete doesn't have to know it's a forbidden substance, on the one hand. On the other hand, what if there was a leak from the team doctor? I believe that when implementing disciplinary measures, in that case, we cannot observe a sportsman who has consciously taken any prohibited substance from a sportsman who, for example, had a lack of attention or a lack of education by a doctor, by not knowing a doctor, in this criticism of my colleagues, had a forbidden substance in his sample. There should certainly be consequences, because it is not right, and it is a violation of the anti-doping rules, but I certainly do not think that it should be equally classified as a violation of athletes in either case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10600	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister Udovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I think it is very important that we focus our attention seriously on this amendment, which is proposed to change in one part of Article 16 with one previous note. I must repeat once again that this is a good bill and we will vote in favour of this law, but we believe that this law should be complemented by this amendment of Article 16 and I would ask for just a little attention in order to have a serious debate which is why we consider it very important. Just one more addition. There are rare examples that someone from the government comes here so well prepared to explain the contents of the bill, and even more rarely that the arguments, whether they are accepted or rejected, are so precise and accurate. I will also try to be precise and accurate in trying to convince you to accept this amendment. What's this about? It's about Article 16, just to make it clear to all of us, since I have here, Mr. Minister, sometimes experience that some MPs don't read what it's all about, so now there's attention just so everyone knows. Article 16 says this - the disciplinary measures which are imposed on the purpose of infringement of the anti-doping rules are that, that and that. Then we have an attitude 3 in Article 16 in which it writes - the measures referred to in paragraphs 1 to 5 of this article will not be expressed if the person accused of violating the anti-doping rules prove that it is not wrong, commad, or that there was no intention or carelessness. What is this amendment about? I think it's a very meaningful amendment. The point is that this part after the seal is "that there was no intention or care" should be deleted, because the interpretation of this amendment is also said – so how, now, on the basis of which criteria and criteria to determine whether there was intention, or whether there was negligence or not. I also read the explanation that came from the Ministry and the explanation says so, so to cross that, it says – if we accepted this amendment, then in Article 16 of this bill, we would now have a formulation that would not be in line with the provisions of the World Anti-doping Code, which regulates the determination of the level of punishment, according to which intent or negligence, regardless of the guilt, defines the severity of sanctions and only sanctions. So I understand it like this. It is the intention of the legislator that the contents of this bill be absolutely consistent with what is written in the World Anti-doping Code. I now have two notes, as additional reasons to accept this amendment. The first note says this - if we should just rewrite the document called the World Antidoping Code, then let's not take the law, let's rewrite it and adopt the code and say, we've adapted to the code. So I don't agree that we should write the law so that just something, not something, is passed on from one document to our law. I think that this type of copying approach isn't good, and if the copying approach isn't good, that means that we can change something that would be consistent with our living, working, acting, sports, etc., which would respect some of our specificities, and our specificity is that when we respect intent or negligence, it creates various possibilities for abuses, curves, we understand, I think here. The other thing, as far as this amendment is concerned, is that not only should we not prescribe, but I think that we here need to clearly show that the most important thing here is for an athlete, who wants to fight honestly, so congratulations, that he himself must be referred to rules and regulations. Of course, he has a doctor who will remind him, which are rules, which are regulations, etc., but not knowing the rules and rights damage, and a athlete should also bear some kind of responsibility for knowing what the rules are in the context of the discipline he deals with and in sport in general. That's why I think we have strong reasons, Mr. Widow, to accept this amendment to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10602	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10603	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, members of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, I think, as well as my colleague, that this amendment should not be accepted, that the government's argument is quite appropriate, in the sense of rejecting this amendment, especially if there is knowledge, which my colleague has now been trying to force this amendment to be accepted. There's a lot of technical details, starting with doctors, and there's doctors who are unconscious. Of course, the doctor is obliged to explain athletes, especially when it comes to injury, when it comes to competition in a tournament sense, international competition, where games are played every day or every other day. There's therapy, I wouldn't exactly take an example of beta-blocker, but there are means where you take your temperature down for one day, etc. So he has to warn the athlete of anything that could lead to positive anti-doping control. I think this argument is quite appropriate, that this amendment should be accepted, and as far as education at all levels is concerned, especially in smaller environments and continuous education should be conducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10604	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10605	Thank you, Madam President. I join the evaluations that we should not accept the amendment drawn up in this way. I think we've heard very clearly the reasons for this attitude. The example relating to medical practice directly answers the question of what these situations would really be necessary, not only because of the international organisation's position, but also because of the need for practice, to really distinguish the situation in which the existence or absence of the intention is figurative. Namely, an example that we had the opportunity to hear, as regards the medical treatment of a sportsman or an example of the presence of certain substances in the body in a athlete, to determine this by an adequate test, is a fact-finding situation. If we leave a formula that someone is free of responsibility just by proving that they are not guilty, and we have factual proof that certain substances have been found, then is his position reduced to the ungrateful role of someone to prove that it is not the exact result of the test, which is black to white accurate? There's something else playing here, if there was any intention. One example you've heard. Second case. There's an intoxication through, say, a diet provided by someone who's a member of the expert staff who takes care of athletes. Without any knowledge of this athlete, without any desire to get into such a situation, and in a situation where I am a athlete, he is unable to follow and, by being safe and counting, determines in time, react, say, food refuses. We had a question – how do we determine the absence of intent? It's very simple. I don't think it's hard to imagine a procedure, where after it was found that through the diet there were certain substances entering the organism, one who, for example, took responsibility for the security of that diet, to say yes, and that happened. As a result, the context and opportunity of what would, even though certain tests have identified the presence of some substances in the organism, have actually been an extenuating circumstance for a sports worker, even the circumstances that would deprive him of his guilt, which would be fair in such a situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10606	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10607	I would like to thank the President. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, I think that when an expert is looking at the situation relating to the bill itself in relation to the amendment, which the law allegedly wants to be corrected, that is, where to intervene, in addition to the medical profession, something should be said in any case by the legal profession. Since I do not want to claim that I am a legal conscience, I want to point out something that is unequivocally clear, which is that legal institutes are intents and negligence in fact institutes that have been applied by analogy in other areas of the law which are procedural and legal nature, i.e. material-legal nature. In particular, the Criminal Code, as well as the Law on Violation, which also has procedural provisions. Why am I saying this? The intention is something that's against the law. The intention can be proven. And the question is, what are these parameters for proving your intentions? Then we can also say that the court proves its intention for the perpetrator of a crime who has deliberately committed a crime? If someone purposely did something, it means that his consciousness was already focused on wanting it, and then it means that it works in a dubious way. How do you look at carelessness? Analoglyze. If negligent is some milder form of wine, then here attention is something that implies some kind of milder degree. In that direction, I see no single reason to change this part of the law in Article 16, given that in a legal sense they would come into a single problem, because the evidence procedure implies the possibility of a athlete to prove that his intention and his consciousness were not focused on illegal action. If this is demonstrated by appropriate means of proof that have the necessary force of proof, it is logical that it will not fall under this qualification and will not be sanctioned in the manner provided for in the provision of Article 16. I therefore support both the argument and, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I believe that a high-quality article of the 16th law is written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10608	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10609	Thank you, President. President, you're a lawyer, and there's a lot of people who are lawyers. I don't think this is just about copying the convention right now, but this thing isn't about our criminal justice system. As anyone who deals with criminal law knows, imagination can be direct and possible. In this first, there is awareness of something and acceptance that it happens. In any case, there is awareness and easy to hold that it will not happen. The intention is exactly what my predecessor was saying that there was a focused awareness of something. Nehath, and it's indifference, it's the same thing, there's unless there's consciousness, and there's a duty for someone to be conscious, and then it's proven that when there's no one else, then it's not guilty, which it says here. I don't understand how you can put in this article the same indiscretion and intent and who visited a trial so he proved or defended himself against evidence, how is someone here going to sue to defend himself? It's not clear to me at all why you're putting in other institutes when there's in our criminal law with a very long tradition completely clear and defined everything about the subjective work of being a criminal, and imagination and deniability and intent? Why don't you in one sport law not use the institutes of a long criminal and legal tradition, but prescribe something that has a tradition in some other rights and produce very big problems in application? If you wanted to punish someone who only deliberately took doping funds, you should have written it. If you wanted something else, you should have done it with the criminal rights institutes that exist in this country, so help me God, there's almost two centuries here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10610	Thank you. No more reports. On Article 24 of the amendment, they put together... Minister, do you want to? (National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, from the place: I want to. ) The same is true, I will let you go because I have failed to read the next page, as the vice president said, please report in time, unable to preside over whether anyone in the head is thinking of answering or not. It's for everyone. It's not the minister. They'll know the others. Minister, will you answer in the end, let another MP go, because you can only do it once? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government's argument is quite in place, and I don't think Mr. Dusan Petrovic is quite right. Here's why. He said exactly that imagination could be, Mr. Petrovic came back, I'm glad, direct and possible. That's true, but he's mixed up any imagination with inadequacy. What he was saying refers to indiscretion, Mr. Petrovic. A direct imagination exists when you know that by your actions or inaction you can cause a crime and you want to execute it. A possible imagination exists when you know that by your actions or inaction you can commit a crime, so you agree to have a forbidden consequence, and the suspension is what you were talking about with a possible imagination, you know that something can happen which is contrary to the law but you easily hold that it will not happen. So that's the first mistake you've made. You've mixed up any imagination and negligentness, probably because for a while you're not a lawyer, but politics, so you've faded a little bit of knowledge about it, but it's not a big deal. What I was about to say, and it's about Article 16, Mr. Petrovic said the terms of criminal law should be used here. Article 16 makes it very clear – the disciplinary measures that are pronounced for breach of the anti-doping rules are, then listed, one, two, three, four, five. So this isn't about criminal sanctions. This is about disciplinary measures, which, you'll admit, is a fundamental and drastic difference. What did the government want with this, and why does the SNS parliamentary group feel that the government's argument is in place? First of all, what Mr. Udovicic said, the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is absolutely correct. We have an obligation as a state to comply with our legislation with the international standards that apply in this area and there is no doubt that this law does so. Of course, this law didn't crack any of the World Code. This law is the law in the classical sense of that word. It contains legal norms like any other law that has been passed or will be brought into this National Assembly. I don't understand how to bring something into line with international standards, and we don't accept in any of the laws any wording contained in the World Ethics Code. That part I don't understand. What the government has also noticed exactly and what the SNS parliamentary group supports is that one person can be wrong if he acts either out of intent or out of negligence. Apparently, the government here wanted to sharpen the blame, so she said - the face is wrong if it acts either out of intent or out of care. The government's intensity, if I understand it correctly, is going towards tightening the responsibility of the people who use it, or athletes who use illicit doping funds. So the government has made it very clear – the person is responsible if he acts either deliberately or out of care. You now want to delete this – deliberately or for lack of attention from me completely unknown reasons. This isn't about mere copying. This is about determining guilt. So it's someone's fault if they act either deliberately or out of interest and the SNS supports it, because tomorrow you can get into a situation to say -- I didn't do it on purpose, I didn't know, someone talked me into it, I wasn't directed enough, etc. You can practically call anyone and then, in practice, you can get into a very strange situation. No one will say that he deliberately used doping funds, he can always say – so I didn't know, I didn't have enough information whether something was banned or not. The government's motion completely divulges any suspicion, so either you deliberately did or out of care. If we delete these words that you propose to delete, we will come into a situation that in practice absolutely will not make any sense, or there will be a whole series of abuses. This is neither the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to allow, and therefore we support the full explanation the government has given why it does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10612	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Petrovic, a replica, because a colleague misread your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10613	I would not now, Mr. Martinovic has a constant need to express something here, but he has nothing to do with the Serbian Progressive Party, nor with the minister, there is a political figure in his field here. It just has to do with how this is going to apply in life. Now if we're going to get into something that I think is a serious thing, so first there's a presumption of guilt for someone who's suspected of something, which is contrary to our legal principles and the legal principles of the civilized world, because it says that measures will be made against the person, or they won't be spoken unless that person accused of breaking the anti-doping rules proves that it's not wrong. I guess someone needs to prove that he's guilty, the one who's suspected of something, not the other way around. So that's one thing. The second thing, no longer to go into the burden of this number of MPs and the public, so let's see what the difference between direct imagination and intent is, is there any difference in criminal law theory or is there no difference? Of course he does. If you're saying that someone, if they prove they're not guilty, shouldn't be held accountable, then what will further explain both intent and one imagination and the other imagination and negligence that is unsustainable? Then there's nothing fourth. If someone proves he's not guilty, then he's certainly not careless, nor has he done anything on purpose, so this is, as I would say, an excess formulation, if there's any further need to deal with this logic here. So it's going to be very difficult to apply this provision, and it's going to be the first time you're going to meet this procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10614	Just tell me, did you use your right to reply or did you discuss the amendment? Replica. Okay. The word has a People's MP, Nejo Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10615	Thank you, President, for the amendment again, ahead of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group. Today, citizens were able to hear in fact three opinions from three lawyers. But in order for Serbian citizens not to be confused with the legal theory, let's now simplify this problem and start with something that is elemental. First and foremost, is doping against the law? Yes, and there's absolutely no dilemma. If it's illegal and illegal, does that mean it has to be punishable? Absolutely correct. Does this mean that sanctions or punishment must be prescribed in that situation? It's true, and you've prescribed it. You've systematiced it in the provisions of the law. If what is penally stated taxively in the law, then the penalty systems are clearly built and what is most important for the citizens to know is the following – if someone has already submitted to doping and against it an appropriate procedure for the determination of doping and this, as we have heard from excellent doctors, is determined in an exact way, then the burden of proof must be on athletes that doping has been used in a way that implies that it is legitimate and that he did not know that it is illegal. In that case, did he treat his attention? Well, and if he missed something, and he couldn't miss it, he was obliged to eliminate it in any way, he's responsible again, he has to bear the proper sanctions again. Not to mention the intention, I won't talk about imagination, either directly or possibly. The burden of proof here must be on the athlete – why he drank something, why he ate something, why he used a supplement, whether he knew it was a supplement or not. In this situation, there is simply no need to confuse the citizens, it is quite clear that what is illegal must be sanctioned, that there must be a proof procedure, that in this evidence procedure is the person who, conditionally said, is charged with having the right to defend himself, and through that defense to present evidence and that evidence to contest claims whether he is guilty or not guilty. It's a perfectly clear thing, and I don't think there's really any need to continue to lead the controversy of this rather clean situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10616	Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, by amendment or replica? You have the right to a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10617	Thank you, Madam President. We have proved that Mr. Dusan Petrovic does not know what the difference between imagination and inadequacy is. What I'm saying is, what's more important, let's look at this thing a little bit wider. There's a minister who was a professional athlete, so let him correct me if I'm wrong. This law is firstly passed because of those who are professionally engaged in sports. So, a professional athlete and how to find out what's allowed and what's not allowed. This law is not passed because of children 12 to 16 years of age playing football in a zone league, this law is primarily passed to prevent doping in professional sports, where high-end results are achieved. I hope we agree on that. What particular situation is this? It is that the athlete was subject to doping control and it has been found that in his blood or urine there are illicit means which are provided for in the relevant rules as doping. So, there's something about a man that's not allowed, and now you're saying -- but there's a presumption of innocence. The presumption of innocence applies in criminal law, but it can't apply here because this isn't criminal-legal matter, that's what this is about. As you say, yes, an anti-doping agent was found in my blood or urine, but you prove it wasn't my fault. That's completely pointless. He needs to prove that he is not guilty because in his body fluid, blood or urine, there is an appropriate doping agent. You are constantly mixing criminal-legal matter with one substance that has nothing to do with criminal law, which is very clear from article 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10618	The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic, as a proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10619	I'll try to explain it practically. Here is the essence of the punishment, whether the athlete had any intention or not to use an illicit doping substance. The athlete who used and had the knowledge that he was using, there's a proven intention, and that's not a question. When we talk about carelessness, he may have used some sort of supplementation that was contaminated with an illicit substance. Here, if we're talking, we're talking about the level of punishment, because it can't be the same treatment for a sportsman who used some kind of sublimation uncanny, and he didn't have any knowledge that she was contaminated with an illicit substance. Yesterday, all day long, we had a wide range of consultations compared to this amendment. We've been consulting the International Anti-doping Agency since you've given the suggestion of a precedent. They specifically asked for it to stay this way. I'll also read you their explanation, just because we wanted to make things a little bit harsh, but we didn't have a chance to get into this sort of thing at all, and the code is part of the international convention and of course some things are binding and some things are being copied, some things absolutely don't. Because some things are absolutely not prescribed, because we did yesterday even consult with the International Anti-doping Agency. The World Anti-doping Code recognises the difference in the level of the measures expressed in relation to whether or not the athlete has violated the rule of intent or not, as Article 16 paragraph 2 is prescribed – the person responsible for the infringement of the anti-doping rules, the measures laid down in Article 1 of this Article are expressed in accordance with the sport rules of the relevant national sports alliances. Given that Article 10(4) provides that the sport rules of the national sports alliances referred to in point 1 of Article 1 of this Article must comply with the rules of the World Anti-doping Code and the relevant international sports alliances, it is necessary for the member to remain in the proposed form in order to comply with the World Anti-doping Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10620	Minister, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10621	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10622	Thank you. Ambassador Petrovic, on what basis are you answering? I can do it by amendment, and I can't do it on the line. [[Dusan Petrovic, from place: Either replica or by amendment.]] Only if you think you need to answer what counterpart Martinovic said that you do not know the difference between imagination and inadequacy? You want to get the amendment? (Dusan Petrovic, from the post: I want to respond to my colleague Martinovic. ) Replica, two minutes, to hear the difference between imagination and inadequacy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10623	So, don't leave any loose ends. This has nothing to do with criminal law alone, this is a matter of every criminal law, both criminal and criminal and disciplinary. Everyone who went to school was watching a bar if they weren't subject to some disciplinary procedure in the class community. Well, that's a lot more banal than these serious things are here. Well, somebody's got to charge you or say you're suspicious of something, so they can prove it. So it's a fundamental thing in all criminal proceedings, not just criminal proceedings. So, so that there's no confusion here amongst the citizens, I'm still staying on the stand that if someone proves they're not guilty, then I don't think there's any need for these forms of wine to be shown any further. You, Mr. Minister, have your views on it. This isn't about what you fully explain and life-saving. And of course it's about the height of the punishment. Well, there can be no punishment for someone who did something on purpose or in one way or another, so it happened to him. He must be punished differently, but it's not a subject and it's not at all a topic to burden people further. That's why people go to law schools and figure this stuff out. Who did a little business and who ever got into the courtroom knows what I'm talking about, so I don't need to discuss it any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10624	Dr. Alexander Martinovic, on what basis do you answer because the replica on the replica cannot? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: By amendment. You can do it by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are SNS MPs here who went to, as the honourable speaker said, some law school, only I at no law school have heard that a disciplinary procedure is being conducted in court. I know there's a criminal case going on in court, there's a lawsuit going on, there's an executive procedure going on, there's an outsider procedure going on, but I haven't heard that the judge is running a disciplinary case against someone who used some kind of doping agent. The Serbian Progressive Party simply wants to point out that the government's argument is fully in place and that those behind this amendment on the one hand do not understand the need for the Republic of Serbia to comply with its legislation in the area of banning doping, while on the other hand making major legal mistakes by looking at this matter through the prism of criminal law, which is absolutely out of place. This is about a disciplinary procedure. The disciplinary procedure cannot be applied literally to the criminal law institute, nor was the government of the Republic of Serbia intended to do so. If such an intention existed either with the Government, and ultimately with relevant international organisations, there would be no use of terms - intent and indifference, but use of criminal and legal concepts – imagination and negligentness. So, here it's quite clear what it is, it's a disciplinary responsibility that is not determined in any court... (Dusan Petrovic, from the city: English law. So, you, Mr. Petrovic, have now become an expert on English law. Great, just tell me in what English court...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10626	Please do not address any MP individually, but to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10627	Here, I learned something new, Mrs. Gojkovic, so I'm always glad to learn something new, to conduct disciplinary proceedings in English courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10628	It's been two minutes and 11 seconds. You asked for an amendment or a replica, since everything's mixed up now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10629	I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10630	You can go free if you're wasting your time on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10631	So, the Serbian Progressive Party supports the government's argument and we will not accept this amendment. We believe that what the Government has proposed in Article 16 is absolutely in the interest of and sport in general, but also of each individual athlete, as an important measure of warning that top sports results cannot be achieved using banned doping.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10632	Thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a magistrate, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10633	Dear Minister, we also mentioned this issue and this topic two days ago in the principle debate. Of course, we had in mind and the reasoning given in the Bill's proposal, in the sense that the Agency which has so far led the doping and anti-doping activities, as regards the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Sports, has done well, has done well, and that all international institutions have been satisfied with this agency. Given that between 2005 and 2013 and the Sports Federation and the Ministry made a significant contribution to the involvement of our society in international flows together with the Agency and to contribute to the fight against doping on a global scale, I felt it was good to remain 13 representatives, or 13 members of the Management Board, and to make savings in this agency, or on this committee, in line with the government's intensities. I also felt that, as was also my proposal, I should consider changing the structure of the board members. I'm going back to Article 10 again, and I'm going back to this need to make as many sports clubs, organizations, associations and associations as possible to engage in these activities, which will work on their plans and programmes that will be in line with this law and with the activities of the Ministry. In this regard, I felt that it might be necessary to add proposals to increase the number of people in the Management Board from the Sports Federation or other organisations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10634	Thank you. The word is Vanja Udovici. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10635	The International Convention prescribed complementary responsibility for public authorities and sports organisations. So far there have been 13 because of the abolition of Serbia's Sports Association, but taking into account the size and importance of primarily the number of experts in this area of Serbia's Olympic Committee and the Sports Union, we are unable to accept this amendment because we believe that as many sports experts as possible are needed, and thus increases in some ways the number of public authorities experts. But since it is a delicate question, the question of our nation's health and our children, we think that really as many experts as possible should participate in the decision-making and prevention of such a negative phenomenon, and that is why we are in the belief that the number of members of 15 is satisfactory if there is talk about the Board of Directors of the Antidoping Agency itself. I must also point out that the Management Board has met at least twice, and in practice it has proved four times a year to meet and members of the Management Board are paid by session, by session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10636	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10637	Mr. Minister, I appreciate your answer. It's not that important if it's 15 or 13 members. To be clear, our proposal is 13 in an attempt to preserve some minimum functionality of the Agency. We would, of course, like to see an even smaller number of board members. We think they need to be people from both the Alliance and the Olympic Committee, especially people from the profession. At the same time, however, we have one fact, which is that it is announced, you know, by this authority that unnecessary agencies will be abolished. I think the Antidoping Doping Agency is needed. Over 200 and some agencies exist in Serbia. Your authority has abolished, it seems to me to be two or three agencies, and that's something that still causes public attention. Whenever an agency shows up as such, therefore, as news in our public or the subject of a conversation, there is always a question of what I am asking you. Of course, that every minister, not wanting in any way to reduce the importance of the Anti-doping Agency or your intelligence, in this case, is asking this question. Every minister will say yes, this one is very important. You know, you've got Mr. Zekovic who's great at explaining why something's being rejected. Indeed, we give all the recognition in a professional sense. It would be good if our government had more people like that, but unfortunately, there isn't. So I think our proposal makes sense just because you know that between 15 and 13 is not such a significant difference, but it would show the government's intention to try to narrow down the number of people who meet four times a year, for that they're paid. I don't see why it bothers you and what's the problem of being 13 instead of 15, if our proposal is taxing, it lists exactly the institutions that give their representatives and you, as minister, seem to agree. So why is that your problem? It would be a good step towards the opposition's attempt and you would show that you accept it, just because you, and I, know the whole assembly, so it doesn't affect the functionality of this body.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10638	The word is made by Minister Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10639	I want to thank you at the very beginning, and just to add that the Anti-doping Agency is not an agency but has been established as an institution and is not in one of the number of agencies, but is an institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10640	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10641	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the former regime always need to transfer what they did to the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Mr Alexander Vukic. The government led by Mr. Alexander Vucic began to reduce the number of agencies, and it would be good if the parties of the former regime could explain why and why they formed a large number of completely dysfunctional agencies. What I would like to hear, Mr. Minister, and other SNS MPs would like to hear, is that when you're talking about costs and how much it costs, you need to rationalise costs, etc. I'm very interested in how much it costs to fix it, I just don't know what it was, whether it's a super B or an Audi A6 that's been broken up by Mr. Borislav Stefanovic. That's a lot of money. These are cars that are quite expensive and when they are used, especially in view of the fact that the Republic Authority for Joint Affairs has bought them as new. Now that you break up a car so expensive, it costs. I do not believe that Mr. Borislav Stefanovic will pay for the repair of that car, the state will pay for it. You know how the state is funded and who's funding the state. Therefore, the state is financed by citizens and financed by economic operators paying taxes, contributions, taxes and other public taxes. So those who talk about costs and cost cuts would do well to get away from themselves when they have not already abolished the many agencies they have formed, let's not at least beat up those expensive congregation cars, expensively paid by the state and I think they should be managed by the household.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10642	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10643	Madam President, the truth is, citizens, listening to this tirad might think I took a hammer and knocked on a car. You've heard, and there's nothing further from the truth than what's been said. In fact, there was a literally scratch that was not caused by the congregation. the driver of the General Affairs Service, rather than by citizens who have been in a visibly alcoholic state. It could happen to anyone. This is another proof that those who are incompetent and don't know what to do are looking for any way to attack the opposition, but I will answer. I calculated that dealing with this incident that we absolutely weren't guilty of, cost less than one of the five salaries received by Mr. Martinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10644	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10645	It would be good for Mr Stefanovic to explain to me which five salaries I receive, and it would also be good if you would explain to me whether you were going to damage the state car to pay for it or to pay for the state of Serbia. If you guys in the former regime are constantly teaching how to save, how to get rid of the agencies, let's get out of here. So pay for the damage you caused to the state of Serbia. Why didn't you shut down the agencies that you formed yourself... (President: Please address me, and I will tell the MP Stefanovic. I completely agree with you, Mrs. Gojkovic. So my question is, I hope you agree with me, that someone can ask the question of a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia who began to reduce the number of agencies, and he himself participated in the formation of a large number of non-functional agencies, on the one hand. On the other hand, former regime MPs do not seem to be preparing well for these sessions. Why? As Minister Udovicic explained well, this is not an agency within the meaning of the Public Agency Act. The agency has been defined as an institution and operates in accordance with the Law on Public Services, which has existed in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia since 1991. So this agency has an institution status, such as schools, kindergartens, health homes, hospitals. Am I right, Mr. Minister? This is not the agency for which a special law was passed, the Public Agency Act in 2005, so from 2005 to 2012, you had one explosion in the formation of the number of agencies. This agency is a public service and operates in accordance with the Public Service Act. It would be good if those who criticise the government before they do and before they throw stone at people who do something good for this country at least read what the bill says.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10646	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10647	Thank you, Madam President. We're going back to the point again, a respected colleague doesn't know the basics of something that I think he's even doctored. Someone can't handle and suffer any damage to anyone who wasn't responsible for any incident, and he wasn't in the driver's seat. I think that's what you learn in the first year of law school. I repeat, the amount of damage is less than one salary of five received by the Member concerned. That's the first thing. The other thing is that this is not an agency but an institution, but if something is called an agency and acts like an agency and members of the board are elected as in some other bodies, then we can conclude that it is an agency. If we're here to discuss whether there are 15 or 13, I don't see what the problem is to reduce it if it can't affect the functionality of an agency. So I don't know if you see the senselessness of this debate and these replicas that aren't at all in the subject that we're talking about today. Our attempt to improve something, but when we try to improve something and remind people, the political people in this Assembly who promised it in the election campaign, and like the rest of them, they didn't do it, then like -- yeah, and what did you do? So boring, respected minister, and tiring, and I believe you just want to improve this thing and point it in the right direction. You agree with me? What's this for? They promised, they didn't keep it, they took out the stone, and they hit the police.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10648	Who are you replicating now? The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragan Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10649	Dear President, I would like to advertise the violation of Rule 106. I'm not a lawyer, I'm a doctor of psychiatry and I don't understand myself so much in law, but I've read the Rules of Procedure and I see that some speakers here often abuse this hall and this home. They simply use some of their own, let's say, personal attitudes and to collect some small points. It's simple, if they have an increased voice impulse, it's solved elsewhere. I would ask my colleagues to respect this hall and all of us and the MPs and to work on what's on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10650	Article 106 says MPs can only talk about the agenda point, if you mean the first position, I agree. The MPs came out of the topic so that, under Article 104, I can no longer give replicas, regardless, since we have completely come out of the topic and the replica of the President's right to give the possibility of using Article 104. Therefore, the replicas are no longer available, neither is the public of Serbia under this Law on the interest of car accidents or anything else. According to the amendment, who reported everyone here? Master Jovan Markovic after the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10651	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, I am really uncomfortable when a good initiative or a good idea of this debate or the course of this session is completely changed and when the debate goes one way and the chairman said it does not contribute to the conclusion of this topic, or that we all contribute to improving this bill. As for Mr Martinovic's grudges for both the previous amendment and this amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10652	Did you pick up the line or talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10653	It was really an idea to try to make our contribution to advance the bill and it doesn't say that we had any last intentions. It wasn't really the idea to talk about who's to blame for not being abolished so far, I don't know how many agencies, but the topic was to try within what we have to make our contribution. I wanted to point out, respected ministers, if, in the period since the collapse of the Montenegrin and Serbian community, the agency has functioned with 13 members of the Management Board, if these people who made the agency contributed to getting good grades from all relevant institutions dealing with this job, I thought it would be good to continue to be 13 members in this agency and to meet the government's spending reduction policies, etc. the work of this agency also includes in these activities. I also felt that it was important to think again about the structure of the agency, i.e. about people coming from, as representatives of various institutions, and I underline again, that it is very important that we return to the topic of coverage, i.e. how many sports organisations, associations and associations have so far fulfilled their obligations and whether representatives, or members of the Management Board, in the coming period can, by their actions, contribute to the maximum involvement of these organisations and to work on plans, programmes, their acts and to engage in the realisation of this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10654	By amendment Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10655	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Well, for the sake of truth, just to tell people, this isn't an agency in the sense that someone here has time-shared agencies to hire party personnel. So, this is an agency that usually exists just because the number of people on the Management Board is increasing and I think it's very good that it's getting bigger, because it's mostly done here, because I've seen the composition of the Management Board go, it's about people who have already come into some of their careers, and they certainly don't really care about that kind of compensation if you get it in the Management Board, but simply the profession is being inserted into the Management Board of the Agency itself, and we're simply going to read people about how the distribution of five people appointed by the minister in charge of sports affairs is going to go. I assume you'll choose the most visible people in the field of sports. Two people appointed by the minister responsible for health affairs, which is very important, of course, so that someone can control from that aspect the very good work of the agency itself, then four people who appoints the Olympic Committee of Serbia, I think it is very important that the Olympic Committee be as represented in one such agency as possible. Three people who appoint the Sports Union of Serbia and one person appointed by the Supreme Cassation Court of Serbia, which is really very important that they exist there. I don't see why anyone is complaining, unless someone would want this agency to be abolished, but I'm sorry, then they wouldn't comply with some international regulations that require, and I might mind being called an agency, which isn't an anti-doping control institute. I may have a problem with that name, but it's obvious that you've had to comply with certain international conventions, as you've given your own explanation, so it's simply called, but I repeat once again, this isn't the agency that's served to kidnap the ministries and certain responsibilities and to hire party personnel, as it has been done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10656	So the amendment, Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10657	The amendment was submitted to Article 24 defining the composition of the Agency's Management Board and on these three issues which I consider extremely important and not sufficiently clarified in the principle debate. The first question, by which law does the anti-doping agency, except for this subject, have to carry out all its powers, by which law other than this? The second question is, does the agency acquire equipment based on the tender that has been called upon to be decided by the Management Board for Laboratorys? The third question, does the laboratory that does the service call the tender as a service provider about who will and how to handle the anti-doping control? This has been touched twice in the previous principled search and now in the amendment, all decisions will be made by the Management Board. So, what other law applies to the anti-doping agency besides this, how does the agency get equipment for the laboratory and on what grounds does this laboratory call a tender for its services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10658	The word is made by Minister Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10659	First of all, there's no tender for lab equipment, because there's a tender for selecting a lab to send itself a sample of urine, blood. A tender is being called, as you said yourself, and there have been several discussions on this subject, the equipment for which the tender is being called is the equipment with which the anti-doping control process is being carried out. There are only two companies in the world that produce such specific equipment that all of the world's anti-doping agencies do, including our own. The Public Procurement Act is absolutely implemented and the tender itself is being called by law. The lab must meet some of the conditions for the anti-doping agency itself. One of the conditions is that for 12 hours of driving, which puts us to choose from one four to five labs, but the only laboratory that is authorized to run a urine and blood analysis is a laboratory in Vienna, Austria. All others are authorized only to do urine analysis, which is mostly done, and urine is sent for testing, but in rare cases, blood is taken as a sample, so we need to be prepared to send the blood itself to the test, even though so far it's only taken urine, unorthodoxly in some situations and blood.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10660	By amendment, Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10661	Dear Minister, something is not clear to me, one of the promoters praised European associations for praising our Governing Board, an anti-doping agency of 13 members. So what if we added two more men from some profession that matters to this agency, what will Europe say about this bill? I don't know what this is about, do you want to cut people who matter to this agency or do you want to cut the money they need to be paid to these people? I think it's maligning that this amendment has been spoken of for so long that we would be purely targeted by our voters, so I'm asking you to stop with this current situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10662	The word has been given by MP Gordana Komic, by amendment, to waste the time of the parliamentary group? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10663	I thank you for the clarification, and I think it is important to understand that the Management Board is making a decision on the procurement of equipment and that the Management Board is making a decision on the selection of a laboratory and that these two processes must be subject to the Public Procurement Act and that the Management Board has the obligation to respect the competences of the laws defining the bodies of this kind. I think it's valuable that everyone's clarification not to, in relation to Article 9 and this article, remain in doubt as to who he's getting the equipment for and what and how we're going to treat public tenders if we have so few bidders. Good, comprehensive, clear complete information is always better than any subsequent interpretations, and that's the only point of asking my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10664	Minister Udovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10665	I want to thank you and to apologize, I have not given you an answer to which laws apply, to the Anti-doping Agency, it is the Law on Public Services, the Law on Sports, of course, and the Law on ratification of the International Convention. I'm sorry, I didn't give you the answer until the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10666	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 24th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10667	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, the LSV parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day because we believe it regulates a very important area in sport. The text of the bill itself is very correct. The procedures that followed the adoption of this law were also respected. The explanation you gave when you talked about the bill is very good. What I can still praise is the reasons for the amendment. So far we have had the opportunity to refuse our amendments and to have the arguments so that the amendment is not comprehensive, or the amendment is not meaningful. You are one of the few ministers, i.e. Your ministry, which has seriously explained every amendment. I think there have been a lot of amendments that you could accept today that would improve your bill. One of these is the amendment submitted by the LSV parliamentary group, which is an amendment to Article 24 which regulates the structure, i.e. the composition of the Anti-Doping Agency Board of the Republic of Serbia. We have foreseen this amendment that except for the person appointed by the Ministry, i.e. The minister responsible for sports affairs, one person also appointed the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth, also, that, apart from the person who appoints the Sports Union of Serbia, one person also appointed the Vojvodina Sports Federation. You said in your explanation that there should be a broad representation of all bodies and organisations that can contribute to the implementation of the tasks set out before this agency. We don't think we're jumping out of those frames at all that you've explained. I think that, as you have stated, part of the public authority of the sport organisation appointed by the board members are also the Sport Federation of Vojvodina and the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth. I know that you have very correct co-operation with the Regional Secretariat and you know that there are people who really understand the subject of your ministry, especially because we have 85 municipal and border sports alliances on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. 29 municipal and 56 border with over 2500 sports clubs. I think they should meet at the Anti-doping Agency's board of directors. We don't mind, as you have stated here that there are members of the Sports Federation of Belgrade, I think that right then we will achieve here, as you have stated, the broad representation of all bodies and organisations and thus improve the quality of the work of the board of directors. Once again, I ask you to consider our amendment, and we will definitely support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10668	The word is Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10669	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Ministers of Youth and Sports with Associates, Honorable fellow Members of the People, Honorable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, first of all, I would like to bring one of my sincere pleasures to the head of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the very one who can be a real example of our youth, but in addition, Minister, thank you for being a top athlete of sports and recreational sport, which you advocate for healthy lifestyles and consistent application of the strategy for young people. Of course, it is very important to educate young people in all spheres, including the one we're talking about today, as far as doping is concerned. We had a lot of information about this law. Today we received a report on a public debate, a lot of information on the Education Committee, and then here in the principle debate. On the basis of this, I can also express my position, my opinion on the amendment to Article 24. This amendment is currently applicable, as before, to members of the Management Board. The applicants are asking for their request to be among the members of the board of directors, as we have now since the previous honourable MP and heard, members of the board of directors to be one person appointed by the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth, as well as one person appointed by the Sport Federation of Vojvodina. We've heard more than once who the board members are and how that schedule was done. The board members are seven members of the public authorities, these are the resolution ministries, the Ministry of Sport and the Ministry of Health, but also seven members from different sports organisations, as well as one representative of the Supreme Cassation Court. As for the need for a member to be appointed from the Vojvodina Sports Federation, I don't think it should be accepted. Your argument is quite correct and exhaustive, because the Vojvodina Sports Federation is already a member of Serbia's Sports Federation. If this amendment, fellow MPs, were to accept today, what would happen? Then many border alliances in Serbia would demand that they have a member and then have not 15 but 115 members. Then why don't the Sports Federation of Belgrade ask for the same thing when we know that the most top athletes are currently in that sports alliance? Not to go further into detail, the government has given quite a broad and good explanation and, for all the above, my opinion is, and certainly, the opinion of the SNS MPs that this amendment to Article 24 should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10670	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10671	I would like to thank you for your commendation and support, and I would like to point out that we have an extraordinary co-operation with the Regional Secretariat for Sports and the Vojvodina Sports Alliance. We have deeply examined your amendment in order to really represent all the players of sport and all the relevant experts who can help, especially on this specific subject, but in the end, from the very explanation of the rejection of amendments, we have decided not to accept the amendment. As Minister of Youth and Sports, we have a real problem that, with the recognition of the Vojvodina Sports Alliance, the board of directors would sincerely rebel other border territorial alliances and that would rule a huge problem. For practical reasons, we decided not to go, because we would rebel, for example, as is said, the Sports Federation of Belgrade. I purposely and put it in line for the amendments, where the largest number of top athletes in Belgrade's territory is located. We've been thinking for a long time from this collaboration and the desire to respect it, because we think they can help a lot. As far as the District Secretariat itself is concerned, one member of the Republic Institute for Sports and Sports Medicine has not been put in place, for example, because it is believed that the Ministry of Health can answer this issue much better, and then we would open the door to a really wide desire to enter the Management Board. My guess as minister is that Serbia's Sports Federation will give a representative to those three members, to whom it has the right, that one or more representatives will be right out of the Vojvodina Sports Federation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10672	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Chapo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10673	Thank you for your response. I hope this will be fulfilled the last thing you said, that on your initiative and your engagement one member or more members of the Sports Union of Serbia will be from the Vojvodina Sports Federation. I hope it stays that way. I wanted to make another addition. You, in your explanation, have somehow brought in the border alliances and the Duke's Sports Federation to the same extent. I just said that the Vojvodina Sports Federation has 29 border alliances and 50 and some municipal sports alliances, so I don't think they're on the same level. I accept your explanation and I hope, when all this is formed, i.e. The board of directors, it'll be like you said. As MPs of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and MPs who defend the interests of citizens and citizens of Vojvodina, we will escort it to the end and see if there are indeed a member who is from the Vojvodina Sports Federation on board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10674	The word has been given by MP Mirko Krlić, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10675	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Udovic, I thank you for having made such an amendment and for refusing such an attempt, which shows your sincere intention to distance politics and ideology from sports. It is very clear that these proposals, which essentially have the ideology of the 1974 Constitution, are trying to delegate something from the AP Vojvodina, which would have been decided by the alliances of Serbia, we recognize from a time when the government of Serbia could not make any decision without the ruling of the AP Vojvodina and its organs, and in the opposite direction, of course, there was no such impact. Once again, I urge that we remove ideology from sports and not try to return a kind of majorisation to a small door, such as an attempt on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10676	Thank you. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, we have proposed an amendment to Article 28 for the simple reason that we believe that the Anti-doping Agency's director cannot perform another professional function or work, except for the profession at the university in the Republic of Serbia. We have made it clear in reason that, taking into account all the provisions of the law that we have said that in the voting day, we will support it, but we will try to correct it, and taking into account the importance of the Anti-Corruption Agency, we believe that its first man is not able to perform double functions, and not as in the Ministry's very explanation, that, in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, among other things, this amendment refuses, but for the simple reason we are not talking about a conflict of interest here, but we are talking about the commitment of a person who is at the head of such an institution. So it is, among other things, government policy, including the largest ruling SNS, which has been media presence for days, which is that double functions are not allowed in front of the SNS. There were several calls. That is why I call on you, both in accordance with government and SNS policy, and in line with the DS amendment, which says that one person cannot do these two important jobs in this way, such as, for example, the Antidoping Agency Director. On the other hand, in the past, we have had examples that some Antidoping agencies in the past even had contracts with their personal health institutions or laboratories. One of them was controversial in public, which is "Vita Maxima". There was a suspicion that it was corruption. I don't know in the end how this whole case ended, but for reasons like this, for the practice that already existed, we thought it was important to complete this law in this way that the director could possibly perform educational roles if he had a profession, but, on the other hand, it wasn't about any conflict of interest, it was only about the commitment of a person who performs such an important function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10678	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10679	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected fellow citizens, when we're talking about the Anti-doping Agency's director, whether or not he can perform another function, I don't think any party can decide that, at least the DS. I believe there is a Act on Agency and Anti-Corruption Agency that gives consent to whether you can perform another function. As for SNS, I don't know if the previous speaker knows that the SNS has brought its position as a party that our officials are not performing double functions, that over 200 SNS officials in all of Serbia have resigned to certain functions, and even those who may have been paid two, three or four thousand dinars, which does not really represent some huge amount of money, but that is SNS policy, Mr. previous speaker. I therefore believe that your policy, which has been led since 2000, where there is no way to determine how many DS officials have performed five or more functions at all levels in our country. Unlike you, today you know what function it performs, how much it is paid for, and that's SNS policy. We want you to apply such a policy someday if you come back and take responsibility in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10680	The word has the People's MP Balša Bozovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10681	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. I'll go back to the amendment, even though I answered for the replica, for the simple reason that I think it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10682	If you want to speak by amendment, you have more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10683	I'm reporting for the amendment. The Ministry's argument alone is not disputed. It's been written by someone who's very professional. On the other hand, I only want to draw attention to one more time, and to Minister Udovic, to what we talked about when there was a debate on this law, and that is the so-called corruption in the announcement. I would not consider everything we heard earlier, for the simple reason that we counted over 200 of the posts on which individual MPs are part, or part of the SNS Parliament Club. I don't want to talk about who it is, but it's a thing that the SNS itself doesn't stand for. So we have what is theory and what is practice. In theory, there's one thing, and in practice it's completely something else. Please consider this amendment for the simple reason that this is definitely a solution to the duality of certain functions that we can encounter in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10684	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10685	We certainly recognized the good intentions in your amendment, but I would like first of all to point out that the board of directors is elected by the Antidoping Agency, not by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It would be an act to bring the Director into an unequal position in relation to the other directors, i.e. performers of public office. We have taken into account the specificities of this area of doping itself and the knowledge that few experts in this area are dealing with this topic. That is why we feel it is necessary to allow and we believe that the very director of the Anti-doping Agency can help some other institutions when working, especially on a specific subject like this, which is increasingly taking hold of both the world and ours. That's why we want to help eliminate this negative phenomenon. That's the only reason. I repeat, we have recognized good intentions, but we do not want to prevent the quality of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10686	The word is made by Master Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10687	Dear Minister, I fully agree with your view that when selecting people and selecting candidates, it is necessary to set up broader things and not allow some narrow restrictions, in this case, to fully support your thinking, not to allow people, or that board of directors, to be limited, and perhaps a candidate who meets or does not meet the conditions, and would do well to do this job, not to choose that function, which would be bad for both the board of directors and for the law and for society. But what is being imposed here as a dilemma, as a question, again I want to go back to what Mr. Martinovic said, he mentioned the question whether this is an agency or an institution? Of course, because we knew it was an institution, that the board of directors at the level of the Law on Institutions function, we felt it was very important to specify the role of the Director, or to ask the question – whether, in the Management Board of that agency after the appointment of the Government, let's say, the Director of the Health Department from some institution is present, should he also be the Director of this agency, or could he be the Director of this agency? So the dilemma is what kind of professions are, in this case, what are those occupations that can be accepted as double functions? So we don't have anything against this idea that the best and best-quality people are named for this function, but we're simply opening the question of whether at the same time they can be directors in one function and in another, or should that be limited in some way? This is one topic, and precisely because it is the director of the institution in this case, it is not a good explanation that you have given in the text of an explanation, which is why you reject this amendment. The other thing is exactly what counterpart Bozovic was talking about, the topic of work. If we talk all the time that we need to improve the work of this agency, this board of directors, this society at all about this topic, then it's unacceptable for this director to be engaged in other jobs and other functions at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10688	The word is Alexander Jovicic, as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10689	Replication of a young MP from across the street...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10690	Replication and don't be young or older.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10691	I need to know who I'm giving the replica to, because you didn't give me your word right after him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10692	I couldn't give the word, the minister answered. But I'm trying to explain slowly who I'm replicating. But we have a lot of young people in this congregation. Please, just talk to me. I won't recognize myself in youth.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10694	Since 2012, however, the SNS has implemented a number of reforms, so when we talk about depolitisation in sport, remember that Mr Gasic has given up his candidacy for the Tennis Alliance of Serbia, for the president, Mr Babic has resigned as president of the Waterpolo Alliance of Serbia. But I ask you a question -- who today is president of Serbia's basketball union and apparently doesn't want to give up on that function ever? The fight against corruption is the backbone of SNS policy. You should never have thought to deal with those who created this corruption in our country. Double functions, I don't mind that DS officials had double functions. I don't mind. However, these double functions were very often used to double-charging all tenders in this country through public enterprises, to be twice rich based on all possible public procurement and that is what offends citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that is what insults this parliament. That is why I call again on the DS in no way to lecture the Serbian Progressive Party, the party that has given up its double functions because it is indeed a political code to be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10695	Thank you. I ask the MPs to always define my call, on what basis. According to Article 107, I ask all MPs not to address each other directly, also in the Rules of Procedure, so that there would be no after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, if I had made the rules. I don't address MPs directly. The word has the People's MP Balša Bozovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10696	Thank you. What we've heard is, it's a little bit to say, a series of false things. Six new functions and five salaries are received by a colleague of the previous speaker on his right. So, when we talk about systems and double functions...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10697	Do you replicate directly to Ambassador Alexander Jovici?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10698	No, I'm talking to you, replica. I would like to point out that this is about one thing that is very important for the functioning of the system in Serbia. We're talking about someone who's president of the KSS, with extracurricular results, someone who's even announced that he won't be a MP. On what double is the president of the KSS sitting on? Don't sit down. He's doing his job and he's doing the best he's done in the last few years. I don't know how many years. Instead of being happy and proud of the results of Serbia's basketball, we now have diabolical comments from colleagues across the street, completely without any need. It does not defend both the interest of sports, sports in Serbia, or expertise, or knowledge. So I think it's very important that these things be clear to the citizens who are following this transmission first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10699	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10700	Dear Chairman, I'd really like to hear the results of the KSS. It is obvious that Dragan Gilas has achieved all the results, that we can ignore the results of Aleksandar Djordjevic, Raduljica and all those basketball players who are famous and who have achieved extraordinary results based on their experience and the results they have achieved for our country. These were lies and lies sent by the MP on the contrary to Mr Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10701	We won't use such expressions as lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10702	On the other hand, I repeat, I want answers – what was done in the KSS and that it was the direct merit of Mr. Gilas, except maybe he found some love of his life?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10703	I will not allow us to address each other in this way and to talk about public figures in Serbia. Minister, you called to talk about the amendment? You're giving up? Does anyone want to talk about the amendment or want to talk about the private lives of public figures? I'll take a break so we can all think about the discussion. We are talking about an amendment to Article 28, which adds a new position 3 and which reads – the director of the Antidoping Agency cannot perform another professional function or work, except for the professorship of the Faculty in the Republic of Serbia. I think we've come out of the picture a lot on this amendment. If someone wants to talk about the amendment, and if they have a different intention, I'll tell you in advance that I'm gonna break up and take a break. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. By amendment? (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I wanted to pick up the line. ) I do not allow any replicas under Article 104 because you do not replicate each other in the right way. So I'm setting a half-hour break to keep the MPs talking exclusively about the amendments. You can wave your hands, but I think we should talk about the amendments. Believe me, this is what the Serbian public expects of us and because of them we are in parliament. I don't understand Ambassador Marijan Risticevic and I'm asking him to enter the record to throw the chairman in a break. Please enter the record that in the break, Marijan Risticevic throws and insults the chairman. [[Marian Risticevic, from the scene: You took a break. What do you want?]] Thank you. (Marian Risticevic, from the scene: What does this look like? I ask the MP to respect Parliament. Parliament exists in breaks, I guess that's how much you know. You do not have to, MP, participate in the work of parliament unless you recognise the rules of this Parliament. It's your right. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: I am on break. This doesn't make sense. You wiped me out of the register three times. ) The President of Parliament did not allow you to approach, nor did you ask for permission. Get out of the way so we don't call security. I mean it. Get away from the table. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Go heal yourself.) ) In the follow-up session, I will certainly give you a warning. Don't worry about anything. (Marian Risticevic, from the scene: You can shoot me.) I ask security to take the MP out of the O.R. to calm down in the break and to be able to work on the follow-up. We'll be back to work in 20 minutes, since it's been 10 minutes. [[After a break.]] The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Blagoja Bradic, Marko Djurisic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. There's a word, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10705	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, we have come to the conclusion by reading this article that somehow the Agency appears to be in a subordinate position to the Ministry, and we have also written an amendment which provides, or rather, that the Agency is obliged to inform the Ministry of Sports of the conduct of doping control at the latest three days after its maintenance. In the case of the case as set out in the proposal for this law, it states that the Anti-doping Agency is obliged to notify the Ministry of Sports's responsibility on any case planned doping control at least three days before its maintenance. With regard to Article 31, where it is said that the Antidoping Agency is independent in its work, we believe that our solution is better than it was given in the bill. Once again, I can only express my satisfaction that you have accepted our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10706	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10707	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Once again, thanks to the Ministry of Understanding and the desire to come to a better law in such direct contact and cooperation. I want to point out once again the very important, the great importance of the Anti-Doping Agency, the Ministry's determination to insist on it, and I want to point out that the Anti-doping Agency has, above all, a preventive character and would disagree with my colleagues who in their presentations have potentiated the repressive measures of this law. They're in the end, they're prescribed from international codes. We aim to fight doping in order to protect fair play in sports and sports health, which is primarily the priority of the Ministry and that I am right and that the law is so well-conceived that from 2006 to 2013, as you said in this report, the Agency had 4.347 doping controls, but we need to bear in mind that just over 50 alliances respected the recommendations of the Anti-doping Agency's anti-doping law, which was in force in 2005. This repressive law refers more to alliances than to athletes, because there were 50 athletes and something, as you wrote here on these 4.347 controls, which is negligible. Another observation, top-notch sports as they go anti-doping controls so both medicine and the chemical industry are perfecting and finding new dopings, so that that top athlete who decided to break the rules he's breaking, and we have an example of this world-renowned cycling ace. I repeat again, this is primarily directed at me to be educational, to prevent, to inform and educate young generations what can happen harmfully if they use doping. Whether he will be the first or not to be negligible in relation to the fact that he can disrupt his health permanently and that, I think, is, above all, the role that you should advocate, what to insist on with that of mine, I repeat, the note that you must pay attention to the school sport which is the base of everything because there are recruiting fans of our prominent athletes, there they are taking the first steps and there you need to educationally, preventively, and I think they are the real address of sports medicine specialists who are supposed to make their immeasurable contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10708	The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is "Zarko Micin."
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10709	President-in-Office of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find this amendment unacceptable. Namely, the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports is laid down in Article 38 of the Penal Code for the Violation of Drug Abuse and in this case the prescribed penalty is from six months to five years. The amendment's proposing that the range be increased to one to ten years. However, this would be contrary to the Council of Europe's recommendation. In the recommendation of the Council of Europe, we have a recommendation to bring all legislation in line with the Doping Act and we have this situation that, in this case, the amendment promoter suggests the opposite, which is not acceptable, and on the other hand, we have a situation that in Article 247. The criminal code we have prescribed is the same act, which is to enable the use of intoxicating drugs, and in that case the penalty is also prescribed from six months to five years. So, since these are identical crimes, I think it would be inappropriate to prescribe a wider range of prison sentences in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10710	Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. I didn't see you pick up first.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10711	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, I believe that this Article 38 of the proposed law is extremely important, that, in principle, we also talked about it, it was good to pay more attention to the possible abuses, i.e. the use of these funds, in order to strengthen both training and the competitive process of minors. We felt it was good that in this area that treats criminal responsibility in some way this law connects to the Criminal Law, but the fact that a colleague had previously said that in certain situations it could be in a situation that either managers, trainers, third parties of the abuse of a minor, we felt that there was a difference in the use of narcotics. So the use of narcotics means that it's a personal matter, that it's kind of a personal need and desire, and in this case I think this member should have predicted this possibility of abuse, or use or pressure on minors who, in this case, don't have the possibility of protection and, therefore, need to increase the criminal measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10712	The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm sorry, you didn't answer. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10713	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is a deliberate amendment if we look at it from a practical angle. So in the bill of law, people who allow athletes to use doping would be evenly punished, as would those who allow the use of intoxicating drugs. The word itself – enjoyment means that someone uses it for his pleasure. If someone uses it to give someone in sport to use doping in sport in a non-sports way to do better results, and thus commercialize their success that can be measured by millions, which from direct revenues, which from indirect ads, then I guess the amendment promoter thought of that circumstance, although he did not point out in the explanation, that one if someone allows a person to enjoy drugs, and the other thing is that if someone makes it a better result, that he takes medals, money, fame, etc. I think it's a more serious violation of this and that this increase in punishment makes sense, but I also have an understanding for the legislator and for these reasons I cannot only vote for this amendment, but it should be thought about in the future. By changing this law or by some other law, let's say, the Code of Criminal Code, the amendments to the Criminal Code, that this act, when it comes to sports, is a little bit more about sports than about drug use? I'm going to make an example of Michael Phelps. I think that's what he called a swimmer. I don't know what would happen to his punishment and the punishment of the person who made it possible for him, since he was caught using marijuana and since neither the rules when athletes are involved and doping are the same, that one applies to one athlete, and that the other rules apply to American athletes, so he got a two or three-month sentence in the summer break when there was no competition. When it comes to Victor Troicki, he's been given a disciplinary sentence of a completely different kind, so I assume that even by a member of this law, the party will be excluded in a way. What if someone who has made it possible for athletes to use these funds and who should be subject to the penalties of this legislation, what if someone pulls out an American passport and says that he is an American and that these legal provisions do not apply to him? What if foreign ambassadors say we can't apply this law to, say, American athletes or Americans who allow their athletes to get a better result on our country's territory? With that in mind, we already have this mix-up of various ambassadors acting here as leaders of political parties, and we all saw that nationalist political screwup that was caused in the same way, so I'm afraid that no matter what it is, it will not be possible to apply to foreigners who are committing violations in our terms. So, the amendment promoter had a good intention, but I'm afraid, since this law has to be compatible with various international recommendations, that at this point it's not enforceable, but it remains for us to think that by changing another Criminal Code, we need to sharpen the work when someone is sharing doping to athletes, because it's not the same to use something for pleasure and use something because of the result, because of fraud, because of better income from advertising, because of fame, because of gold medals, silver etc. It's one thing to enjoy something, and another to use something that's not allowed to conquer someone else and grab the glory and money that doesn't belong to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10714	The word is made by Minister Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10715	Just to clarify this law applies to our athletes, and athletes coming from other countries are subject to the International Code, so there is no confusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10716	The minister didn't understand you very well. The word is Marijan Risticevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10717	So, I wasn't just talking about international athletes, I was talking about people, because this member speaks – who sportsmen to doping in sport prescribes or issues or to athletes apply a doping agent or help and otherwise allows athletes to use a doping agent will be punished by law from six months to five years. I was talking about people who allow foreign athletes, and they are foreign citizens. They take out an American passport and say, "These laws don't apply to me." Will this law be applied, given that Americans are exempt from some doping tests at least that's how stories are circulated in the sports community, and on the foreign faces, foreigners who allow our or foreign athletes to use doping funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10718	The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović-Vukojčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10719	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, of course, is that the proposer of this law, the Government, or the competent ministry, has also taken care of the criminal-legal protection of minors. They took care of the criminal-legal protection of minors, and that's exactly what Article 38 said, but Article 2, where it is clearly said - who allows the use of doping to a minor will be punished by prison, not as the amendment's proposings say - from one to 10 years, but by a two to 10-year sentence. Therefore, the amendment proposed should not be accepted, that the legal solution is also in the interest of criminal and legal protection of minors. These are the reasons why the amendment should not be accepted. I want to point out one more thing, it's very important that the laws between them are brought together. This coordination between the legal provisions of the competent ministry, i.e. the Government and how it has shown in this Article 38, which is in full agreement with Article 247, which concerns the possibility of the use of intoxicating drugs. These divergences and various criminal provisions in certain laws over the past 15, 20 years have mainly led to legal chaos. It is precisely to avoid this legal chaos and how important it is that you agree this Rule 5 of the Law, or Article 38 of the Law, with Article 247. Criminal code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10720	The 40th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Blagoja Bradic, Marko Djurisic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10721	Thank you. Article 40 refers to the infringement and provides for fines from 400 to million dinars for the violation of national-sports associations, i.e. sports organisations and other legal entities, and under one - if not authorised to interfere or attempt to interfere with any part of the doping control referred to in Article 3(1) point 5. In view of the fact that the Minister, or the Government, has accepted our amendment to Article 3(1) of point 5, this is only analogous to the amendment accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10722	The 40th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10723	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, we have concluded in principle that there is a reason for a good analysis, in particular this point 2) and point 8). I found it extremely important to specify as far as point 8 is concerned) further the activities of the Sports Union, the Olympic Committee, and that it is in some way unacceptable to continue to maintain a situation where 50% of associations, associations, clubs, etc. will not comply with the law and do not activate the application of this law, which then does not derrogate it. As regards this relationship between Criminal Law and Infringement, I also pointed out in the principle debate on this relationship that exists in Article 39, where it is said that anyone who is not authorized to do drugs in sport is produced, processed, sold or offered for sale or for sale, bought, held, transferred, owned, etc. Forbidden means that he will be punished for three to 12 years in prison. Accordingly, I felt that in Article 40(2), the repetition of the same works, such as sales, transport, dispatch, delivery, distribution, etc., was in some way repeated and the works mentioned in Article 39, that it was necessary or to specify what was a crime, and what was an offence, or should be thrown out of this point 2. In particular, I point out that part of these works is repeated in Article 42 point 1, which includes misappropriations of between 50,000 and 150,000 dinars. I think it's a very large range of criminal charges and fines from 50,000 to a possible prison sentence. I also appreciate your explanation that you pointed out during the discussion, which is that, practically, in the experience we have, there is no criminal act that has been established in the previous seven or eight years. I also believe that the consequence is precisely the disproportionateness between these criminal sanctions and the criminal charges of the area where investigation or determination of responsibility will always be directed towards the course of the offence, which is not good. That's why I've proposed somewhere to consider increasing the fine that's being determined in this case. What I particularly want to point out is that in this article the 40th responsibility of the National Union, national associations and associations, organisations and sports clubs is precisely in that they are not allowed to own in illicit actions concerning the relationship between sport and the use of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10724	The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10725	A criminal act implies that there is an intention in the perpetrator, that is, dealing with the goal of doping in sport, and the perpetrator can only be a natural person. In the case of a violation, a person can commit both a physical and a legal person. That is why, considering all aspects, we have decided to reject your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10726	The word has Zivan Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10727	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, honourable MPs, it is not disputed that every MP has the right to propose amendments. However, I believe that someone would propose an amendment must at least read carefully and carefully the regulation to which the amendment applies, on the one hand. On the other hand, I think it is necessary to have at least a minimum legal knowledge, and that includes consulting lawyers. I'll show you here and explain why I consider this. If we carefully read Article 40(2), we will see that the perpetrators of this offence, as Mr. Minister has already said, can only be legal persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10728	Ambassador, talk to the microphone, 'cause I can't hear you. I thought you guys broke up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10729	This crime can only be committed by a physical person. So if you read it in detail, you'd see it. Also, in the proposal for an amendment, i.e. the reasons for the amendment, the penalties provided for in this point are already contained in Article 39. If Article 39 had been carefully read, it would have been evident that those penalties in Article 39 were not foreseen, a prison sentence is foreseen. Furthermore, when I said there must be a minimum legal knowledge, it's common knowledge, and it's obvious here that this crime can only be committed by a natural person, which can also be seen by a layman, because, under the threat of punishment, imagine, the sentence of prison has been imposed on a legal person. Imagine another problem in determining criminal responsibility, determining the subjective part of criminal liability, determining whether the legal person is reasonable, unaccountable, etc. So obviously there's some basics here, that this crime can only be committed by a physical person, and that this offence applies only to legal persons. What is possible and possibly often happens in practice, it is that the offences contain elements that are in the essential elements of a criminal offence, but it is a legal practice, i.e. legal science and criminal law, that has solved it in such a way that, if someone happens to be punished for a offence that contains elements of a criminal offence, in the course of the conviction, in the course of the punishment for this criminal offence, the sentence imposed for the offence is calculated. That should be known. Furthermore, what I think should have known here was the same thing, when I said that these occur very often, in order to practically explain that crimes, i.e. that certain offences also contain elements of criminal acts, are very common practices in the area of public order and peace that also contain elements, for example, injuries of a person, which can also be prosecuted as a crime of minor physical injury, etc. It's happening and it's nothing controversial. In the case of a conviction for a crime of minor physical injury or someone else, against life and body, this sentence imposed in a misdemeanor procedure is simply accounted for. I propose that the Government's proposal be fully adopted, that the amendment be rejected and I believe that the argument is given very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10730	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10731	Thank you, I'll be very brief. I would like to join the proposal to reject this amendment and also to thank my colleague Đurisic for a very comprehensive explanation of why the agreed amendment is poorly set up in this way. The essence of the deficiency is in a context that has been missed. The start of Article 40 clearly states that these proposed fines relate to sports associations, sports organisations and other legal entities. There is a fundamental difference compared to the penalties provided for in Article 39, which, as we heard today, determines certain equivalence between the works subject to this law and the use of intoxicating drugs. Therefore, Article 39 refers to producers, dealers and their associates, and Article 40, if the responsibility of organisations is determined, introduces a way for those organisations to be sanctioned for established liability, which is a fine. That is also a good reason to retain such a legal solution as was proposed by the Government, that, with the proposed penalties for individuals who commit a crime, a crime, we can also punish an organization that was obliged to make sure that such things do not happen under its protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10732	Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10733	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I will not pay much attention to these qualifications whether anyone has read the law, whether he has not read it, whether he is professional or not. I'm absolutely sure the minister understood my intention and the suggestions I was talking about. To explain to my colleagues who have criticised this proposal, it is here, dear colleagues, that I believe that people who are at a certain point are able to be authorized to be a person for some, let's say, sports club, who abuse their function and their position towards athletes and children, that a criminal law must be applied. It means to give an example. Take an example of a football club president who invested his money, his money in that football club, who, at some point, hired a lot of kids, a lot of young guys to come into that club, who paid some money for scholarships, rents, membership fees, etc., for a certain generation of boys, who came into a situation to recognize talent in one of those boys and to recognize the possibility and his chance to make money on it. Let's just say that that kid goes to high school, he's 15 years old, he's in the current process, and he's recognized as a top-notch talent. I want this particular club president who allows himself or that for the right to have doctors serve, his colleagues, his associates in some way point in that direction and that this guy who's in the current process at some point is doping out of his knowledge, out of his desires, etc. That man is a criminal match. You have a lot of examples like that, it doesn't have to be club president, it could be one of the managers that shows up in public, it could be anyone. I think that the man who's responsible for the club, who treats the players, the children in that way, must still be punished under criminal law. That's what this proposal was all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10734	Thank you. The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a master's degree, Jovan Marković.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10735	The Honorable Chairman, I also reported on the previous amendment, but the technique probably failed. So, the meaning of this amendment regarding sports violations is just directed in that direction to raise the level of fines. We believe that this amount should be retained from 400,000 to millions of dinars, since this article also describes similar acts that qualify as violations as Articles 40 and 41. It was a proposal, so we accept the explanation and it's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-15-0.u10736	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I've concluded a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular, and in general. Thank you, Minister, you've finished your share. Dear Members of the Parliament, given that the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, and pursuant to Article 87(5). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 15 October 2014 starting at 14 hours and 15 minutes as the day for voting on the agendas of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I thank Minister Widowic, who thanked all MPs for today's work. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 161 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We move on to the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Doping in the Sport. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I'm putting a vote on the bill to prevent doping in sport, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted three of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before we move on to the amendment decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments submitted jointly by MPs Branka Karavidić, Dr Blagoja Bradic, Marko Djurisic and Biljana Hasanovic-Korać to Articles 3, 10, 32 and 40. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Blagoja Bradic, Marko Djurisic and Biljana Hasanovic-Korać submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 167 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 13th amendment with correction, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 169 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 169 out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 169 out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 169 out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 169 out of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against - no one, abstentioned - did not vote 168 of the overall presence of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against -no one, with abstentions - there is no, 168 of the total attendance of 183 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against - one, abstention - there is no vote, 167 of the 183 MPs present as a whole did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the bill to prevent doping in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 182, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill to prevent doping in sport. Since we now need to decide on the proposals of the Law on Confirmation of International Agreements (points 2, 3, 4, and 5 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 181, against - no one, with abstentions, is present with 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition of driving licences in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 179, no one, with abstentions, voted five of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international border crossing between Vračev Gaj (Republic of Serbia) and Sokol (Romania) on the Serbian-Roman state border, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 183, no one, with abstentions, has voted for two of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international border crossing of Golubac (Republic of Serbia) and Nova Moldova (Romania) at the Serbian-Romanian state border, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 184, no one, with abstentions, has voted on one of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. Before we move to a decision on the motion for a decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(2), point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the SPS parliamentary group, as a whole. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against - one, abstention - there is no, there is no vote of nine out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by majority of the votes of all MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require without the right to explain that the National Assembly is to declare itself in the day of voting. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 13 October 2014, at 12 hours and 27 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP at the meeting on 13 October 2014 at 12 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that the vote was - four, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 165 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 13 October 2014 at 15 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 103 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – seven, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Thank you.
