ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1385	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the third session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Before we begin today's work, please pay our respects to the victims of the elementary disasters that have hit Serbia in a minute of silence. A minute of silence. Glory to them! Allow me to thank, on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the members of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, as well as all volunteers and volunteers who responded to provide their unselfish assistance in preventing and removing the consequences of the disaster that has hit Serbia in these difficult moments. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 146 MPs present. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 157 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move on to requesting information and explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Excuse me, the word is Jasmine Obradovic, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1386	President-in-Office, dear colleagues, although the times in which we are these days are really difficult, I, as an MP, have an obligation to ask a parliamentary question sent to me by citizens and you will realize that this is not such a harmless thing either. On the basis of a request sent to the Futog Meat Community, which was signed by 1,500 citizens of Futoga, the Meat Community also addressed. At the Council meeting, the local community of Futog decided to support their citizens' initiative, i.e. citizens, and sent me a letter of the following content, and the letter was sent to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, although I think there is room for other ministries to be involved. "On the occasion of increasingly frequent protests in places where mobile telephony base stations are being created and set up, where there are four base stations, and there are two more and all of them in the urban part of our settlement. Because of the conflicting views of the expert public on the harmfulness of non-ionising radiation, which we are exposed to on a daily basis, citizens are protesting the health security of their children, as well as their personal safety. One base station that was built ten days ago is 200 meters away from the primary school "Miroslav Antić", and from the kindergarten "Biberce" 350 meters away, and the school attends 1,300 children. The second base station, VIP Mobil, is scheduled to be built on the street of Cara Lazara, on the catastrian plot No. 4631, the catastrian municipality of Futog, the town of Novi Sad, which is 50-60 meters closer to those educational institutions." In most of these settlements, there are areas on the periphery, suburban settlements have areas that are not foreseen by a detailed urban plan for construction, but are pastures, so that such base stations can be set up. We suggest that the ministry to whom the memo has been sent, but all other ministries are involved in solving this problem, because we believe, if this proposal is adopted, that the existing law could be regulated in the way we propose, that the base stations should be moved where there is a possibility from urban parts and places where they will have the least harmfulness. With this regulation of the existing law, it would be a multiple benefit. Although we have addressed many institutions, so far we have no answers, nor have anyone invited us to discuss this topic. “ The Meat Community of Futog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1387	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, please pay our respects to the late academic Dobrica Cosic, the great Serbian writer and first president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. A minute of silence. Oh, thank God! I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic, Dr Miljan Nikolic, Aleksandar Jablanovic, Konstantin Arsenovic, Olgica Batic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby inform you that I am next to the representative of the motionors Istvan Pastor, the President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, invited the sittings of Ana Tomanov Makanov, Milivov Vrebalov, Dusan Jakovljev, Branislava Belic and Đorđe Milicevic, vice-presidents of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina; Milorad Gasic, Secretary of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina; Chile Gimpel Kantor, Head of the Office of the Parliament of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and Maja Slavnic, associate with the public office of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. We'll wait until they sit down and take their seats. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. I would also like to inform you that the beginning of the session was postponed first Monday, and then for Tuesday due to the occurrence of extraordinary circumstances caused by an elemental accident. The first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, the First Special and Second Special Sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Since today's session is attended by most of the total number of MPs, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 24 and 26 April 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 33 out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 24 and 26 April 2014. I am voting on the publication of the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 27 April 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, no one, with abstentions, voted 29 out of the 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 27 April 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 28 April 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, no one, with abstentions, voted 30 out of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 28 April 2014. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and the Local Self-Government of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Leskovac, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 36, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 169 out of the 205 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft Statute of the AP Vojvodina be put on the agenda with a proposal for a decision to give prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 185, no one, with abstentions, voted 19 out of 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 182, no one, with abstentions, voted 25 out of the 207 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, in general. 1st Proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina with a proposal for a decision to give prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. We're going to work on a set agenda. You have received a proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina with a proposal for a decision to give prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 189, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 188 but in accordance with Article 157(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina with a proposal for a decision to give prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. Does the representative of Proposer Istvan Pastor, president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Istvan Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, for scheduled this session of the National Assembly in record time. I would also like to thank all the MP groups in the National Assembly for being partners in that we have been in a position to discuss this proposal today and, hopefully, we are in a position to decide on this proposal from the point of reference to the National Assembly. It could be said that it is normal, especially that it could be said that it is normal because such an agreement has been reached before, but, taught by experience so far, I have to say that what is normal at first sight and doesn't have to be that way. I just want to remind you that we had to wait one year, one month and 15 days for the proposal set by the AP Vojvodina Assembly to come to the agenda. It took a year, a month and 15 days, even though it was the same political colouring on the province and at the republican level. Different conclusions can be drawn from comparing these two situations. I would like to draw one conclusion that I think is most important from the aspect of the long-term observation of this problem, which is that, regardless of the identity of political colour, when it comes to the autonomy of Vojvodina, when it comes to the Statute, it is complex political problems and complex political issues. I would also like to remind, ladies and gentlemen, that during this period of one year, a month and 15 days, the process of decommissioning the idea lasted, and it is no wonder that this process was ended by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last quarter of the century, this is the third statute of the AP Vojvodina. There's a lot of similarities between them and a lot of differences. One was adopted in 1991, the other in 2009 and this third, I hope, in 2014. The first two can be said to have been brought to the full by political freedom of the actors who followed the agreements. Both were preceded by the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in 1990 and 2006 respectively. This statute now in 2014 is the result of a situation for which we can characterise as a moment of limited freedom and limited volunteering. Octroissance means or stems from the Constitutional Court's decision. I would like to remind you of the fact that on 5 December last year, the Constitutional Court held its decision challenging 46 provisions of the Statute, namely two-thirds of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, against the constitution. He also gave a general assessment that the Statute of the AP Vojvodina is not a constitutional act and that, by its character, it is a sublegal legal act. At the moment of the Constitutional Court's decision, various assessments and different comments were made, both in relation to the Constitutional Court and in relation to the experiences of the modern state by the Constitutional Court and the personal composition of the Constitutional Court and the nature of the Constitution, which was adopted in 2006, where it was not, etc. What was clear at that moment and unambiguous is that such discussions can be conducted, but that if we advocate the idea of strengthening the rule of law and the idea of rule of law and if we swear to function in a system of force and counterweight in a democratically regulated state, then the Constitutional Court decision can be commented, but it must be respected. It was a basic setting that was relatively rapidly extruded. Starting with a decision of the Constitutional Court, which meant or which meant that the publication of that decision would be delayed for six months, we together received a time period of six months that, given the content of the Constitutional Court's decision, we would make a joint effort to imitate it with the Constitution in the sense that the Constitutional Court's decision requires it. It was practically an attitude that was reflected by actors in the Regional Assembly, although I must say to this occasion that there were conflicting ideas, understandings, not in general in relation to the completeness of the decision, but in relation to certain elements. What is a lesson and what must be said to this occasion is that this decision, written on 140 pages, is full of findings that are in collegiate. It's not in any case a decision that's completely clean as a tear. It is a decision that carries in itself a series of shortcomings, but regardless of these shortcomings, the basic message, the basic imperative in terms of behavior was completely unequivocal, which is behavior in terms of respect of that decision. Ladies and gentlemen, immediately after the Constitutional Court's decision was taken, it has been fuelled by an almost unequivocal, unique political commitment to put political ambitions and different views on the issue of Vojvodina autonomy on the other hand in relation to the imperative of respect for the Constitutional Court's decision. We've spent more than five months searching for ideas, solutions, sentences that could mean that we can experience this day, that we have a two-thirds majority of the province's parliament behind the proposal. It was not easy for either individual, political, or human, or from the aspect of belief, to understand what the state of Serbia should be like in the 21st century, but it is absolutely unequivocal that this difference was suppressed by all to eliminate the danger it is lurking, and that danger was linked to the fact that if within six months of the time of the Constitutional Court's decision, there is no consensus, there is a greater danger that can be treated as a collapse of the part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. The responsibility of all of us was stronger than the experience of the particular issue that we are about or about today. I have to say to this occasion that a single platform was created in the province's parliament between the position and the opposition, that we were able to find solutions that allowed us not to be two-thirds but four-point majority to determine the proposal. What was the basic principle we were handling? The basic principle was that the unambiguous views of the Constitutional Court's decision were imperative for us, whether or not we agreed on those views. That imperative has been respected since the beginning. The second point was that where the Constitutional Court's decision allowed us to seek a solution to a certain extent of free movement, we were looking for solutions that we could eventually reach a consensus on. I can say that this proposal, on the one hand, is respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, and on the other hand, one balanced proposal in which everyone sees or recognizes an idea of their own, but also, no one in a political sense can see his own position as an absolute winner, nor as a position defeated. In that sense, I think this text is more important than the text itself, because it indicates that at significant times it is possible to exceed your own political shadow. Ladies and gentlemen, on the margins of explaining this text, I must say that, over the past five months, it has been a permanent issue, and that is the issue of the general position of the AP Vojvodina. We said in these discussions – no, now is not the time to talk about these things, because we have to respect, to act in terms of the Constitutional Court's decision. I must say this time that this question is an open question, that by adopting the Statute in this way, we have not solved this issue. If we want to arrange Serbia in a way that solutions can be longer, then I think we need to put these issues on the table and we need to talk about these issues. Does the issue of Vojvodina's autonomy be seen as a question of normality, or is this a question that is experienced, as is often the case, as is the issue of danger with regard to the Republic of Serbia? I must say, at this point, a few days after the 166th anniversary of the Mayan Assembly, that the matter of 166 years was open. Today, when we talk about the Statute, I hope that in two days we will make decisions that will satisfy the imperatives of the Constitutional Court's decisions. We cannot forget these questions, we must put these questions on the table and about these issues must also be a public discussion, without anyone being branded for it, without anyone, in any way, being qualified in a negative way. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that by laying down the proposal of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, she has shown her political maturity. I think the actors, the political parties present at the AP Vojvodina Assembly, despite the fact that at some point it was extremely difficult to accept certain solutions, showed political maturity. In the end, I want to thank you again for coming to the agenda so quickly. I would ask that, following the debate, a positive position take a positive position and that agreement on the proposed text, so that, within a few days, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina may make a decision on the adoption of the statutes and, after the publication of that text, still within the time limit left by the Constitutional Court, meet the obligations imposed by the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1389	Thank you. I thank the president of the AP Vojvodina. Dear People's MPs, given that MP Goran Vukadinovic did not take an oath at the meeting of the National Assembly on 12 May 2014, it is necessary to do so now. Accordingly, I ask you to agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly approach the swearing of an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. We continue to work on the agenda of the session. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1390	Dear Madam President, Mr Pastor, President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we are talking about a subject that has been discussed a lot, a topic very often used, both in propaganda purposes and in various campaigns, where parties simply raced in demagogy and populistism, and I would therefore thank Mr Pastor at the beginning of my presentation for this presentation, in which, as always, he was very clear and open when it comes to the autonomy of Vojvodina, as well as any other problems concerning the people of Vojvodina. The Serbian Renewal Movement, such a speech without demagogy and populism, will always support and always support it. The Serbian Renewal Movement is one of the first parties to determine the autonomy of Vojvodina by adopting a Declaration in Vojvodina in 1994, by saying that autonomy is no danger to the unity of the Serbian state and the Serbian people, but rather one positive liquid that should be embraced in the best interests of all the citizens of Vojvodina and the entire state of Serbia. It was precisely because of our literal commitment to the real, functional autonomy of Vojvodina that we participated in the process of adopting the Statute of Vojvodina, trying to improve the proposed text by submitting amendments to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. However, in the whole process of adopting the Statute, citizens in Vojvodina turned out to be victims of a conflict within a party, that is, its board in Vojvodina and Belgrade's headquarters, which in recent days has become apparent to the entire public of Serbia. We therefore consider it a very positive fact that all actors on the political scene have agreed on the new text of the Statute, which is a far more serious approach to resolving this issue than it has been in the last few years. We particularly consider it a significant solution to the introduction into the use of the traditional symbols of the Vojvodina created in the 1848 revolution, because this symbolically proves that Vojvodina was not created in 1945, which unfortunately many still call for, which is the expression of the state-of-the-art ideas of Serbs living in the Danube monarchy. In the SPO, we believe that autonomy is not a state, but a process within which both Vojvodina and other regions in Serbia's territory, which will be formed in the future, can be mastered by new competencies. Therefore, it should not run away from the broad public debate on changes to Serbia's Statute, which will certainly change in years ahead of us, considering provisions on Vojvodina whose changes would allow a wider scope of competence for the AP than the existing constitution allows. I would also like to point out that we are one of the parties who has expressed doubts that the 2006 Constitution is sufficiently functional in various areas, including those concerning the autonomy of Vojvodina. So we refused to give full support to the constitutional referendum, calling on our supporters to vote on their own conscience. However, this still in force constitution is respected in every letter of its own and the opinion of the Constitutional Court is something that is implemented without discussion, especially if you are a sovereign party, and the SPO is. That is why we will vote, with the Constitution of Serbia, in line with the text of the AP Vojvodina Statute, and there has never been a dilemma for the SPO. I won't talk for long about this subject, because I want to talk about this subject as specifically as possible, as clearly as possible, so that today we have the opportunity to adopt this Statute of the Vojvodina, I believe with the great majority, and without too many stories, populist ideas and everything we've heard in the past. I hope my colleagues do the same. There's never been any misunderstanding for us when it comes to the Vojvodina. Vojvodina has always been a locomotive on Serbia's European path, but always within Serbia's state borders. As someone who comes from Vojvodina, I know very well from my 42 years of age that Vojvodina was a developed region, and that today is a completely different situation. I must express hope that these amendments to the AP Vojvodina Statute will be the first true step towards Serbia's final regionalisation and decentralisation, where other regions will also get wider powers and a greater chance of development, as resolved in all EU countries. After all, as everyone knows, and almost all of us here who are present are in favour of the EU, one of the four pillars on which the EU is operating is precisely more equal regional development. The largest funding is allocated for balanced regional development, through EU funds, and Serbia will have to use this opportunity a little better and more in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1391	Thank you. Representative of the Union of Duchy Hungarians Mr. People's MP Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1392	Mr. President of the Vojvodina Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents and Vice-President of the Vojvodina Assembly, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since 2007, since the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians has become a parliamentary party again, I have or had the opportunity to take part in at least 20 discussions or to witness in these few years, which have dealt directly or indirectly with the position of Vojvodina. There's been a lot of heated debates. Many MPs and citizens must remember the debate on the Serbian budgets with each current year on rebalancing, on the Law on Public Property, which we did not agree on in one significant part, on the Law on Forests, for which there was an interesting debate. At one point, the government accepted an amendment to move the forests into the possession of the Vojvodina, and the government changed its mind later. There's the railroad law. Once, we were able to block it as a parliamentary group, and later it was voted. There were a lot of bile and less bile discussions. What characterized all these discussions, surely today's debate will be dedicated in part, that's history. Many MPs are then, and I believe today will talk about the events of 1848, 1849, the events of 1918, and in 1945, and in 1974. To some, some other historical events were closer or more likable. For some, it may be the events of 1988 and 1989. What is better and more celery at this point is to return only until 2006 until the moment of the new Constitution. The new constitution, now not new, has established four tasks for the legislator, for parliament, for the RS government and partly for the AP Vojvodina Assembly. These were the adoption of the Statute of Vojvodina, the adoption of the Law on the Jurisdictions of Vojvodina, the adoption of the Law on the Financing of Vojvodina, the adoption of a Law governing the province's administration, the administration of the province. When a man recalls these seven, eight years since the constitution was passed, he can conclude that this period, at least as far as Vojvodina's autonomy is concerned, is one major joint failure and all ruling coalitions, as well as all former and present opposition. In fact, if we sum things up, then we can conclude that on one hand the Statute of Vojvodina was declared in 2009 in a good part challenged by the Constitutional Court, the Law on the Jubilee's Jurisdictions was also passed and in one significant part was challenged by the Constitutional Court. The law on the financing of the Vojvodina to this day has not been passed, nor has a law to regulate the position of the province's administration. For this reason, I think the conclusion is that no one can be satisfied with the position and autonomy of Vojvodina if we look at and observe the overall political spectrum. Not even those who are opposed to duchy autonomy can be satisfied. They certainly aim to make the autonomy of the Vojvodina as weak as possible and to make the position of Vojvodina as degraded as possible. Neither have they succeeded in these seven or eight years to achieve their goal. What may be interesting at this time is to sum up the impressions of this process of adopting or writing a new Statute of the Vojvodina. It's not common to talk about yourself first, your own political party, but I think this moment still requires that need. It is certainly one of the key impressions that the president of one minority party, or one minority party, has brought the full burden of political alignment to the new Statute of Vojvodina. I think it's an example that hasn't been present before, and that's proof that our political party has been up to the task in every way. On the other hand, and that's also an important impression, is that the DSS representative, Professor Slobodan Orlovic, was the one who on the professional side took the burden of bringing this document into line. Of course, it wasn't just him, but he played an extremely important role. When this process was started, it was certain that many doubted that he would succeed in doing so and the way in which he would approach the whole business. In the end, he was one of the most important linkes in today’s success. I'll talk about it later, why I think so. What is also an important impression is the way the biggest party of the ruling coalition has joined the whole business. Surely the biggest party in the ruling coalition had the most party reasons for this process to be unsuccessful, because if we had welcomed June 6th without the adopted Statute, it would probably mean early elections in Vojvodina by automated means. In this sense, it is certainly a matter of abstention and putting the general interest above the party's is also an important impression. It is also an interesting impression, i.e. that some politicians, political parties who felt that the Constitution was good in 2006, was advanced, today speak of the fact that the Constitution is still bad, especially in the work of Vojvodina and that it should be changed. I think it was a chance in 2006 to bring in a better constitution in that part. Unfortunately, that opportunity has been missed. That is what the President of the Vojvodina Assembly spoke of, which all the humiliations of the Vojvodina, representatives of the Vojvodina and Government Assembly had the opportunity to experience in the adoption of the former Statute of Vojvodina now. The president of the assembly spoke of the fact that the proposal today stood in a drawer in parliament and certainly not by the guilt of the then National Assembly president, simply then the political will, or lack of political will, was that it simply stood for a year in parliament. On the other hand, it is also an interesting fact, now somewhat historical, that compared to today's moment in the adoption of the previous Statute of the Vojvodina, the representatives of the Vojvodina were practically ignored. They were not allowed to come to parliament and explain the 2009 Statute. At that time, a single structure was invented that the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives was a proposing. If anything was humiliating, it must have been humiliating for both the congregation and the government, and I believe in the numerous citizens of Vojvodina. Fortunately, today we are not in this situation to discuss dutiful autonomy in this way. Otherwise, not only today but also in previous months, practice has changed and it is certainly encouraging. What may be the last, and not less important impression is the way the new Statute in the District Assembly was brought in, and particularly interesting behaviour is the behaviour of individual MEPs who did not want to take part in the vote on the Statute of Vojvodina. If a man analyzes this way of political behavior a little more in detail and thinks about the political consequences I think there may be interesting conclusions. Namely, if all MPs of the AP Vojvodina Assembly were to behave in this way and stay out of the hall and do not participate in the adoption of this statute in the Regional Assembly, then at this point we would have nothing to discuss, and since 6 June, the autonomy of Vojvodina would be destroyed. I think that all those who have treated this way according to this proposal have been without intent, probably without their will, but have practically helped those political parties whose goal is to collapse and degrade the position of Vojvodina. What else can be said about concrete text? I think there's a lot that's been said. What can certainly be realized is that the proposal for the Statute of Vojvodina cannot be better than the two decisions of the Constitutional Court relating to Vojvodina and that is what is crucial. How much the Constitutional Court has set up with the decision on the Law of Jurisdiction and the decision on the Statute of the Vojvodina border, set clear limits, then simply at this time this is as far as possible, and that this is in accordance with the Constitution and that it is in line with the existing political will, political situation in Serbia. What is important from that point of view is certainly today, and also the day when the Duke's statute is declared, success, is the fact that it is, however, marginal but still existing political forces which aim to make Vojvodina's position even worse, that autonomy is even weaker, that it is not and will not succeed. This is most important for all those whose position and strength and possibilities of the Duke are important. If a man reads the bill of statutes and thinks about the content in a contentual sense, or the context of the text, then everyone can conclude that this level of autonomy is far from the level of autonomy of developed European regions. I think this finding will be agreed by those who do not want the position of Vojvodina to be stronger. On the other hand, and that may be the most important point for us, the most important argument why we will support, why we are ready to support this proposal of the Statute is that this document is worth European. If we read the first article of the document, we will see that the autonomy of Vojvodina is based on European principles and European principles and that it is not just a dead letter on paper, so this formulation tells us about it and the fact that we have managed to convince our partners that, in addition to the notion of national minorities in the text of the statutes, the formulation of the national communities is included. For many people, there may be no big difference between those two concepts, but in a valuable sense, there is a huge difference. It is no accident that all members of minority communities and all political parties of minority communities are talking about this problem, the fact. In all, today's day is for us encouragement, encouragement because those legislative tasks set by the 2006 Constitution are still moving towards resolution today. There will be agreement in the Serbian parliament today on the text, a few days later the declaration of the statutes will follow. That will solve one part of our tasks, at least at the moment. On the other hand, that is a key encouragement for us, and that is that we have reached political agreement with the biggest party of the ruling coalition that in the coming weeks a serious job is committed to writing a law on the financing of Vojvodina and probably amendments to the Law on the Powers of Vojvodina, at the end and the Law on Regional Servants. If in the months to come, by the end of the year, about that would be an indicative deadline, in all the things I've been talking about we will succeed, it will surely be possible to realize that this year we have done everything we could to strengthen, not weaken the position of Vojvodina. For all these reasons, the proposal on today's agenda enjoys the full support of SVM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1393	Thank you. Now JS representative, MP Srdjan Kruževic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1394	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Presidency of the Vojvodina Assembly, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, certainly should not be much circled on this subject today, given the situation in which the entire country is located, but here we speak our opinion in front of the JS and parliamentary groups. The Statute of the AP Vojvodina at the moment that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia obliges us according to the citizens' last statement is certainly 95% of the citizens standing through their political representatives behind the statute. Given that a large number of parties have stepped behind the statutes and that maltenes have reached one political consensus in the Vojvodina Assembly, it is certainly expected that there is little dissatisfaction behind all those who will support this statute. Unique Serbia will, of course, vote in favour of the draft statute and as a party that advocates the widest form of decentralisation we will wait with our political partners for a possible change to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that we can also talk about some new opportunities of the Vojvodina in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Since there is a difficult period ahead of us to correct mistakes from the past and certainly all other things that have happened to us unplannedly, I do not think that at this moment of demagogy can help us much, and yet I note, given 95% of the people of Vojvodina and Serbia who are behind this proposal, I am grateful to all the parliamentary groups who today in their short statements will give their opinion on it. I suggest that as soon as possible we adopt this statute so that we can move forward in order to rebuild the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1395	Thank you. The word has a representative of the SDP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. President-in-Office of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to stress that the SDP will support the draft statute and will vote in favour of this statute in the day of voting. We do it for a number of reasons. The first reason is that the SDP advocates the rule of law, a consistent legal system, because it is one of the fundamental pillars of the rule of law and the fact that this alignment of the Statute of Vojvodina with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia means that we have one comprehensive legal system. Secondly, a political and constitutional crisis has been avoided that could have arisen if it hadn't been for this reconciliation. Third, I want to confess to the actors of political life in the AP Vojvodina who have found an agreement and compromise on this solution. Of course, with this agreement, it is rare that anyone is satisfied for a simple reason because you cannot be satisfied unless you have reached the goals that every political party in Vojvodina has. I will not speak here in words that have already been known - what is required of the autonomy of the Vojvodina? Is it functional, is it essential? In my opinion, these are just words games, for the simple reason to hide a certain essence, which is that autonomy does not have that degree in Vojvodina that is necessary for Vojvodina to develop properly and sufficiently within the Serbian state. I must point out that the 2006 Constitution is the generator of all crises, which has many solutions that are unspeakable, insufficient and which has largely cut down all what Vojvodina had in the earlier period. Often when we talk about Vojvodina, there is a kind of danger, as Mr. Pastor said, that it is always said what the people of Vojvodina are looking for. What we in the Social Democratic Party believe is that Vojvodina must have in Serbia a framework that will enable it to develop properly, have clear competences, but also clear responsibilities. In this period since 2006, by adopting this new constitution, we have been in a situation that just because of the indeterminateness was often political volunteerism, everyone interpreted what was appropriate to him. This allowed the leaders of individual political parties and certain political parties to take matters into their own hands, arbitration and lead to the situation that they determine what degree of autonomy it is. Of course, it did not suit the citizens of Vojvodina and this led to the fact that Vojvodina began to lag behind, that certain parts of the Vojvodina were truly and undeveloped, which never happened in Vojvodina. That is why we insist on the current constitution, which is still in force, which I also believe is not the time to change, to pass these two laws, and that is the law on the financing of Vojvodina, to finally remove from the agenda these famous 7%, to know what 7% is and where these funds are going to go, and the other is the law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. With this statute we will have one set of laws that will allow the situation and the situation to be as normal, to know what responsibility, what to do and how to do. Of course, we come up with a question when can we change the 2006 Constitution? It is also an obstacle to Serbia's further development, not only of Vojvodina, for a simple reason, because it came as a fruit of a political moment, a consensus in that period that was and time had run over it. Of course, we will be in a situation that it will change, that we will pass many laws from the European agenda and thus this Constitution will be narrow and it will have to be changed. In this context, we can look at the possibilities for Vojvodina to have autonomy from various aspects of autonomy that exist in the EU. That means, if we want one European Serbia, there must be a European Vojvodina in European Serbia, and that is where we will look for ways that are best for Vojvodina in Serbia to develop. And here's another thing. Let's think about some middle-level government. We used to have cuts in Croatia, Hungary, in Romania there are counties. It's these tragic events that we've now had that show how many of our local authorities and how much we miss that middle level of government. What does that mean? This means that part of the state's jurisdiction is being transferred to a lower level to the citizens, where citizens will be able to control, evaluate the work of these individuals, and this is how we have brought the local authorities down to the mere perpetrators of a centralized state, which often hides their incompetence just because everything decides somewhere up at the top. If we want Serbia to develop evenly and have parts that will develop much better than before, we need to think about that middle level of government that I was talking about here. Of course, that's all possible when we're in a position to discuss the new constitution, and in my opinion and my assessment, it won't be in two years. That's exactly why we can think about it. In the end, I want to say next. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will give full support to the statute, and we also expect that these two laws, which are necessary by accompanying documents, will be passed by the end of the year, for the simple reason that we think there is a political consensus and a desire to end it and that, in accordance with what we have agreed at this point, we move on. This will also allow Serbia to develop much better, as well as Vojvodina within Serbia to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1397	Thank you. The speech has a representative of the PUPS parliamentary group, Milan Krkobibic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1398	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Pastor, the esteemed MPs, citizens of Serbia, today we do not adopt the Statute of Vojvodina, so that there is no confusion, we are being watched by the citizens of Serbia, today we will only make a decision on granting consent to the previous procedure. Mr. Pastor, I've listened very carefully, you've exhibited great, there's emotion, there's a lot of reactions, and in one place I've noticed, you've potentiated the octore of all of this. You've said it great, but if I can comfort you, we Serbs are used to our political history that we also have a limited constitution. They lasted one day, so they were prone. It's nothing weird. I am trying to understand your position, to understand the MPs from your parliamentary group who used a single word, said the position and position of Vojvodina's failure to act as Serbian political scene actors for a long time. Is that in place and does that stand? I'd agree with him. Just what we're doing today is part of that failure. In this act, we accept in some way that there are institutions in this country, that there is a Court of Justice and we are slowly trying to respect certain solutions, whether we like it or not. Of course, you will have the agreement of the PUPS parliamentary group on this voting process. You've said some things, and in all of this, I feel that you are in the future expecting a new definition of the position and position of the AP Vojvodina. I think this Parliament should understand it that way. Of course, constitutional matter is living matter and it must adapt, but it should not always be the result of political compromise. We have to leave the political compromise on the other side, and let's focus, in the most part of our exposure, you're just talking about the essence, the very essence, that we're going to meet events, to deal with them in agreement, and not to, post-festum, we finally realize that we're bringing some formal actions into harmony with what had to be brought together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1399	Thank you. The word has a representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group, master of Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1400	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respected members of the District Government, can't help but look back at the fact that this Statute, which was proposed today in the plenary session, is being watched from the vision of the Members coming from Somboro. Sombor is primarily a city that has laid the foundations and high standards of autonomy. Sombor is a city that won its autonomy in 1749, 100 years before the Mayan Assembly. So, that qualify me and obliges me to speak with special respect today about this subject. First of all, I am bound by the haystacks of those who fought for the free royal city of Sombor and, of course, I cannot help but mention one great Sombor politician, one of the first presidents of the National Committee when Sombor participated actively in the adoption of Serbia's Vojvodina, Dr Joce Jovan Lalosevic. So all of this is embedded and I recognize all of it in this text of the statute that is before us today. I thank Mr. Pastor for putting out what we as NS MPs represented several years ago in this same house, which is that that earlier statute was not in line with the Constitution, which is his first and primary obligation. What we will surely support as a MP club of the NS is the proposal of the Statutes, already contained in Article 1(2) in a provision that says – the AP Vojvodina is an inseparable part of the Republic of Serbia, which cultivates European principles and values. That's what we must be representing to the end with our political views. What is particularly commendable in this Statute and for the example of Europe as a whole is exactly what Mr Lajcak said on a recent visit that the example of the whole of Europe in respect of the rights of all national minorities and human rights in general is contained in Article 6 and in Article 7 of this Statute, very precise, very clear, very specific. I have one small remark and a grudge, maybe that's why Article 8 is out of line, because article 6 already provides for everything. Also, what we welcome are Articles 21, 22, 23, 24 where really the highest standards are set in the care of the rights and obligations of life in Vojvodina, multinational communities. We in Vojvodina have always been able to live with each other. History has shown that the Dukes have been able to recognize what the real values are and to choose for them. When you spoke about the issue of autonomy as a political issue that has often been misused, and Serbia has submitted serious political and state frustrations to the issue of autonomy, and we are all aware of that in the near history. Vojvodina had a different path, very brave and very bold, but very clear. When you said that perhaps the Mayan Assembly had raised some questions, issues of autonomy, I think that the Mayan Assembly in 1848, lasted until 1849, just closed the issue, and that Austria as a serious state recognized it as a serious issue and tried a political maneuver declaring Serbia's Vojvodina, Serbia and the Tami Banat already in 1849 to overcome the political problem that had opened up in these areas, but also to respect one huge national state-owned energy that existed there and that existed there. In light of this we are today observing this statute, this proposal of the statutes, and we are aware that if one question is, and I am telling you, the Mayan congregation actually did not open it but closed it in 1918, the Great National Assembly sealed the issue. At that moment, Serbian Vojvodina decided to join Serbia, to become an integral part although you remember the words of our great tribunal, Jasa Tomic, who said -- Vojvodina will only be in Yugoslavia if it finds Serbia through Belgrade. It is forever the definition of the Duke. So, Vojvodina respects its specialities, our historical moments that distinguish us and we all have the right, because we always say that we have the right to vary and that diversity makes us richer, aware of everything we've been through in these premises and realizes exactly how much this statute today, the proposal for a statute of state-political recognition of the Vojvodina and the act of promoting the state of Serbia. That is why, and because of all that we have in mind, we NS MPs, the national party in Voting Day, will support the proposed Statute of Vojvodina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1401	Thank you. The word has a representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1402	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm going to try not to stick to the usual pace in this story, and I hope this isn't going to be a duchy dialogue. I see everyone's trying and presenting, and we Dukes love to be our own, we like to be cultural, we like to have special mentality, but unfortunately others also think it belongs to them. I hope I don't cause replicas, but I'll start with my favorite saying in Hungarian to make a difference first of all, I'll be free to say, with my political friends, Mr. Pastor whom I thank endlessly for uniting us there in Vojvodina when we couldn't have Serbs, then the Hungarians helped us. I really thank you very much. (The emissary pronounces a proverb in Hungarian). That proverb says, "To be or not to be a question is now." We're not at that level of the story right now. You know how, for a very long time, there's been a controversy in Serbia, when you were talking about octrophe, about the position of Vojvodina. She was octrossed and in 1974, and the king had cut us off before that. She was also octrossed in 1990, in which we also participated in socialists. It was also in the year 2006 because we ran some of the parties that were still participating with us here, and will continue to take part. The fight against this constitution where, thanks to the small blackmails in the previous assembly of the Republic, we actually got the most power that Vojvodina ever had, excluding so much wanted in 1974, and we voted against that constitution. I will not argue with the political options, but no one is to blame that in the composition when DS was dominant and in this parliament, and especially in Vojvodina and the Socialists were also missing, I was involved as a Vojvodjan, and Nenad Canak as a Vojvodjan, there is no Bojan Pajtic as a Duchess, and you, Mr. Pastor, so we put a little pressure on this congregation majority to give us a little more. That's true. Unfortunately, those who were dominant in writing the previous statute have exaggerated in two things, in that the statute was written and secondly that they used those powers that the Vojvodina had attached. I'm talking about the Development Fund, I'm talking about the Health Fund, the Capital Investment Fund, everything else we've ruined ourselves. It's a good thing we're talking about it again, now we're going to do something different. I'll remind you that we and 2002 had two concepts. The concept of academic Fire which seemed to represent me was LSV, which is the Duke's Republic and the concept that advocated a softer approach, which advocated DS and SPS. Now if we want to use these mental and cultural advantages, and I would say above all the economic and regional advantages of Serbia, then we need to be smarter and wiser. What is this reason why we do not trust the Republic of Serbia? We say that we have cut this constitution. You know what, if you look at the provisions that exist in the laws and apply to the entire Republic of Serbia, so also to the Raška area, and also to Vojvodina, which is the use of language, letters, minority rights, etc. Why don't we trust the Republic of Serbia that they can be and transfer jurisdiction? I am absolutely sure that even after the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it must be, the Statute of the AP Vojvodina will begin on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Here are those who use a sentence – Vojvodina is a part of the Republic of Serbia. It also says in the proposal, Vojvodina is an inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia. Let's get these questions off the agenda. Autonomy is not decentralisation. decentralisation is what we're going to give to the municipalities. If we are talking about decentralisation in Serbia, we should only talk about economic decentralisation, because this will allow even regional development. See when trouble happens, as it happened in Serbia, how people unite, how are they willing to help us from neighboring countries, by surrounding us, with whom we may be fighting, and what are we really fighting about? We're fighting politics. Every war, at least politically, is just a continuation of politics by other means. Therefore, in resolving those rights, which is to live decently, I continue to argue that there is no difference between an unemployed Serb and a Hungarian and a hungry Muslim and a hungry Christian, however you wish. If we need to solve this, we need to resolve it in a unique manner in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. What was wrong with the previous statute that we waited one year, one month and 15 days? First of all, political dissension. There was no readiness, there was no political will to come to what we had come to today. So, when this proposal of the statutes to which we are to give consent today is well analysed, I say that we and one of the powers of the AP Vojvodina are not diminished. To describe my position, he won't mind my fellow MPs, and my colleague Misa Petronijevic just walked in, he's the leading Belgrade centralist, so he says, I can't listen to you, he's not going to represent us, of course in the best sense of that word. We have the duchy Serbs, but also the duchy Hungarians and the Russians, and the Slovaks and all the other many traditions in that life or co-existence, each other, which we know very well to guard. For many years, Serbian history, tradition and culture has been preserved in Vojvodina. We know very well how to defend it. You, Mr. Pastor, excuse me for speaking to you personally, you know very well what the Hungarian Parliament looks like. Hungary was once an empire, but when you enter the Hungarian parliament, there are folk costumes and customs of all nations that have ever been part of the Austro-Hungarian or Hungarian Empire. Even the wrong things have been described, which were historically not good for the interest of the Hungarian people in that parliament. And it's very picturesque. We had to find a compromise on whether we were going to use these new European symbols with these three stars and this flag we pulled, small Serbian, and some nationalists, ok. Fortunately, Banat and Buck, and where is Baranja, God forbid we go back to those stories and see no reason to use traditional symbols. What are we ashamed of here? I hope, as these new ones are put together here, because it is the fruit of political compromises, that at the same time, when you make a decision on the use of these symbols will be used and traditional and then we'll all be satisfied. If we've had a good example of how international relations are solved anywhere, then it was at that time, I'll be free to say, I'll risk being accused when there was a Austro-Hungarian empire, not of those pressures, but of respecting civilization norms. When we talk about amendments to the Constitution, this Constitution will not solve our economic problems. I guess we'll write it based on the best European standards. One more thing I want to say is that it's good and bad. It's very good, I've been thinking whether to be explicit against this -- ethnic communities, but let it be also -- national minorities, which is normal for Europe, be -- ethnic communities, what was the intensity here, and let them have all the right to the Law on ethnic communities that arise, and I don't see any problem here. Someone has made an effort to induce a two - house sound of the duodominal assembly. I think it's a good thing it's gone in this Statute. I do not see the need since it is the exclusive jurisdiction of the Republic and the Constitution to discuss further the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts. If I were to look at the biographies of these academics, I would never agree to form an academy with them, and it seems to me that SANU would have to be a little more involved in political and scientific life than it is today, because these are people who live for science, who have their own personality, their own word. I think SANU and her department in Novi Sad are enough for us. Just one example to point out. One more thing politically to comment on, we had power when it was necessary to pass the Law on Finance, the Property Act and the Law on Regional Servants. Mr. Canak, I'll listen very carefully. I voted with you last time. I would really give you an Oscar. I apologize, President, for speaking directly to my fellow MP, you had to warn me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1403	Just for the seriousness of the agenda, I won't warn you. Speak to me, and the Messenger Canak will understand you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1404	I warned myself. One more thing I want to comment on, if we are looking at serious constitutional matter, is really the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, a sublegal act, and it cannot edit certain things that have been adopted in the former Statute. I'm very glad that I don't have that information, and I'd have to have it, and I'd like to share it with everyone, if there's an agreement between the SVM and the SNS on writing these three laws, the Finance Act, the Property Act, and we can talk about the transfer of powers, we can also talk about the province officials, however you want. It's just some of the remarks I've had, because I realized we shouldn't have sex. I think we should, and that's the thing of the circuit assembly, to think about also changing the electoral system, but since it's not the subject of the Statute itself, I'll just say it, because I think it should be proportionate and of course respect all minorities as it is at a republican level. The other thing I like very much is that we are not playing any parliamentary system. The Vojvodina Assembly, which will represent us, the dukes, whatever religion, culture or whatever they are, is the main organ. She's wondering about everything. I'm going to vote, and so is my parliamentary group for this, but I think it was much better if there was an Executive Greater AP left, not a terrible topic, but the government, the District Government, but the government. Some tend to, especially when they have the majority to abuse it. If we had such a discussion as you, President, imposed and led in parliament, it wouldn't have lasted so long for these discussions that we have today. I deliberately said that sometimes with me in the parliamentary group, when we talk about Vojvodina or we're looking for, they say – and you're an autonomist. I'm not an autonomist, I'm a patriot's bar, and unfortunately, in most of the wars Serbia has failed to wage, and now I'm going to participate in all the peace we're going to create. So there'd be something else to say. I deliberately pointed this out. I'm not playing any government here, and that's good. There's no government impeachment here, there's nothing like what's in the Republic Constitution, it can resign and the Prime Minister of the duchy, it won't fail the government, we can solve some minister, it doesn't mean anything terrible. But I welcome that there are certain responsibilities left, and I can read them, but I think at this point it may be pretentious, where we're told what we're going to do. What do I like? I like what each of these items says at the end – based on the law. This means that we will finally try to ensure that the autonomy of the Vojvodina, not only in the future constitution, but in the current legal practice, which I hope to implement jointly, this vast coalition majority that exists today in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and which, with your complete presence, as the leadership of the duchy parliament, has shown that it will have a different relationship with the so-called so-called. The Duke's question. I don't like the word 'cos there' as such does not exist. But I agree that some things we duchess should do. I'm glad there's a lot of jurisdiction left. Some will be transferred. I hope that the future executive or future province government will do more than do today, depending on which criteria you apply, from 11 to 17 undeveloped municipalities in Vojvodina. I hope the average salary in Vojvodina will be higher than in the Republic, which is not the case now. I hope unemployment is less than in the Republic, which is not the case now. I would like to say that in all the political processes that mean civilization, legal, constitutional, whatever you want, and above all the economic and cultural development of Vojvodina, there will be political support for the Socialist Party of Serbia. But there will never be support that implies that Vojvodina is not an inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia. I'd have a lot more to talk about, but I realized that there was a silent political agreement, if 100 out of 120 duke MPs voted for this, there was no need to spread the discussion. I didn't want to provoke anyone, I was more of a talker from my own local, duchy corner than I had the idea of being too smart. This is quite enough to satisfy all our interests and needs – both minority, majority and whatever you want, within the framework of the Republic of Serbia, if we are well organized in the Vojvodina Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1405	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1406	Dear Mr. President of the Vojvodian Assembly, the Honorable Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, friends and comrades, I think the notoral fact that never in Vojvodina is a good time to talk about it. Simply, whenever a question was raised about what was really going on, something came up that was more important and distracting. Today, it is, unfortunately, tragic events in our country, tragic floods. I think that holding this session, which we have proposed to the president of the National Assembly, should have been postponed for a while, because right now, while our fellow citizens and citizens of Serbia are struggling with the flood verse, talking about a sensitive issue like this, means talking about a question that we won't agree on. To talk about a question of which we have a diametrically opposite opinion, and right now, if we need something in this country, we need unity, and we need it just as nobody asks who's from which party, or who's any religion, or who's any nation, but everyone defends their country that's equal to anyone who's there, so we should be here. We should have done it by abolishing the humanitarian aid donation tax, removing the toll collection in Sreme, putting the labour place in Ruma in use, rather than putting pregnant women from Mitrovica, from all over Srem, to Belgrade and Novi Sad. That's what we were supposed to do. To my great regret, this is not the case, and I am forced to talk about something that I do not think is at this time, because the Constitutional Court, and that is, apart from consensus, the most common word mentioned in this House, does not live outside this country and is not some god-awful body that has the right to, while everything else is in an emergency, behaves as some absolute ruler of our fates, a team before that same Constitutional Court has, over the past many times, embarrassed and countless times shown its incompetence. I will remind you, there was a session of the National Assembly in the same hall when Kosovo declared independence. There's a debate in this same room about what to do. I am the only MP, if I remember correctly, who went out to speak with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and said, "I don't see what the question is, except perhaps the edge of Dacic, don't blame me if I forgot." All in all, at that time I said that the Constitution clearly states what needs to be done and that the Constitution clearly states that Kosovo and Metohija are an inseparable part of Serbia's territory and therefore knows what needs to be done. All the great patriots said it was about political adventure. What is the right then to estimate that this is political adventure if it was a constitutional obligation? The right of the Constitution to be trampled, for when the Constitution is trampled on any part of it, it ceases to be valid. That's what's very important. That's why I don't understand the great contribution that was made to, here, not the constitutional crisis. Well, there's been a constitutional crisis since this constitution. The constitutional crisis exists because it is an illegal, illegal constitution, which, for example, did not win most of it in Vojvodina after two days and one night of voting. I especially mention that night. After two days and one night of voting, he failed to win the necessary majority to pass. Of course, it doesn't matter, he passed through in Serbia's territory and the citizens of the Vojvodina respect him, but the National Assembly itself didn't respect him that way, the Constitutional Court itself didn't answer, because, my God, it's an important state issue. All in all, we have a fundamental question when speaking here about the Statute of Vojvodina – is this Assembly, whether Serbian citizens and whether Serbia wants to or does not want the AP Vojvodina to exist? Is the AP Vojvodina needed at all, or should it just be abolished or should what has been done for a quarter of a century, which is that it is gradually choked every time in a small way, and those who in the AP Vojvodina devalue its institutions, devalue its organs and bring them down to mere stories that do nothing, other than give material to the media for how much the province's MPs have or do not have salaries and how much the province's administration costs, devising the idea of the autonomousness of the Vojvodina in general? One of the colleagues mentioned that one of the pillars of Europe is the middle level of government, but the middle level of government, according to the population, surrounds approximately two million inhabitants. It's a standard of European middle-level government. The duchess fits in. We have a big misunderstanding about the notion that Vojvodina is not opposed to Serbia but is part of it and that the effort to improve the citizens of Vojvodina is not an advocate against the Republic of Serbia, but rather a better local responsibility for one part of the Republic of Serbia. That's what you don't understand deeply about all this. This Statute, which we are talking about here, which is constantly referred to as a consensus, because four-fifths of the MPs voted for it in the Assembly of the province of Vojvodina. So, all in all, after four-fifths of the MPs voted in the AP Assembly, let's see who these MPs are. We will see that these are from the very President of Parliament and, moreover, members of the ruling majority in the republic or those who are afraid of prison, with honor of the exceptions that we can count on the fingers of one hand. We're getting a very simple situation that this alleged consensus is actually about accepting something dictated, which the president himself said was about octrossed freedom, and octrossed freedom is called slavery. So, it's dictated what it's going to be, we took orders and that's it. Then where's the unity? Where, then, is the free will expressed belief that this is the way it should be? It's not there. Then be careful, in the preamble itself, i.e. in the first position, it speaks of what was also one of the consensually adopted thesiss, that Vojvodina was created by the 2006 Constitution, created, organised, formed by the 2006 Constitution, and in the same Statute it states that it should have traditional symbols from 1848. Now, explain to me, if it was formed in 2006, how did it get traditional symbols? If it has traditional symbols, then it must have been formed earlier, otherwise, it can't have tradition. One of the misunderstandings that we didn't vote for this Statute is this one about these traditional symbols. For traditional symbols was taken the coat of arms of Vojvodina, the Duke of Serbia from 1848. I will remind you, since personally as President of the Vojvodina Assembly, I chaired the session that the current symbols of the Vojvodina were made after consultations with the parliamentary groups, where the actual coat of arms of the three fields represented the marks of Srema, Banat and Baka from 1699 and 1799. A year. These are: the symbol of St. Paul gave Leopold the First Bacon, and Srem and Banat Maria Teresa. They're territorial symbols. They don't have any national authority. That is why, because our SVM friends insisted that the coat of arms of the Serbian coat of arms that resembles the defeat of the Lajoša Kosuta revolution and Petefi Shandor in 1848, where Serbs were given the right to form autonomy to help the Austrian crown. That's why we threw out those symbols to create a territorial coat of arms that doesn't have any political or national connotation, and that's why we did it. Now he insists on introducing a traditional coat of arms. All right, you want a traditional coat of arms, there's no problem. Let's ask what that traditional coat of arms looked like. It was designed in the May Assembly as a copy of the Serbian Book of History, and it is very decadently described in the third position of the Sretenjski Constitution and how many glasses are standing and how many of them are there and that these are white glasses on the white cross on the red field, etc. The Duke of Serbia took over that coat of arms. Just instead of the flag, and I'll remind you, the Serbian flag is red-white-blue, not red-blue-white, because the Happy Constitution is decided to say it's red-white-blue, but Sultan Mahmoud banned it and sent the Serbs a red-blue-white flag to use it. All in all, because of this, there are red-and-white ribbons on the Sretenjska coat of arms, while only the blue ribbon was on the coat of arms of Vojvodina, the Duke of Serbia. I'm saying all this for the next one. That's what we asked about during this debate, where our professional associates at the Vojvodina Assembly all the time were giving out opinions about this Statute. What does the Vojvodina Museum say? I'll read you what he says. He says – the proposed coat of arms in the draft of the Statute is described in a leaflet that is kept in the 1848 Matica Srpske Library; the flag consists of three colors; then Sultan Mahmoud designed the flag of Serbia, horizontally placed on top of the red, in the middle blue and down white; on the blue as a characteristic color there is a folk coat of arms; the coat of arms is a white cross on a round red field between which the glass stands, all four, steely colors, dangerous on the right side of the bloodline, and on the left side of the olive branch, which are bound down with a blue slipper; the entire shield lies on the Duke's portfolio, hanging under the Duke's closed on two parts of the separated crown. That's the opinion of the Duke's Museum. We asked -- if you want traditional symbols, these are traditional symbols, let it enter the Statute. Of course, we didn't get an answer because a consensus has already been reached for the glasses to be gold without the coat of arms on the flag. Now explain to me, if something is traditional, then it should be in line with tradition. Tradition does not serve to change who comes to mind, but rather serves as these two crowns are on the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, while, for daily-political reasons, the Serbian king has been cast out for "God of Justice" anthem. In the Dutch anthem, which is the oldest anthem in use in the world, the free translation of the first verse reads – I am William of Nassau, the orange prince, every day I thank God for my German blood, I will always be faithful to the king of Spain. Tell the Dutch that they're Germans and you won't have a good time. The Spanish king can come to Holland as a tourist. But those are the words of an anthem that don't change because it's a mark of continuity. That's why we insisted, if you would traditionally, then it must be exactly the same as it used to be. Of course, we are told that we insist on the details, that because of the shade of the glasses we will not support the Statute. Excuse me, how many MPs here would say that Serbia's flag is red and green and white? I believe that it would not come to great enthusiasm, since it is the flag of Bulgaria, and this is the flag of Serbia, as the happy flag could then be red-and-white, which is the flag of Hungary, is not the flag of Serbia. Thus, the colors are important, for whoever does not distinguish steel and gold has a serious problem. There is a complete misunderstanding. We have come to Vojvodina in the position that, on the one hand, it is constantly claiming that this constitutional order will collapse, and no one is telling the truth that the whole Constitution has been wrong since the very beginning. All those who have now voted for this Statute are those who voted for that Constitution. Don't forget that, with honor of exceptions. Don't forget that this constitution is the problem of all problems and that opening the constitutional crisis, if you will, is in fact the way out of the blizzard it is, because this constitution is made as it is, with the main explanation that its main advantage is what will be easier to change, and once it turns out that it is immutable, it suddenly turns out that only the Constitution can't be touched, that only the Constitutional Court decides everything, and all of us who live here need to agree on everything else. I will not mention that in the meantime the institutions of Vojvodina have been humiliated, that we have come into a position to, say, prevent the District Parliament from making a statement about the Law on Public Property, because in September 2011, the Vojvodina Assembly is due to discuss amendments to the Public Property Bill proposal, because during the night someone informed, an unknown person informed MPs that the Assembly is being postponed. I don't want to mention that we've given, like LSV 30 times, requests to discuss in the Vojvodina Assembly what to do with the compensation that Vojvodina is supposed to get for selling NIS. We did it all. All in all, however, these are the things that make us have this situation which is absolutely unworthy of the importance of this problem. Of course, we won't vote for this, we won't vote for this counterfeit, because changing the appearance of the coat of arms, the appearance of the flag, whatever it looks like, which is traditional, which is not, means agreeing to play with our history and our past, can play with whoever will and will. That's inadmissible. No one claimed that the duchess flag with three stars was traditional. No, she was designed in the Duke's Assembly at that time and received most of the MPs. Let them change it. Let them say, we want a new flag. It's their right. He wants a new coat of arms? It's their right, but don't rub it under the traditional coat of arms something you've just come up with, under the traditional flag of something you've just come up with. It is a historic forgery, which serves only to say, my God, that Vojvodina's part of Serbia is inseparable, unbreakable. Do you know why it is so important to insist that Vojvodina is an inseparable and unbreakable part of Serbia? Because that's what she is, so it's the only battle that can't be lost, because for everything else, where it's hit the patriot's chest, it's lost battles. We're not voting for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1407	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1408	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. President-in-Office of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, Mr Pastor, the esteemed Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that this time for debate on the Statute of the AP Vojvodina is not great and that the state of emergency is not a great time to discuss such an important issue. The point is that life should go on. In that sense, my discussion will be no less concrete because we have an emergency situation. The new Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green for Serbia, MP Boris Tadic, had the stance to support the AP Vojvodina Statute at today's session, had an attitude before the start of this session. However, the opening statement by the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, including some of the coalition members, who make up power in the Republic of Serbia, has, in some ways, swayed us. In fact, we've heard some words that NDS members would never agree to be part of the majority that votes for something that's been cut off. People in NDS aren't that kind of thing, because they're talking about steel and gold. So, we're not inclined to vote for something that's been cut short, and it's said by people who, in a way, suggest this Statute. However, we believe that these words are not quite true and that they have been used for political purposes, because we do not consider the Constitutional Court's decision to be deplete. On the other hand, we have heard disagreements from members of the ruling coalition on serious issues regarding this Statute. We have heard the views of the SPS, which are for the Regional Government to be called an executive council. We have the position of another partner, who is part of the ruling coalition at the republican level, that it should be the District Government. So, we at the republic's level in this House, we have two or three political parties who have announced their vote for this Statute, and they disagree. This brings us to a serious review of our decision. What makes Parliament group Boris Tadic, NDS, ZZS, Green Serbia think that today we should support this Statute is precisely the fact that we want the AP Vojvodina to enter a regular state. Because the Constitutional Court's decision, including the announcement of that decision, created a certain vacuum, political and legal, which was viewed in the collapse of the political integrity of the institutions of the AP Vojvodina, if you will, and the AP Vojvodina rating as the regions of Serbia and the European region. We think it should be fixed. We believe that the autonomy of the AP Vojvodina should be returned to the legal state, in a situation indicated by the Constitutional Court, and I will say something about the Constitutional Court's decision later, first of all, so that the citizens of Vojvodina can enjoy autonomy rather than have harm from autonomy. It turns out that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who live in Vojvodina, had more damage than that autonomy after the Constitutional Court's decision. That's where we'll probably all agree. We thought we'd have today's debate, given the time and place, without unnecessary politicisation, without collecting political points. This is an imposed situation. The Constitution, the Statute, the Statute declared unconstitutional, should be brought into line with the Constitution, and that is where lawyers should ask themselves. Of course, there's always the right policy, and I'll allow it. However, without the difficult assessments that would call into question the decision on such an important matter. The MP group Boris Tadic, NDS, when talking about autonomy, always talks about functional autonomy, and functional autonomy has been deprived of red tape, the transfer of tents from the Serbian Palace or Nemina to Banovina, and waiting in line in Banovina instead of in the Serbian Palace or in Germany. According to us, autonomy has also been devoid of new centralizations that allow citizens to wait again in Novi Sad instead of Belgrade and do not resolve their issues essential to their lives. According to us, functional autonomy is deprived of the non-purpose spending of funds, i.e. the irrational spending of funds that should serve for the purpose of achieving the functions of autonomy. What does functional autonomy mean to us, which I believe can be drawn from this Statute and from this Constitution? Functional autonomy should mean the possibility of economic empowerment, strengthening and better living the citizens of Vojvodina, citizens of Serbia living in Vojvodina. Functional autonomy should mean better health care, better social protection, better maternity status, better healthcare system in Vojvodina, better communal system. You should see some municipal infrastructure facilities in Vojvodina. You should go see what the bus stops in Vojvodina look like. You should see the homes of culture in certain places in Vojvodina. I believe that autonomy should contribute to the resolution of all these problems, and in particular to improving the position of national minorities, or national communities, most of which live and even are the headquarters of national councils in Vojvodina. Of course, this applies to other functions of autonomy, which is environmental protection and a number of other issues. For this Statute, we felt that we should vote only because it is Serbia's national interest that Vojvodina has autonomy. So it's not just a question of the Duke and I'm sorry that today, I think, only one MP who is not from the Vojvodina spoke about this issue. So this isn't just a question of the Duke. The autonomy of Vojvodina, but also decentralisation, is the issue of all Serbian citizens. We will vote despite what we have heard here today for consent to the Statute, because we believe the Constitutional Court's decision should be respected. Now let me say a few words about the Constitutional Court's decision. An initiative to assess the constitutionality of the AP Vojvodina Statute was launched in 2009. Today, dear gentlemen, fellow MPs are in 2014. So much for the efficiency of the Constitutional Court. So much for the efficiency of our legal system. One minister, who is now the minister without portfolio in charge of emergency situations, said the following words in this assembly a year ago when we discussed the Law on Planning and Construction, he said – support these provisions although they are unconstitutional. As the Constitutional Court decides on them, the Constitutional Court's decision will be irrelevant because all decisions of the law will already be implemented. That's how the legal system works and that's how the RS Constitutional Court works. Even the symbolism of the date on which the decision was published has something in it that makes us feel that this way of functioning of the Constitutional Court is not adequate. Something about the fact that we had an unconstitutional statute during this period. We had a constitution that was a matter of consensus, of course, like any constitution, should have brought the Statute of the AP Vojvodina and then started experiments in which some people who sit here and today will vote for the amended Statute. A statute has been passed waiting for Mr. Pastor a year and a few days of consent. However, according to the Statute, there was something that was not clear until the end, whether it was in accordance with the Constitution and many accused Boris Tadic at the time, not only then but later, that he was holding back the adoption of the Statute, and now you accept the same statute, you vote for it. Does that mean Boris Tadic was right then? Does this mean that you changed your mind overnight or was it a matter of longer-term thinking that you should not bring something that is short and that time does not correct and that we are in a position that we could overcome today? And because of that, even more is worth saying, which I said at first, that we are not inclined to participate in some things that are not entirely in line with democratic values, which means that we're depleting something. In any case, the NDS, MP Boris Tadic sees Vojvodina's autonomy as an autonomy that represents Serbian autonomy, autonomy within the Republic of Serbia, but also autonomy that has a European character, a region that is the European region. We see Vojvodina financially independent with original incomes and without fear that around New Year's, as every year, there will be a problem with budgeting, or the Law on the budgetary system of which the position is being reduced. This time infactual but nominally, therefore formally in the sense that 7% is no longer 7%. We see the autonomy of the Vojvodina that is deepening, stronger and that serves as an example in all those positions that have been spoken of today, to cultivate the position of national minorities, to cultivate different opinions, tolerability – in one word. But not just the Duke. We and Serbia see it as Serbia's region, and as someone said to Serbia that has some middle level of government, because surely this system of territorial organisation of Serbia is not ideal, or we could say that it is bad. We see Serbia once used the term deetatized. So, Serbia, where there will be no bureaucracy and a counter that will be its own purpose, but Serbia that will lower the level of decision on the most important things to the level of the local community. Why not mention local communities that now have no purpose at all? Why don't we mention the neighborhoods? Quartov organizations, perhaps, a quarter level of organization that would be necessary? Why not mention some cities in Serbia that have more than 300,000 inhabitants, which have no municipalities, which are conglomerates without the possibility of any local decision? In that sense NDS has a very clear view. Therefore, Parliament Club Boris Tadic - New Democratic Party - Together for Serbia - Green Serbia today will support this Statute in view of all the reserves that we have put into practice today and in the way we have discussed this act and the MPs of the NDS and here in the Serbian Parliament, as well as the NDS MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly will insist on meeting these powers. As we fight here to achieve our budget towards the Constitution, we will fight in the province to ensure that these responsibilities are implemented in an adequate way in favour of Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1409	The word is Dragan Gilas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1410	Dear People's MPs, honourable MPs, first of all, I would like to say that today it is difficult to discuss what is going on in Serbia, and that it might have been better if we had waited a year, a month and 15 days for the previous Statute, that we had waited another day. On the other hand, there are arguments that life must continue and that the Assembly should work. Now that we're here today, we need to finish the job we're here for, and that's giving consent to the Statute of Vojvodina. What bothered me a little is the mention of the term "octrossed freedom" because you have or do not have freedom, if it is detrossed, then you do not have it. I will agree that the Constitutional Court's decision is very rigid and most of the people in this country who deal with the topic and speak professionally, because it also resulted in Serbian citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina no longer having some rights to the decision. Indeed, there is no reason why the District Government has no possibility of helping families, pregnant women, building apartments for young scientists or any of what I think is also the meaning of the existence of power in any part of the world. The statute was mainly drawn up by consensus in the AP Vojvodina because there are disagreements about it, and most of the parties that make up today's parliament of the Republic of Serbia supports it. But this Statute of Vojvodina also has some sentences that, if some other day and another situation were likely to be discussed, such as a sentence – the work of the Provincial Government is directed by the Assembly. I don't understand what it means, it's an expression that's a little bit specific. It is known what is the authority of the Government, what is the jurisdiction of the Assembly. We've been doing a lot of symbolic things here, and I think the key is actually how we imagine Serbia, how we see our country, its territorial organization and everything else. I am sure that the fear that comes from time to time about the idea that someone should separate Vojvodina from Serbia is completely pointless, and that I simply don't see any serious man who deals with either politics or any serious business that can talk about it seriously. So I just don't think that's the way to approach here. I agree with some speakers who say that we need to make clear what our idea is, whether we Serbian citizens really believe in the need and believe in the autonomy of Vojvodina or that's something that just stands there, so we're all declarative somewhere, but some are not. I have no fear of the autonomy of Vojvodina or of the decentralisation of Serbia. I believe that such a way of territorial organisation and such an organisation of Serbia is something that enables citizens to be closer to the authorities and better protect their rights. It's supposed to be the essence of everything. That's why I'd use this to talk about it. I think a lot of people appear in public already, a lot of opinions that talk about the need and a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that would be brought into a slightly different atmosphere, in a different way than in 2006, when it was full of compromises and had some solutions that show today that are not good enough and that may even make it difficult for our country to develop. Through this constitution we need to define and what kind of Serbia we want, whether we want a centralised state or we want a state that is decentralised, which degree of right, transferred or direct jurisdiction we are ready to trust those who are at the levels of power below us. The DS position has been unchanged for years. We sincerely advocate Serbia's decentralisation, we sincerely advocate decentralisation not only in jurisdiction but also in money, because if you don't transfer the possibility to all those in power somewhere who have as much of the funds that are being realised and being made, they won't be able to exercise proper authority. There is no fear that constantly arises that there are not enough quality people at lower levels of government who will know in the right way these means to dispose. Most of us sitting here first went through these levels of government, and then came to the political parliament, so we think we have the quality of managing the state or doing some other job that the citizens have entrusted us with. We simply transfer funds to local levels of government. If they do their job well, the citizens will choose them again, if they do their job badly and have these resources badly, the citizens will no longer choose them. If there is a fear of misusing funds, then the competent authorities will bring them to justice and punish them for it. It has to be the system by which this country should function. At every step and every place. Vojvodina is of course specific to the rest of Serbia and because of representatives of other peoples, the non-majority Serb people who live there. We must respect this specificity and try to live with each other as best we can. In the difficult times behind us, which began 20 and a few years ago, many countries swearing to multinationality and in this kind of freedom have now become a minority one-national state. I think we should all be proud together that Serbia today really is a multinational state, that we have such laws on the councils of minority peoples that most say are the highest possible degree. Of course, we can always look for a new and better solution, but we are such a country, and that is something we should be proud of in every part of this country I expect that in the months ahead, we will open up a debate on some other topics for which the Statute of Vojvodina can be the basis to lead us to think about all of this, that we will decentralised Serbia, that we will bring as little as possible to the resources of local self-governments, respecting the need to fill the republican cash register with regard to the costs that exist, but that we will finally determine the rules, the laws behind which can stand as large a majority, no matter what authority, which opposition, and try to give everyone in Serbia the opportunity to plan something for a longer period of year, two days, how often it takes us to change something when they are financial. I expect that this Statute of Vojvodina, which today, surely, will get its own consent and will be voted by the DS parliamentary group, which has been waiting for less than a year, one month and 15 days faster, will take as long as possible, wanting to say that I also expect that through all that awaits us in an open debate and the organisation of the Serbian state, we will come up with solutions that will be best for the citizens. Believe me, the citizens of Vojvodina, I'm sure it doesn't matter that much if the District Government is called the Regional Government and the Executive Government. This is more important to us politicians who might want us to be in these governments, it is important to them probably, as Mr Canak mentioned, and what the symbols look like, but the vast majority doesn't know what symbols look like, and flags and coat of arms also have AP, have cities in Serbia, so no one should mind. The most important thing for all of these citizens is to find such solutions that they can expect their authorities to take care of them and do as much for their own good. Therefore, we need to make solutions that do not restrict the ability of these authorities to care for them as much as possible. If we work in this way, I am sure that there will be a much greater degree of agreement in everything that we are discussing both in this home and in some other homes and that it will not only be a huge elemental disaster and disaster that will bring us together and make us more unique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1411	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Progressive Party, as a state-run, as a national responsible party, as a party that has received a mandate from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to lead this country, eventually this National Assembly in the next four years, will support, i.e. They will vote in favour of the motion for a decision to give prior consent to the proposal of the Statute of Vojvodina, to express myself completely precisely, because today we are not actually discussing the contents of the Statute, this was discussed by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, and today it is only for us to vote in favour or against the decision to give prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the Republic of Vojvodina. If we vote for, the final act in the adoption of a new, with the Constitution of the harmonized Statute of the AP Vojvodina, it will be declared by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. About Vojvodina and the Statute of Vojvodina, better said about the statutes of Vojvodina that were brought from 1991 to today could be said. Given the extremely difficult situation in which, unfortunately, most citizens of Serbia are today due to a cataclysmic elemental disaster that hit us, given the fact that the so-called consensus in the AP Vojvodina Assembly has already been reached, the SNS has decided that a discussion on the proposal for a decision to give prior consent to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina will be deprived of any of the daily political elements. We don't want in any way, for the many reasons we talked about today, to heat up the political atmosphere in Serbia. What we want to point out is this. The Serbian Progressive Party has consistently advocated the rule of law principle. One of the fundamental principles of rule of law is that all state authorities must respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, regardless of what we, as individuals, are lawyers or not, we think, whether we support them intimately or not. So this isn't about our subjective feelings, our subjective emotions, what we think the Constitutional Court should do and what decisions it should make. Today, much has been said about the need to change the Constitution, that the current constitution is not good, that the Constitutional Court's decision is not good. What the SNS points out is that we consider it our constitutional obligation to respect the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court estimated that the Statute adopted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, which had previously been given by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, was not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that the need had arisen within six months for the Statute of the Republic of Serbia to be in line with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, no matter what we think of this Constitution as good or bad and no matter what we think about the political atmosphere in which it has been brought into force since 2006. We will support, or we will vote in favour of a decision to give prior consent to the proposal of the Statute of Vojvodina, because we believe that this proposal of the Statute, which is now before us on the one hand, is the result of the political agreement reached in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, and on the other hand, that the position of the AP Vojvodina, this proposal of the Statute, is being restored to constitutional frameworks. What the SNS resented were the parties involved in the adoption of the previous Statute, and may I remind you, the draft of that Statute was adopted, i.e. written in 2008, and then the draft of the Statute was voted in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, and, as Mr Pastor said, long awaited the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to be finally confirmed by the National Assembly, i.e. given the previous consent to its content. So, what the SNS resents the parties that were then involved in writing and adopting this and such the Statute of the AP Vojvodina is -- why did these parties not try, as we have today managed to reach consensus on the content of that statute? Why did the Statute have to use an old-fashioned expression, to force God to be exactly what individuals in Novi Sad had imagined, without respecting the absolute arguments of the professional public who had already challenged him, the academic public, the experts for constitutional rights that were not members of any political party, who had not heard of any very serious objections to that statute that were coming from the then opposition parties? At the time, it seemed to me that she acted too arrogantly, that she was untouchable, that her authority was higher, that no one could do anything, that the Constitution would not oblige them, even if the constitutionality of the Statute was asked, that the Constitutional Court would have to declare it constitutional, because someone would order someone to do so. So, if there were more wisdom, if there were more political tactics for the adoption of the Law of Vojvodina and in 2008, that is, in 2009, we would not have found ourselves in this situation in May 2014, but we found ourselves, not by the guilt of the SNS. What I want to point out is that without the good political will of the SNS, there would be no statute like this, i.e. A proposal of the Statute that lies before us today. If there were no good political will on such a proposal by the Statute of Vojvodina, it would not be possible to give prior consent. Once again, the SNS comes from the fact that the rule of law applies in Serbia, that the Constitution is in force in Serbia. Someone said it wasn't true that the AP Duke's creation was the Constitution. It is formal-legal because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has since 2006 envisioned and prescribed that two autonomous provinces, AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija, are in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. So, formally-legal AP Vojvodina is a form of a valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it's from a legal point of view. From a historical point of view, from a traditional point of view, he's right, a colleague who's been out for a little while, I don't think there's any reason to be angry, I really have no intention of anyone today, anything bad to say. So, from that traditional and historical point of view, of course, that the idea of the autonomy of Vojvodina was created long before both the Constitution in 2006 and the Constitution since 1990, and since the Constitution of 1974 there have been also words about this so-called. The traditional symbols of the AP Vojvodina and when it was already about history and tradition, here is also that the SNS says a few sentences on the subject. So, the idea of the autonomy of Serbs in southern Hungary was created at a time when the Serbian people lived within the framework of the Austrian Empire, and in 1848, simply because of historical facts, there would be no confusion, if we wanted to stick to history consistently, therefore, and in 1848 there was no Austro-Hungarian monarchy. We like to use the term Austro-Hungarian monarchy very often and for a period when it was not there. So, formally and legally, there was an Austrian empire, consisting of Hungary as well. Some colleagues laugh, but this is really true, Mr. Pastor can confirm. So, Austria was created in 1867 by the famous Austrian settlement, i.e. by a settlement between the court in Vienna and the Hungarian aristocracy in Pest, until then there was only the Austrian Empire. The idea of Serb autonomy was created at a time when Serbs lived in the territory of then-South Hungary, and the idea was created that the Serbian people who came to those premises would save their national, religious and spiritual identity in that large village after the great Austrian-Turkish war. The church, educational, cultural autonomy to Serbs in southern Hungary and before 1848 was guaranteed first by the Austrian emperor that was mentioned today, Leopold I. Later these privileges were given a little bit, a little bit abolished in 1848, and a tumultuous 1848 when the whole of Europe was in flames of various political and social revolutions. A Serbian dukeship has been declared with one silent support, I must say, of the Austrian court. Someone was wondering why the traditional symbols of the AP Vojvodina were mentioned. Why, as traditional symbols of the AP Vojvodina, mention symbols that were in fact symbols of the then-Princess of Serbia, which was not yet a formally independent state, but were formally part of the Ottoman Empire, but enjoyed a high degree of political autonomy. It was very simple, therefore, that the first Duke of the Serbian Duchy was a Serb from Serbia, not a Serb from southern Hungary, Stevan Šupljikac, whom Prince Milos, or Prince Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, sent to southern Hungary to help Serbian volunteers, i.e. Serbian volunteer troops that were then formed, and the Vienna court officially recognised the autonomy that was declared in 1848 in November 1849, under the name of the Duke of Serbia and the Tamiska Banat. But in order to somehow dull that national blade in southern Hungary, he made a decision to be the seat of the Serbian dukeship in the Temisvar, without the Duke being Stevan Šupljikac anymore, but I do not know if you know that dear fellow MPs, therefore the Duke of the Serbian Duchy was the Austrian emperor himself. As for the flag, the traditional flag of the AP Vojvodina and the traditional flag of the Principality of Serbia, it is not true what one of my colleagues said, Prince Milos sent a delegation to the Turkish court and the Turkish emperor asked the Serbian delegation since you already have the political autonomy you want to have. The leader of the Serbian delegation, if I am not mistaken, Avram Petronijevic said -- we want the flag the same as Russia. The Turkish emperor said - you can't, the Russian flag, you have to change something. On the spot, they changed the colour schedule on the flag and we now have this flag, which is the national and national flag of the Republic of Serbia. So, red, blue and white. This flag was created by a game of cases that didn't form a cabinet, no one was designing it, no heraldists were very much involved in what to look like a flag, but simply created it on the spot. It's history and it's for some academic debates. I had simply this need to say so that there would be no doubt about whether the SNS knew or not the history of Vojvodina, the history of Serbs in Vojvodina and the history of other peoples living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. What's much more important than these historical facts are the following things. First, we see nothing controversial about the political consensus being reached in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, where good luck is that this consensus has been reached much earlier and where good luck is given that we as citizens are a little prone to achieving these political consensus and on some other issues. As a nation, as a state, we cannot move forward if we are constantly in the trenches of the past, if we keep reminding each other of some ancient episodes of our past. If we keep blaming each other for something that happened 50, 100, 200 or more years ago. So we need to get out of those trenches. From these trenches, first of all, the Serbs themselves have to come out. In Serbia, it has to stop, it may be a bit of a difficult word, but in a political sense, civil war between Serbs and Serbs, that's one thing. The second thing, it must definitely stop, and I think it has stopped, must stop creating tensions over the fact that Serbs living in Vojvodina are enemies of national minorities, and that they are members of national minorities living in Vojvodina enemies of Serbs. That's not true, and the SNS wants from this place to say that while we're responsible for running the state, that's not how it's gonna be. We, of course, have a purely legal view of legal and linguistic and political, on this proposal of the Statute to make more critical remarks and remarks. You know, when you reach consensus, although this is not a consensus in the literal sense of that word, because consensus means unanimously. The proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina was not unanimously voted in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina but was one convincing majority. What is important is that this consensus was attended by the SNS, which is currently an opposition in the AP Vojvodina Assembly, that the DS participated in this, that the SVM was involved and, of course, we welcome and the fact that other political parties contributed to this achievement of the political agreement, to say that. You know, when you bring in such important acts as the Statute of the Duke's AP, it's impossible to bring it in without a political agreement. In the sense that a political agreement has been reached, I see nothing controversial and the SNS wants us to reach political agreements in Serbia and some other things that we have not yet agreed on. As for the economic development of Vojvodina, which has been said a lot in today's session... (The President. Time. )......................................................................................................... Here, I'm done. Vojvodina's economic development does not exist without Serbia's economic development. Serbia's economic development does not exist unless the economic programme of the Republic of Serbia's government and the economic programme, which Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic explained to us in detail, is consistently not implemented over the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1413	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1414	Respected presidents, the esteemed president, dear colleagues and colleagues, the New Party cannot vote against a decision resulting from the Constitutional Court's decision, but cannot vote in favour of the decision, as it deals with completely ephemeral matters. The problem in Vojvodina and Serbia is not the inconsistency of the Statute of Vojvodina with the poor Constitution of Serbia, but the bad Constitution of Serbia, which we all agree on. In this House, if 250 MPs are sitting one day, they are all from parties and think the current Serbian Constitution is bad and needs to be changed. This was to produce a decision to adopt an act amending the Constitution, and in a previous assembly, where a similar relationship was for and against the current constitution to enter into the resolution and adoption of a new constitution, and then to adopt the new Statute of Vojvodina, which would be a legal reflection of what is needed both Serbia and Vojvodina and its autonomy. For the New Party, it is essential and enforceable to the autonomy of Vojvodina and something that must be achieved and that autonomy should only be limited by the state of Serbia. It's very clear how it can be clearly defined. The Statute of Vojvodina, which states 7%, and some other attributes, which are absolutely no place, in the Statute of neither the local community nor any association of citizens, let alone the AP Vojvodina, I don't think it's on the honor of this home, which will adopt it, which is the Skuština of Vojvodina. Generally, the point is that the 2009 Constitution of Serbia was brought into question in a suspicious procedure, with a suspicious majority in the referendum, that there are many things that do not go into the Constitution, which are a bad solution, either in a procedural sense, or in another sense, where we have a preamble, which according to various interpretations and is a normative part of that Constitution, and it is not, and this is interpreted from day to day, when the current government in these eight years, it corresponds. If this is interpreted as a normative part of the Constitution, then this Assembly has several times broken the Serbian Constitution, voting, for example, on ratification or adoption of the Brussels Agreement, because it is an agreement that Serbia signed with part of its territory, as an international agreement, which is of course impossible. In the Constitution of Serbia, the current area autonomy, related to the percentage, is after Tito in the SFRJ Constitution, we have a percentage in the Constitution of a state, which is the world's exception. We have a decree saying that the state border is indivisible, unique and unchangeable, and is already changing in the next member, by the parliament's decision, that same state border with the undefined majority needed to change Serbia's borders. Therefore, what began in a good way, in strengthening and setting up the right place of Vojvodina autonomy, through the 2002 Omnibus Law, which was to grow into a serious constitutional solution, the 2006 Constitution, did not improve and we now have one process that was initiated by good Omnibus Law, which was interrupted by the Kalambur Constitution, which we are talking about today. Today's debate, the fruit of consensus, the fruit of urgency, after the Constitutional Court's decision, is a general degradation of this Parliament's work. We are dealing with technical matters, and the essential thing, the bad constitution and the poor Statute of Vojvodina, are standing still and therefore I appeal that, of course, we will be abstained, because we cannot vote against the Constitutional Court's decision, and I said why we cannot vote for, but I appeal to the assembly majority, which is very dominant, that as soon as possible, and this means by the end of this session, an act is adopted on the amendment of the Constitution, that the second part of this year is spent in a serious, professional, political and public debate, on the new Constitution, and that this assembly of parliament, that at the beginning of next year, this assembly is ready to adopt one serious Constitution of Serbia, which will be a good basis for the good statute of Vojvodina, for all that Serbia and the Dukes need in the coming period, and to give it as a result of this Parliament's work. If we do that, the elections that were held two months ago will make sense, and if we don't, we'll be another parliament dealing with the trio while the village burns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1415	Since on the lists of parliamentary groups, there are no more registered by word, I ask if anyone who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure, is he asking for a word? None of the MPs. Here you go, proposer's representative, president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, Istvan Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1416	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank you once again for the possibility that we could, with a few introductory sentences, instigate today's debate. I must say, I did it from the position of the President of the Assembly. I did not express my views, as president of the SVM, nor did I express my views as MPs in that assembly, but rather expressed the views that have been raised in the work of an institution called the AP Vojvodina Assembly. There's a difference, but those differences are for another occasion. I mentioned it and it was more than once apostrophe, period of year, month and 15 days, and I didn't do it with the intention of insulting anyone, at least to do it in relation to Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic. I was doing it with the intention of proving that even at that moment when there was no flood like today, and then there was a storm, there was no time. If today the wording is accepted with surprise that the situation is imposed or octroissed and then the situation was after a year, a month and 15 days, decommissioned, because it couldn't hold on anymore. Only then was the atmosphere, and today the Constitutional Court's decision practically imposed the situation, at least by experiencing those who are in a significant majority in the Regional Parliament. What happened in the past months, that's the result of the fruit deal. Even though some people experience this agreement something to be ashamed of, I view it as something that needs to be done by an institution called the Assembly. It's hard to accept that someone is involved in the deal, except in the last 24 hours and 15 minutes, and until then it's part of the deal and then it's transferred. That to me as a man who has spent a significant part of his life in politics, where agreements between parties and people are reached, is very hard to fall. I think we've done a significant job, because it's the Constitutional Court's decision, but also, I don't think it would be a good idea to stop here. You should continue the talks and see, if these are such important issues, such as the question of traditional symbols, and what color is, because I think that if something so significant, at least around the color in this time available should reach an agreement. It's not a minority issue, it's not a minority issue, it's a question within the majority body of political agreements, as is the issue of Vojvodina. That's not a minority question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-20-0.u1417	Thank you. I'm concluding a unique search. Since we have conducted a single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on a proposal for a decision to give prior consent to the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina, According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I determine Tuesday, 20 May 2014, starting at 13.00 hours, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 167 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, gives prior consent to the Statute of the AP of Vojvodina by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to give prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 186 MPs, against – five, abstention – two, six of the 199 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority of the votes of all MPs to give prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Dear Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 90(2) and Article 101(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, which was suspended on 15 May 2014, will continue on Wednesday 21 May 2014, starting at 10.00 p.m., a general search on the 12th item of the agenda, a draft law amending the Traffic Safety Act on Roads. Thank you.
