ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u964	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted to Article 20z, which, of course, changes nothing in the existing provisions in the first two positions, but adds a third position: "For all requests from other creditors created before privatisation, which are not shown in the prospectus when it is advertised with a privatisation entity, the Republic of Serbia is in solidarity". I think this is very clear, especially a decadent provision where the Republic of Serbia must be an absolute guarantee when it comes to data on a privatisation entity. So far, the practice, first of all, I'm thinking about court practice, has shown one complete, total ride. What is stated in the explanation is somewhat insulting to me, as it says – the amendment is not accepted for reasons because the responsibility for the accuracy of the data is contained in the privatisation programme, arranged and sanctioned by the provisions of Articles 22 and 63a of the Privatisation Act. I'm sorry, that's not true, at least not in the way I've predicted that with the new attitude I'm proposing this amendment. Article 22 contains 10 points and none of those 10 points are predicted by anything I have proposed to the above amendment. If you think that the buyers, the companies after the privatisations that have been faced in court practice with a number of difficulties, especially in court proceedings, will continue to be protected by the criminal act provided for by the Privatisation Act, its Article 63a, and that for such a thing, it is enough to protect customers, businesses, prisons from three months to five years, or do not give God’s fine of 800,000 dinars, I fear that everything we have spoken of in the debate will be unthinked in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u965	Do any of the MPs want a word to this amendment? No, thank you. I'm sorry, the minister wants to answer. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u966	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, together with colleagues from the Ministry of Economy, we have carefully considered this amendment. The amendment and how it makes sense and it will be seriously considered to include the responsibility of the state in the new privatisation law, which will be in front of you in the next, hopefully, month or month and a half days. So, it doesn't fit the concept of what is a change of Article 20z, but it certainly makes sense and I thank my colleague Olga Batic for that. A new privatisation law will discuss the possibility of including the country's responsibility for the accuracy of the data provided on the privatisation entity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u967	Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u968	Thank you. We have already given our argument for the amendment and it has, of course, been rejected by the promoter. I just want to remind you that on Saturday, we've heard a lot of sad stories about the fate of the Serbian economy, which, of course, are true. Serbia's economy is in big trouble. No one is accusing the current government of this, at least not of what happened from 2000 to today. Of course, there is the responsibility of some of the current authorities for what happened in the 1990s, when Serbia's economy was essentially destroyed, for many reasons. It was also estimated that only 12 privatisations were successful from 2001 to today, which is completely pointless and it is a lie that someone has told. Because if you go to the Privatisation Agency, the state authority, then you can see clearly that from 2001 to 2011, they estimated over 1,500 privatisations as successful privatisations. Serbia's economy has collapsed due to sanctions stemming from a poor policy led in the 1990s. The Serbian economy has also failed because the Berlin Wall fell. Some politicians understood that some months ago, and they boasted of it, where traditional Serbian markets, i.e. then Yugoslav markets, disappeared, the Soviet Union, were unclassified, and so did the former Yugoslavia. Those are the basic reasons. The 1990s economy devastation was high and it is true that there were criminal privatisations under current law after 2001. There were no 24 of them, but I estimate there were over 250 of them, but that's not the subject of this law. It is a topic for the competent authorities to investigate these privatisations, to punish those responsible for it before the courts. This gives complete delusion to both trustees and workers who work in these enterprises in restructuring that something important will change and will not. Finally, they wouldn't have lost their job on March 15th if this unconstitutional law hadn't been passed, because bankruptcy begins and the layoff of workers begins... (President: you've exceeded your time. )......................................................................................................... when the company's account is blocked for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u969	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u970	The Honorable Chairman, MPs, in fact this amendment cannot be accepted. Mr. Zivkovic tried as much of that amendment as he could to ease it. In fact, they proposed that on May 14, all businesses simply disband themselves and go bankrupt for reasons of respecting the Constitution. However, in the debate, you have seen in principle that this amendment, more specifically by this amendment and by supplementing the law, does not violate the Constitution, which means that the SNS primarily wants to commit itself seriously to solving this problem. Something that lasted 10 years, we don't want to cut or break three or four days over our knees, but we want to approach this problem in one responsible way. For this reason, both in the application of the new law and in the creation itself, people who are professional and in bodies who will decide how to find strategic partnerships for these companies will participate. On the other hand, you have made a proposal that in three days these companies go into bankruptcy, but Mr Pavicevic wrote the amendment, not you, but you did not know that you were the best way to transfer it, which means you don't care about 53,000 families in Serbia, that you don't care as a MP what happens after 14 May and that's one irresponsible policy. Given the number of votes you have taken, we are aware that you are not actually responsible and have the power to decide and adopt anything, but the SNS with the support of Serbian citizens wants to act in one responsible way and treat this problem. So we'll succeed in the next five months to offer solutions to everything others haven't had solutions in the past 10 or 15 years. For this reason, I would like to point out once again that both the Minister of Justice and the MPs in the debate have expressed their views and beliefs that say that the Constitution has not been violated in any way. For this reason, give some constructive solution and a proposal on how to find strategic partners, how people don't lose their jobs, except that you're only dealing with political theory, since you have a lecturer on the subject next to you, but we're not students, we're people who want to deal with this problem seriously and solve this crucial problem for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u971	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u972	Is there some regulation that defines that there are two kinds of MPs in this House or are we equal? I won't listen anymore. Please protect me, so I don't have to protect myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u973	Please, you've got a line, and the breach of the Rules of Procedure is something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u974	The young MP said we don't have the power to decide, that we don't have the right to say anything. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The line - it's completely false, March 15th, no one would be fired. Somebody advise you, you're a young man, you can learn more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u975	Don't, please, make a difference between senior and younger MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u976	That's a compliment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u977	Please don't, I don't allow you to make differences between women and men, older and younger, or by other differences.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u978	I'm sorry. I think the difference is obvious. What was the government doing for a year and a half, if we were MPs who were first in parliament or for the first time after 10 years irresponsible to those 50,000 workers? What did you do for a year and a half under that same law? Why didn't you change that law a year and a half ago? Why didn't you find strategic partners in a year and a half? Because it's impossible. I know that and I'm not accusing you of that, but I ask you to use what the facts are in my debate, I repeat. The campaign is over, you won, and I congratulate you on it, but it is also a commitment to the ruling majority, not just a reason to brag about how strong you are. The support of the citizens was evident, there is no doubt about it. Restructure companies have been half-dead or dead long ago, and you have missed a year and a half to tell Serbian citizens the truth, that there is nothing out of the largest number of these companies. The five-month delay increases debts, increases interest rates.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u979	Time, MP. Two minutes for the replica is up. Thank you. (Alexander Jovičić: Replica. You're not mentioned. I would ask all MPs to pay attention not to address each other, according to the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u980	Thank you. Of course, according to the amendment, I'm always an honorer of the Rules of Procedure. So, first of all, I think the discussion has led to the wrong amendment. I think this is Article 1 that says – for entities privatised by a public tender method, i.e. public auctions, state creditors may request a mandatory payment and any measure of enforcement to settle the claims made by 31 December 2007. If I read it correctly, it's probably about this amendment. I'm not sure that's what this is about. I can agree that the Serbian economy has been devastated, of course, in the 1990s, but especially since the 1990s, and that it has simply been converted into a vehicle that has neither engine nor gearbox. So, right now, the economy is spending more than it delivers money and we're almost in a dead end. I can agree with that, and any self - criticism comes to my attention. As far as this amendment is concerned, I'd be willing to accept it, but this is about what the state needs to do for forced payment... Thank you. [[Disabled microphone.]] I was famous in the 1990s for losing a ton whenever I answered my word. So this isn't a surprise, it was, uh, respected viewers and you who later joined the program. I agree with the fact that the state has provided trustees with the forced payment of claims they have towards the state, but I would also like the state, especially in companies privatised by the public tendering and auctioning method from 2000 until 2010, to settle some of its claims. I would like the privatisation procedures to be audited and everything the state has received from its customers, to return the state to its customers, and to return the state's assets that they acquired in this way. I'd like to see three sugars return to the country for three euros. So, to go back in the same way that they were privatized, and I would like this amendment to contain, say, the Central Committee building with all those crying, etc. and that aluminum that was sold and whose value was far greater than five million euros at the time. I'd like the Central Committee building to return to the state at the same price and, of course, that salary that was around that building and that contract to be void, given that one contract was with the attorney, and the other was signed by the customers. I'd like sugar buyers to return sugar to the state, and the state will pay them back nine euros. I would also like the Central Committee building to return to the state by fivem euros, given that a very criminal manner has been alienated from the state. In Serbia, of course, there is a very difficult situation. Hunger's all over the place. We could easily feed the poor and hungry, but I'm afraid we won't be able to feed the rich. They were never enough, as can be seen from the amendment. I mean, if the poor shouldn't be ashamed of their poverty, these rich people should be ashamed of their wealth. I would also like to return to the Jaksic family in Krcedin 52 hectares on which the disputed vineyard was planted, which was only taken because, behold, the peasant was a cult and had 52 hectares and a contract with the people, we were obliged to reprivatize which, of course, was never carried out. Someone was severely punished, and his property was taken away so that someone would get that property and still get 525,000 euros in subsidies from the state. It is simply unacceptable for me that this evil that happened by 2010 should not be punished because one who does not punish evil, Mr. Minister, just so you know the old proverb says that one who does not punish evil does evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u981	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u982	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I wanted to use the replica. First of all, I would like to focus the contents of this replica on what Mr. Jovičić was talking about and one part on what is now Mr. Risticevic. I think it's very good that we continue to discuss the content of this bill, although many MPs may seem technical. I don't think it's technical. Two things are very important here, based on which we measure this law. One thing is, and it is good to talk this morning, whether this proposal of the Law on Privatisation, its amendments, whether we are destroying the rule of law and disrupting the Serbian Constitution, and another thing we measure, through every bill sent by the Serbian government, we are also measuring the reform course of the Serbian government. If we find that the bill, which comes from the Serbian government, violates the Constitution and the constitutional system of Serbia, then it means that there is no reform course here, but a course that is contrary to that, so anti-reform. Mr. Jovicic, the Honorable President, said that on Saturday, when we spoke, we made sure that this law did not violate the Constitution. No, on the contrary. I think it was a very clear argument that this proposal for a law committed a drastic violation of the Constitution and the rule of law in Serbia. The two of us, respected presidents, wrote these amendments together, and this amendment to Article 1 and we wondered if the Serbian government had any responsibility and whether it could go before Serbian citizens to say that it was responsible for the six-month period the Constitutional Court gave it, the Serbian government failed to resolve the problem. Now, for example, Mr. Jovicic says – we are not responsible. No, we're responsible, because we're returning the government to that reform course. The government was irresponsible because she hasn't used six months to solve this problem. In the end, if I could just say one sentence. It is mentioned here that we are very theoretical, that I am a professor and that we must now separate theory and practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u983	Your time is up. Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic, then the replicas. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u984	I thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for reporting as an authorised representative of the proposing, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who was called to conduct an open anti-reform course in the presentation of the predecessors. I don't know why anyone can appreciate this government running an anti-reform course. The third-week government in its mandate is, as outlined in the exposé of the Prime Minister, a government that also holds a reform course and for the first time represents a systematic solution to many difficult, painful and unresolved problems in a long series of previous years. She can't have a government that's three weeks in office, and in office, being called for something she hasn't done in the past six months. You may like it or not like it, this is the new Government of the Republic of Serbia. If the old lady had the full capacity to solve this, she'd probably solve it. The other thing is, I don't know why so impatiently. After three weeks, you no longer have the patience to wait for a whole package of reform laws to come to the Assembly. I think it's been made clear a few times. We did exchange arguments on Saturday. Whether something is constitutional or not, they will appreciate the Constitutional Court, and the power of our arguments will be appreciated by the MPs. Whoever claims that this bill violates the Constitution, whoever claims this is a bad solution, convince the majority, and I am absolutely convinced that most will vote for your proposal if he finds that this power of argument is stronger. And as for once again, the flat-rate qualifications of the "antireform course of government", I don't know what it can appreciate. I really don't know what someone can appreciate. The basic rule in parliamentaryism is to give the government a deadline of a hundred days. We said at the beginning of this government's mandate that we wouldn't stick to it. Please, if you appreciate one item on the agenda, reform or anti-reform course of the government, then I fully understand the party's name and as you yourself said in parliament you are new. You can't appreciate, I'm saying this for one reason, courtesy, based on one item of the agenda. It is technical law and it is technical because it creates a prerequisite for the adoption of reform laws. Someone can believe that, that they don't believe, I think that, as a member of the government, I think this reason is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u985	The word is Aleksandar Jovicic, a replica of Ambassador Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u986	Mr Pavicevic, it is not possible to build a political career through ordinary workers in Serbia. We heard earlier that your colleague said that the young gentleman was telling the truth, that on March 15th, people would be out of work. He's right, because I didn't say it, I said it on May 15th. Which means your colleague doesn't even know when the legal frameworks of that constitutional order, as you claim, will expire. On the other hand, we heard earlier that your colleague said that everything was 12 privatisations. That's not true, there were 28 successful privatisations. It is necessary to read something before the session itself, given that you write, and someone else is saying, so that we can get in quality in this debate. But I repeat again, according to your votes you do not bear responsibility if your proposal passes in three days 53,000 families remain on the street. However, the SNS has gained citizens' trust. The Serbian Progressive Party wants to show seriousness, consistency and with the most professional people in this country who are not only made up of politicians, because we have seen that politics has led us in the past 15 years when the party feuds took over public enterprises, when they led them, to find solutions for professionalization and people to help us find solutions to what is healthy from these 167 businesses, to find them strategic partners. That is why I think you should withdraw that proposal and give Serbia a chance to do what many have not done in five months. You said what was done? If we're talking about Serbia, it's done a lot. First of all, Serbia's position in the world has been improved, on the one hand, if we talk about extrovertity, but what is important to Serbia, which is that FAP, JAT and Icarbus today have sound business bases, and many have not dealt with it, and we have seen through a general search... (President: Time. I'm done. ... that they bought foreign buses, gave 65m euros to foreign producers, destroyed Serbia's economy. We're not gonna act like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u987	Otherwise, when time is over, it will be taken away from the MP's group's time, so as not to argue with MPs all the time. I'm not thinking about you, I'm thinking about you in general. The word has Alexander Martinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u988	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Pavicevic are deeply wrong and on a number of grounds. First, from the point of view of the Serbian Progressive Party, the amendment is unacceptable because it completely violates the concept of the bill submitted by the government. So, if Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Pavicevic were to adopt the amendment, all the enterprises in the restructuring process, and there are 162, i.e. some 164, would find themselves in an extremely big problem. The problem is called a forced payment of claims, which would practically mean that the same day, all these companies would be blocked. This would mean that within a few days, it is very likely that in all these companies production would stop and that we would have an extremely large problem in the country, given the fact that a number of these enterprises in restructuring are carrying out a work that is of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia and for its citizens. We've talked about this before. You can't convince me that companies like Galenika, such as RTB Bor, etc., can have the same status as trade shops, like bakerys, etc. It's an extremely big problem. The problem cannot be solved by you putting all these companies in restructuring on 14 May by state creditors. As regards the state-owned creditors themselves, it is thought, of course, primarily of claims that, according to restructured companies, they have either certain public enterprises or individual companies with majority state capital. I think the minister will agree with me. There is a number of public enterprises and a number of companies with majority government capital that are entrusted to restructure companies, which themselves require a single fundamental reorganisation. So before they collect their claims from these enterprises in restructuring it would be good to see what it is that within these public enterprises, that is, companies can do better to do better business. It is also an important problem that seems to me to escape the text and the essence of your amendment. As for what Mr. Zivkovic said, it seems that, Mr. Zivkovic, you did not understand me well on Saturday, when we talked about what privatisations were successful, which were not successful and how many successful privatisations there were. I told you, according to the Privatisation Agency, the condition for successful privatisations is 28. When I say conditionally successful, it means that these are privatisations that have led to companies that have been purchased, that is, where a contract on the sale of social capital has been concluded, they are working, that they have continued their primary activity and that workers in these companies receive salaries. This is the basic criterion of whether privatisation was successful. You were talking about something else entirely. You were talking about 1,583 companies where no privatisation contract was broken. Don't think that in all those cases where there was no termination of the privatisation contract, all privatisations were successful. Unfortunately, they didn't. I'm speaking from the point of view of economic success. So not all companies, which are privatised, were successfully privatized only because the privatisation was not broken. The data on that is very simple. So, the number that you've given you is that you're the total of privatized enterprises, and there are 2.266 of them, you subtracted from that number the number of terminations of the privatisation contracts on the sale of social capital and that's 683 and then you get the number of 1,583 companies. According to your logic, all the companies where the privatisation wasn't broken were successful privatisations. No, they're not. Should I point out to you the case of Krusik Accumulators Valjevo and hundreds of other enterprises where no privatisation contract has been broken, where workers do not work, where workers do not receive salaries and where privatisation contracts, to be perfectly honest, are not broken up not because there was no real basis, but because there was a lot of crime within the Privatisation Agency itself over the past ten and over years? This is a particular problem that will be tackled, I hope, by the competent state authorities, as according to the new Privatisation Act, little will be explored within the Privatisation Agency itself. What I also want to emphasise about Mr Pavicevic's position, he is very eager to defend his opinion that the bill submitted by the government is unconstitutional. We have proven in many ways that this is not true, or that the bill is constitutional. Mr. Pavicevic, I don't think you really understand the Constitutional Court's decision. Thus, the Constitutional Court did not oblige the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly, to find a problem for restructured enterprises within six months, but to make legal norms of the Constitutional Court decisions. We, by this proposal of the Government, by the law that we are about to pass today, are doing so. We leave the government a five-month deadline, which is very difficult, a solution for all 164 enterprises that are in restructuring. Of course, from the point of view of you who are in opposition, and who you once had the responsibility to run this country, I don't only think about you personally, far from it, loving both DS and others, you know, it's very easy to ask questions that are very difficult to give quick and simple solutions, i.e. fast and simple answers. If it were easy to find a solution for 164 enterprises in restructuring, trust me that this solution would have been found not only by this government or the previous one, but also by some governments that were both in 2007 and 2008 etc. One more thing I want to say to the applicants of this amendment. From the point of view of constitutional law, here, let's just stay on the ground of law, you know, this whole problem isn't as simple as it looks to you right now. You mention the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was made on 14 November 2013. I have a statement in front of me from the 34th session of the Constitutional Court, chaired by Dragisa Slepcevic, the President of the Constitutional Court. A total of eight cases were discussed at that 34th session, including the constitutionality of this famous member, Article 20z, paragraph 1. The Privatization Act. However, for your information, for information to other MPs and for information to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how complex this problem is from the point of view of constitutional law. I would like to draw your attention to a position which has been expressed in the case of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. The code is IUAZ-98/2009. The Constitutional Court did not address the company's restructuring problem only in November last year. He was in 2009 too. Don't let me read it all to you. The position set out in this 2009 case is said, among other things, that the restructuring decision, which also refers to Article 20z of the Privatisation Act, does not prejudice the rights of the holders of executive documents to seek the subject of privatisation, nor does the aim of this measure restricting the right of creditors, but the existence and exercise of these rights relate to the achievement of the general interest expressed through the privatisation of these entities. This only temporarily suspends the possibility of forced enforcement, but does not affect the property rights of individuals established by a judicial decision. It is said that such a restriction of property rights is defined by law, established by the general interest of turning social property into private property. As you can see, there are two constitutional court positions related to restructuring. It seems to me that you forgot about this position that was issued in 2009, that the restructuring measure does not restrict trustees' rights, but that they are only suspended temporarily, but not because it is someone's whim, but because it is a general interest. I think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, proposing this law, has led exclusively to protect the general interest, because it is in general interest that 14 May, or 15 May, all 164 enterprises in restructuring, some of which carry out actions which are of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia do not collapse, and I think that this was the government's intensity, did not intend to permanently restrict the rights and state and other creditors to privatisation entities that are in the restructuring process, but rather to suspend those rights only temporarily, and the deadlines for temporary suspension of forced collection, i.e. forced enforcement were defined by the draft law amending the Privatisation Act. From the point of view of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is nothing disputed. The bill of law that the government has submitted to us is in the general interest. For the sake of general interest, we need to adopt this bill today. We will support the government, we will do everything, at least we from the SNS, and I hope you from the opposition, if you are truly committed to the achievement of general interest, to find a final and definitely sustainable solution for the enterprises in the restructuring process. The easiest thing to say now is, what have you done in the last six months to find a solution? Solutions for some companies are almost found, some will be found. Some companies may not find solutions, because it is impossible, but it seems to me that you have a rather comfortable position, that you are sitting in opposition, that you are not responsible now, but you are ten, 15 years ago, and that you were responsible for the situation in which the state is today and you say, excuse me, gentlemen of the government, what have you done for the last six months to find a solution to the company's restructuring problem? The government has done much and in the next five months it is certain that it will do even more, but the problem is to this extent deep, to this extent structural, that there are no fast and simple solutions, because if there were, we would not talk about this topic today. We'd probably be talking about some other law. From the point of view of the SNS parliamentary group, the argument given by the government of the Republic of Serbia why it does not accept this amendment has absolutely a basis. I think the amendment is absolutely deviating from the concept of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u989	Just one explanation. There's no need to sign up 10 times. The system only receives five logins, so deletes you automatically. I'll read you how many MPs will now report. Only new MPs can apply afterwards. That's probably an explanation for the new MPs. I suppose Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic is looking for a replica, otherwise you have no right to the amendment, Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment, Vladimir Djukanovic, as well. If there are any MPs after that, sign in. Don't be confused about your microphones shutting down. We've previously taken an oath from the MP. The honourable MPs, given that MP Mr Dejan Radenkovic did not take an oath at the meeting of the National Assembly on 10 May 2014, need to do so now. In line with that, please yes, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Let me wish MP Dejan Radenkovic successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. We're moving on to the list of MPs. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Vladimir Pavicevic has the right to reply. You are not a parliamentary group, and Vladimir Pavicevic is mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u990	I clicked a few times, but the president said - don't sign up again. I didn't sign up again now and the president says - sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u991	Technically, to get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u992	All right. I have four things I would like to announce here in relation to the entire course of this debate on our amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. Mr. Selakovic, when he performed here this morning, I understood that he was actually asking of us the MPs of this National Assembly on behalf of the Serbian Government...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u993	You have a replica of the presentation of fellow Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u994	It also concerns colleagues of Martinovic, since it is connected, that we trust his word. We can't, if we want to work well in this National Assembly, for people who act on behalf of the government to believe in a word and rely on it alone. We have to have some measurable criteria for something. Here we have the opportunity to judge the government's direction in terms of reform based on the bill that came here. We believe that this bill, and I understand that it was very clear in the debate on Saturday, violates the rule of law and violates the Constitution. The National Assembly must not allow that. The other thing is, we're said to be impatient. I don't think we can show patience compared to basic concepts, basic principles. The assumption of reform is the foundation and respect of the rule of law. If the rule of law is violated, no MP should, I mean, be patient about violating the rule of law. I agree with Mr. Martinovic that we have a big problem, but I argue that on behalf of the government someone should have come here today and Saturday and said - we are responsible for not preparing a solution in six months. In the end, with this amendment, the two of us wanted to protect the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the direction towards the common good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u995	The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that opposition colleagues want to make a contribution to the work of the National Assembly, but first I have to inform all fellow MPs, especially those new ones, and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that there is a congregation working body that decides whether any draft law is in accordance with the Constitution or not and whether it is in accordance with the legal system or not. If he decides that the draft law is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, the session of the Serbian Parliament continues on the basis of the bill and only the Constitutional Court can challenge the law declared by the National Assembly, that is, adopt. Please make the decision of the Constitutional Court fellow Members of the People's Parliament a little patient and take quality part in the work of the National Assembly. What is the problem with enterprises that are in restructuring and what are these companies? We have two kinds of companies here. The first part, companies where privatisation was never tried or tried, and the second part of the company where privatisation, or privatisation contract, was broken. The contracts were concluded on the basis of laws passed by various governments, and all of these laws had one common high shortfall, which is that those who at least have little understanding in accounting and finance, that the initial price of social capital, which goes into privatisation, is 20% not of the market value, but of the book value of the subject matter of privatisation. This means that 99.99% of the book value is at least ten times lower than the market value. So at ten times the market price was 20%. This means at least 50 times less than the market value of the subject matter of privatisation. We had a situation that someone had come up with huge assets for small money, and it wasn't in his interest, because he bought it cheaply, to maintain that property, to hire the people who worked in the company, to continue the company's activity, but to cut off the property and make a huge profit. It was not the one who did it, but it was the assembly that passed such laws and the government that proposed such laws. That is why fellow Members of Parliament can be sure that in this assembly at the most recent time such foolish provisions of the Privatisation Act must be amended. That's why I trust this government with my word when it comes to this. What happened to the subjects where the privatisation started, and it didn't work or never went into privatisation? They're gone. The management of these companies was most often set up by a state, or government, or a competent minister, or a congregation, appointed by the executive authority. Now explain one thing to me. How is it that these companies, which are in restructuring and 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, were unable to work and show profits in 2012, and now that the crisis is much larger, but in 2008 or 2009, if they do not already show profits, have stopped making losses, most of them, it is again the responsibility of those who led the Republic of Serbia at that time. What is the purpose of this law? The aim of this law is that these companies, which are worth saving, are worth saving those workers, and the number of these workers is not small, but is very large, not to talk about the benefit of the state from restructuring these companies, are downgraded to the economic laws they are going to operate on, but not as losers, not as failed cases to go to privatisation, but as a healthy part of the economy, but as the one who buys it to pay as much as it costs, and because it will pay what it costs, it will have to cultivate, not to unload property and release workers and ruin all of us together. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the biggest problem was the Privatisation Act, I repeat, which meant that capital going into privatisation would be charged on the basis of book value, which is ten and more times lower than market value, and that one fifth of that book value would be the starting price. So now we have 400,000 more unemployed, which is why we have a downturn in economic activity, because they didn't want to work, but to sell out property, even as old iron, because they sold out for more money than they bought. So surely in the voting day, we're going to give the government a chance to solve at least those companies where possible, give them a chance, give them time to correct this law as far as possible all the irregularities that have been in the past nine years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u997	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u998	Mr. Arsic has just said the essence of the company's accounting value, and that's true. The right to tell you, by reading this amendment, I can only say the following. If normal circumstances were, and they weren't, this kind of bill would probably never have come to the Assembly. When I spoke in the debate in principle, I said that this was something that was extorted to save the head, that is, the existence of those people who work in these companies. Otherwise, I'm not a fan of continuing to pour money into something that doesn't work, but you have to take care of life and people. This amendment is definitely the funeral of these companies and people would find themselves on the street and that's what the public needs to know. I have to admit, or I cannot understand that today someone is calling for constitutionality, because the Law on Privatisation, which was passed in 2001, was deeply in violation of the Constitution at the time, although in principle I said that I was not a supporter of social property, but it was then defined by the Constitution, and someone passed the Privatisation Act, which completely denied that social property and thus did not even blink and broke the Constitution. You could never complain anywhere because the Constitutional Court had no longer worked for a long time, and we didn't even have a Constitutional Court. Today someone's telling us about breaking the Constitution, so it's a little hypocritical. If you've had a period in a country where you couldn't protect basic human rights because there was no Constitutional Court, it's not a big deal to complain about. I have to admit, I'm not optimistic that in these five months we'll be able to find a solution, but this is simply an attempt to save these people from existence. There'll probably be companies where it won't work, but from the people who criticize it and what kind of amendment they're proposing, I'd like them to tell us what the alternative is, if we want people on the streets, if we want 55,000 people on the streets. In this economic chaos that currently exists in the country because we are paying for such privatisations and such a bitter kidnapping of state property, which otherwise existed, today we are forced to bring something like this and no one is happy that we bring this. I believe that neither Mr. Selakovic himself as the minister who defends this is happy that he has to defend this because the situation in the country is what it is. I'm sorry, we had a state, and unfortunately it's such a state, that we didn't have a basic list of what we're paying for. We didn't know how many people work in the public sector until this year. There's a list being made somewhere. I don't think it's over. Now we've learned that we have 800,000 people in the public sector. It's all the tribute of such a disastrous policy. Unfortunately, the SNS was forced to solve something that was neither guilty nor debtor, and she liked it. It's simple, the people chose it that way, and we have to sort this out somehow. If anyone thinks it's wise to meet 55,000 people on the street, it's an honor. I don't think that's a good thing, and that's why we're going to support this law, and we can't support this amendment because we want to save people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u999	The word has been made by MP Milisav Petronijevic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1000	Dear President, dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, if you'll allow, an amendment to say a few words. I think when it comes to amendments, it's an opportunity to cross-reference arguments about proposals for concrete solutions in a concrete way. I'm not gonna say what we talked about on Saturday in principle. I'm not going to talk about the past who's what and how and how much he contributed to this. The fact is that the company's restructuring problem faced all governments from 2000 to today. The fact is, they all looked at it a little bit like hot potatoes that were hard to solve didn't solve. I don't want to talk about it. I don't want to talk about it. I don't want to talk about it. He who is the Supreme Judge in Serbia, which are citizens, each time gives his court in each of the elections and we respect it. What I'm trying to say is, not to look at questions about who is, what and how, because Serbia is tired of these investigations, Serbia is facing a concrete problem today and is looking for a solution from this government and it is this government that is obliged to offer that solution. For the sake of Serbian citizens, what is this famous 20z member? Article 20z entered the legal system in December 2007. It explicitly prohibits forced collection from enterprises involved in restructuring. In 2012, he was only armed as a restructuring by June 2014. The ban on forced collection of enterprises in restructuring was then introduced. Of course that's the problem. As much of the company's problem with restructuring, given that there are a large number of companies, yesterday we heard 164, that many of them are significant for certain regions in Serbia, that many of them were developmentists in these regions, that they employ over 50,000 workers, that there are companies among them that are not themselves, often so qualified, consumers, possible developmentists and should be observed in this way. That's one problem. This is a problem of general interest to this country that the government has observed in this way. The other problem is undeniable – that creditors cannot collect their claims from such companies and they are brought to a great deal of trouble, some of them even have to disappear because of it. So, the government has found itself in a concrete situation, in a particular problem of how to find some balance between these two problems, how to resolve them in a way that gives these companies a chance to restructure for the next five months with what can be preserved, while at the same time establishing some dynamics that creditors can make their claims, how to file them, how to record it, because there is still no accurate data, determines the amount, make up a programme, etc. What is characteristic of this law is that the Government in the Bill's proposal, when it comes to that member, has left that provision that was so far, which is that state creditors cannot ask for forced payment or any measure to be carried out in order to settle the claims made until 31 December 2007, to settle when sold. The essence of this amendment, which I propose, is that the proposings demand that this is not valid, i.e. that all of them may request a mandatory payment and any measure of the procedure for the execution of the claims made by 31 December 2007. So, quite contrary to the proposal of this law that the government gave. When we all express our opinion on the amendment, we will specifically support the government's proposal and position, we will not support the amendment's proposal, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that when we talk about amendments and when someone agrees and someone disagrees, that is not the basis for replication. Each of us has the right to agree or disagree. Everyone has the right to state their position. Otherwise, they would cause great chaos in this congregation if everyone had the opposite opinion after someone’s discussion and immediately opened a whole series of replicas. Why do I think this amendment is not necessary? I think Mr. Secretary could or at least had a chance to explain now if it had anything to do with it? I think so. Let's remember December 2007. The amendment to the Privatization Act at the time...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1001	Ambassador, please return to your amendment. We're not reopening the general debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1002	I'm just talking about why the amendment can't be adopted. It's been mentioned in December 2007. And I say, the President-in-Office, that in December 2007, when amending the Privatisation Act, the Law ordered the state commissioners to fire the debt and ask – does that matter, is that the reason? Because then state creditors were obliged to write off the debt to the enterprises that are in restructuring and to use that date, that term. Because the concrete formulation is so and is directly related to the amendment, that they are obliged to release the debt to the privatization entity in general and to settle their claim on funds from the sale of the privatisation entity. Does this have anything to do with this? I think there's also a reason to use that term. But in order not to irritate the chairman, so as not to further, we will not accept the amendment. We'll support the government's proposal and I think this is an opportunity for the minister to explain what I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1003	No more reported under this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. (National Ambassador Zoran Babic, from the post: Can I do the amendment? There was no one in the system. Please come in. Zoran Babic is the first in the system now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1004	Thank you, Madam President. For SNS, as colleagues have elaborated, this amendment is not acceptable because it devises and amputates the very purpose and point of the law. But I will try to speak in a normal language, a language that will understand 57, 58 thousand people who work in restructure companies, but also in other companies and companies in Serbia. What does the concept offer if we look at the abstractly that this amendment would be accepted and incorporated into the law itself? What would that mean for firms in restructuring, what would that mean for the state of Serbia? All 164 firms in restructuring would go into bankruptcy within the next few days. Under this bankruptcy law, which is still valid, and I hope it will not be valid in two or three weeks when this National Assembly adopts a new bankruptcy law that will limit the deadlines for each step in the bankruptcy process, under the current bankruptcy law, this procedure lasts for two to three years. Will the firm's trust in restructuring in that time be charged? Will it come to its own resources? He won't. Even when the process of bankruptcy with time limits is over and when will it come? What do we get from the other side? Anarchy. People on the street, people without a job. An additional army of people over the 400,000 people who have lost their jobs during the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic since 2008-2012, we get another army of people where we turn our heads to the other side. If we have seen from the Expoze of Prime Minister Vukic that our state, firms in restructuring, when we add to them "The Iron in Smederev", Simpo, we see that the cost of our state's restructuring firms is $750m. Don't you think the easiest way to turn your head is the other way around? It's none of our business. We'll accept this amendment, it's none of our business what happens to people, it's none of our business how long the proceedings and the bankruptcy process lasts, it's none of our business when and how much they'll be charged. Is that the way our society should go? I think that's the way of irresponsibility. I think that's the way of anarchy. I think that's the way to put your head in the sand. In this way, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS sends a clear message, not only to the people who work in these companies, but to the other citizens of Serbia – yes, we are interested in your destiny although we are not directly responsible for the situation in which these companies have found themselves. We're not responsible for the condition they had to go into restructuring. But we want to help you. We want to take clear steps in the next 30, so 90, so 30 more days, you know what responsibilities, what jobs have to do and trust and the Privatisation Agency. That way we get one orderly, as much orderly as the system. He is right, Mr Selakovic, who said this is a technical law, not a political, technical law, which we will at least know after 150 days which companies are, with which number of employees, with which creditors. Why in advance to give up the idea that some creditors would have a payment plan offered by the Privatisation Agency after 150 days not to be accepted. Maybe he will. We are also proud to talk about the "FAP" which was unfortunately a bottomless hole, in which, as colleagues said, there was not even a trailer once a year, let alone a truck. We are proud to talk about "Icarbus", although many wanted to dissuade, I guess from some political arrogance, the sign "Mercedes" that Prime Minister Vucic put on the first bus was clouded by some political hatred. Instead of pride, instead of a high head, some of them, out of hatred for their country, have, unfortunately, tried to reason with it. Some turn their heads on the other side and, when it comes to Air Serbia, although I spoke very explicitly about the business results AIR Serbia showed in the first quarter of this year. Again, out of some hatred for its citizens, it doesn't answer to anyone's country. Maybe it was a better concept when that same JAT swallowed 55m euros annually. These are the differences between SNS policies, Prime Minister Vukic, these governments, the policies of responsibility, the policy of solving problems, the policy of genuine relations with all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. At no time have we promised, we did not say – yes, all 164 companies will be resolved, but those who have the potential, who have this managerial spirit and the desire for the privatisation process to end within reasonable deadlines and in a transparent way will have a chance in the competition. There is a huge difference between the concept of transferring responsibility to someone else, putting the head into the sand, irresponsibility and the desire not to take on the burden of solving the problems of companies in restructuring and this concept of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, which in the next 150 days gives us a chance for 164 firms, we give the chance for 58 000 people working in these companies, we give at least one area in our society to be arranged. That's why this SNS amendment is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1005	According to the Rules of Procedure, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1006	Madam President of the Assembly, Articles 106 and 107. I don't think you've responded in two situations. The previous speaker has completely strayed from the agenda and very broadly. Article 107 because several times, it seems to me three times, citing concrete examples of unclear contractual relations that this regime is conducting in Serbia, said that someone who questions this country hates and hates this people. So, if you are reviewing contracts that are not transparent, if you say that this government is late in everything that it announced, if you say that despite Mr. Vukic's promise, the contract has not been put into perspective, if you say that the Mercedes sign has been glued to the Icarbus bus, and not that bus has been produced, you hate this people and this country. You don't have to react, I hope you agree and that such things are too strong to be said that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1007	You'll get an explanation. I listened very carefully because of these shades. As for Article 106, I called on Parliamentarian Babic to speak specifically about the amendment and he did so and said that the parliamentary group would not vote for this amendment and presented its reasons. So, I don't want to be a censor, there were speech censors in the past. I'm trying not to. I don't think there's a injured member of 106 in any way. As for Article 107, I carefully expected him to say who people, persons, groups that hate the state or the people, he had skillfully avoided it. So there was no explicit name or political party, and I did not violate the Rules of Procedure. I would really interrupt it and ask that such qualifications are not used. Do you want to vote on it? Thank you. The word has been made by MP Mirko Chikiriz, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1008	Thank you very much, President. Just one thing to be clear, I asked for a word once, then another time. You said I wasn't applying anymore, and then you moved on to the second amendment. I'd like to ask you to keep a more accurate record.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1009	An explanation. I run it precisely, but I'm not a machine, I'm just reading the way it comes out here on the screen. Here, you have a word, you're wasting your time already.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1010	The amendment points to claims made by state creditors before 2007 that are not mentioned anywhere in the law itself. He points to a part of the problem that needs to be solved with the new privatisation law, because there is absolutely no awareness that something that has been made as a temporary solution, it seems to me, to a large extent, broken over the knee and, behold, it takes seven years, which is absolutely inadmissible and does not contribute to legal certainty. However, what the minister himself said, and we are absolutely aware of the problems he encountered in this area as well as this government, so we will behave in a similar way as we did last time. Last time we were an opposition MP's club, but it seems very constructive. If we've criticised something, we've made decisions, and that's how we're going to perform now that we're part of the ruling coalition. Ms. Olgica Batic, in the amendment, spoke to the same member, not only about state creditors, but also about all creditors, as well as responsibility, not only enterprises in restructuring, but also about the solidarity of the state that leads investors astray with incorrect data. What's our ultimate goal? Our ultimate goal is to bring investors. What investors? Stable, safe and reliable. What do they care? Legal certainty, the ability to collect their claims, and that when they buy a particular company, some claims are not hidden, which will later appear to exist. That's why we believe that in the new privatisation law, what's good, it's that you here limit deadlines, because so far, the deadlines haven't existed, and this could have lasted indefinitely. For this reason, I think that, first of all, when adopting a new law on privatisation, it is necessary, as you said, Ministers, to seriously consider the amendment to Olga Batic. I see you're thinking the same way. Also, it seems to me that this amendment is suggestible and that it goes in the spirit in which we all seem to think, in the spirit of legal certainty. Because a serious investor from Germany, Great Britain, France, etc., when investing in such countries, certainly does not face such problems. In business circles information of this kind travels at the speed of light, we are all aware of that, so we need to solve these problems as soon as possible. I think it opens the way for new investors to be brought in, but in a way and with the approach that we represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1011	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, following the same amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1012	President-in-Office, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, given that our friend and distinguished colleague Misa Petronijevic very comprehensively explained why the SPS parliamentary group cannot accept the amendment, we must draw attention to only two facts about this amendment. For the sake of reminders, the SPS parliamentary group pointed to problems relating to the provision of members of 20z and in the previous meeting, when we were discussing the provisions of the Privatisation Act, pointing to two problems. These two problems are still present today. One problem is the inability to implement enforcement by forceful means, by forced payment, in which it raises the question of bonity, the possibility of survival, the damage by creditors, not only by state creditors, but also by other creditors, who, among other things, represent the damage to the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget. For reasons of reminders, courts cannot charge court fees, given that there is a delay in the enforcement process. However, on the other hand, in a persuasive way, the other evil exists from this evil, and the question of which of these two evils is to be chosen as less and more acceptable. It is evil for firms in the restructuring process, which are expected to be restructured several times, to finally end, that these same firms, again pesoriously put, heal, stand on their feet and return to business life, and preserve the existence of 54,000 employees with their families. Then the two evil governments apparently chose less evil and came up with solutions that relate to the provision of a member to be attacked by this amendment. Unfortunately, we didn't get an answer as a parliamentary group to ask - what generated this problem that is now attached to this amendment? In particular, is this a question asked by counterpart Misa Petronijevic, which is a debt to state creditors? Or maybe it's something else we should get an answer to today, which is – is the restructuring process that was carried out by 2012, before that until 2009, did it really have to be extended this many times, and that many companies, such as FAP's credentials, as well as many others, are being introduced into business agony? Undoubtedly, no matter what we will not return to the past, the reminders for the sake of it, the MP group of the SPS was once and long ago in 2001 against the Privatisation Act, which is the generator of all these problems. It was against the Privatisation Act, which failed to systematicise surveillance measures, protection mechanisms and control over the implementation of privatisation procedures, where privatisation entities appeared as prey, literally as prey and victims of all those who bought privatisation entities in various ways, devastated the property of these privatisation entities, and then disappeared. Has anyone been responsible for this until recently? No, it's nobody. These are the generators of the problems that have led to today's problem which is otherwise related to the amendment that is now being discussed. When all of this is considered, it is undoubtedly determined that the government is in the way, first of all in these ways of action, we can freely say against the legal action, and on the other hand to protect that social interest, the social category, which is primarily the protection of tens of thousands of employees in privatisation entities in the restructuring process, which we hope will soon be completed. What the SPS parliamentary group sees as imperative is that as soon as possible, that is, the urgent adoption of a comprehensive privatisation law that will solve all these problems in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1013	Thank you. Since there are no more applications under this amendment, we are moving on to the next amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1014	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am submitting an amendment to Article 1 amending Article 20z of Article 1 which reads: "For entities privatising by means of a public tender method, state creditors cannot request forced payment, nor any measure of enforcement to settle the claims made until 31 May 2014. I have to point out that this amendment of mine has caused a lot of attention this morning on the Committee on Economic Affairs, so I just need one brief explanation to give. If I make it through time, Mr. Chairman, please don't interrupt me, but it's Parliament time. The explanation – the overall history of the privatisation process in the Republic of Serbia shows that privatisation entities that sold through a public tender method in more than 80% of cases have more or less successfully continued to operate. Unfortunately, the situation with former social enterprises privatised by the method of public auctions is quite the opposite, where companies that have survived and which at least successfully operate on paper can be counted on the fingers of one hand today. So I suggest that the public auction be eliminated as a method of privatisation. This is very important, and I hope that MPs from other parliamentary clubs will also support this amendment, because we believe that privatisation to a company in restructuring through public auction can be absolutely devastating for these companies. The second part of my argument concerns this deadline. I suggested that it be May 31, 2014, and why? It is also necessary to set the date on which these claims are reported. The mover's wish is for privatisation entities to protect themselves from the possibility of state confidences massingly launching enforcement procedures for debts incurred from 1 January 2008 until 31 May 2014. Otherwise, the idea would be lost and the idea that state creditors should wait for the end of the privatisation process to settle from the price achieved. Why do I suggest this, ladies and gentlemen? As a result, this morning I received a firm promise from the Committee on Economy that these proposals would be incorporated into a new law on privatisation that should be found here in a congregation debate sometime until half of July of the current year. However, we have companies in restructuring where we already have written requirements from potential investors and written offers that are the Ministry of Economy and where we could already start tomorrow or in a few days to talk about capitalisation or some kind of privatisation of these firms in restructuring. If we do not know the exact debts of these companies, and if the state is not obliged to take over at least the obligations of public undertakings that have firms in restructuring, these restructure companies will not have any opportunity to get strategic partners significant and important. I would remind myself that I come from the Municipality of Topola that has two such, extremely important enterprises in restructuring and more or less all colleagues have in their cities and municipalities similar enterprises. Please, someone will ask if this amendment of mine leads to tomorrow, if this would be accepted, the restructure companies are not paying for gas or electricity. In theory, it may happen, but I would remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the one who puts state capital representatives in all firms in restructuring and that it can simply escort this procedure. To be honest, I would ask that one of the promises you made this morning on the Committee on Economy, which is from the mouth of the Secretary of State of Honor Mr. Stevanović, that a single coordination body is being formed tomorrow at the Ministry of Economy which will deal with the case by chance that we can say tomorrow that at least 20-30 or 50 of these firms in restructuring have successfully managed to resolve it. This is of great importance, I'm just afraid of deadlines, because if we wait for a month, two to now individual interested customers, we'll simply refuse. On the other hand, I honestly don't want to damage any private creditors, but I do believe that if the state-owned enterprises that in this case have waited so long, I can wait a little longer to achieve a certain price for these firms in restructuring. That price absolutely can't, once again I have to underline, be achieved at a public auction. Because public auctions have proved to be devastating in the present part of privatisation. I could explain examples, but it'll probably cause a whole series of replicas and my colleagues will probably talk about it. I would ask that these solutions, since I accepted the Secretary of State's explanation, would be necessary to bring the new bankruptcy law into line, but I would ask you to work together with other colleagues from local self-government tomorrow, to get one company at a time, if we can, out of the dubiosis, and to solve them successfully. We can only do so if we clearly have how much each company's debt is individually and if the state accepts that the debts of these companies, which relate to public enterprises, take over to themselves, so that they know the exact prices of these companies and that simply potential investors know what they are buying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1015	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1016	Since the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been mentioned, and since I am chairing this committee, and I did not take a word in the previous session, before the amendments were explained, I would like to say that today we have had a constructive debate, and we have had a little more political debate at the beginning on whether the reform proposals - are not reformal, whether they are constitutional - are not constitutional, but we will discuss this during the session. What is important to say is that Mr Jovanovic's proposal indeed met with approval in terms of the essence of how privatisation should be addressed and his amendment proposal was 31.05.2001. At this point, it would probably trigger the collapse of the whole concept of the law that we're yet to create in that package that we're going to get from 21 laws. Because I keep tripping between the Privatisation Act and the Banks Act. If we were to decidently apply the Privatisation Act, then we would trip into bankruptcy and then we would get a practical collapse of the entire economic system, because if we said how much it costs, then it would cost a lot, much more than we are now giving these 750m euros that we have determined from the budget. Therefore, we should also think about this economic part, the financial part that we are carrying somewhere in the best interest to help companies restructure employees and investors who want to get into certain public private partnerships as soon as possible, but then we enter into that we are not thinking as much about the state as really budget gaps might increase some proposals. So this, I think, was the only solution and this legislative proposal with this kind of amendment that was only accepted, which we'll see later, that we can get conditions so we can start solving through certain working groups of problems. Of course, the Committee is fully open to co-operation with working groups that the ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia will make. I think in that direction we'll all function together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1017	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1018	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I have carefully read this amendment and that it contains only this first part for me would be quite acceptable, because as far as I can see it was very meaningful and based on some experience. We did some wild privatisation, that we didn't do the reprivatisation before, and that was our big mistake. So it wasn't returned to what was private, and instead of making careful privatisation, we sold everything that was social, property of society, based on a law that was very good for some. When I say that the law for some was very good, it means that it had good holes and well-placed. So, I think it was written by those masters of transition and their friends political champions, political party owners, to make it as cheap as possible, so that the more suspicious and cheaper way to get to the huge social wealth. So the social wealth that belonged to everyone takes 1% of the citizens, becomes the owner of 90% of the wealth, and that 99% of our citizens contain only 10% of the property. The reason I would support this amendment is because it rules out auctions. In this very dubious law, there were particularly suspicious auctions, while the tender privatisation proved to be a little better. The amendment promoter excludes this auction in some future privatisations. The auctions should now be remembered, especially by agricultural enterprises. It should be remembered that Milet Jerkovic, who I do not know in which way, is allowed by the Privatisation Act to be a convicted person for tobacco smuggling, as the owner of a suspicious capital allowed to participate in the privatisations of over ten agricultural combinations and cooperatives in Vojvodina, and that large areas of land mainly buys and resells as to foreigners, which very suspicious persons against whom some proceedings are being conducted. Of course, Mr. Jerkovic did all of this in writing with the ruling party of that time and through "Metals Bank" and all of his sins and all of the assets that he had created, the citizens still have to buy by resuscitating "Metals Bank", from there pumping money for the benefit of the man who had the criminal biography and who had auctioned in combinations and agricultural goods. I also don't understand why the Privatisation Act didn't include farming cooperatives? They are in a special way alienated, not in the tender, not at auction, but simply by some kind of direct deal between masters of transition, ruling parties and not individual directors of cooperatives, as our peasants say – they are sold for free. I'll only mention one cooperative. It is about the ZZ "Agrokor" Gornji Milanovac, which was not sold in the tender, was not even sold at the auction. It has invested more than threem euros from the Norwegian government. It's about the production of seed for fertilized sows. The annual income of the house, these cooperatives were supposed to be about sixm euros, but transition masters were doing everything black and the cooperative is currently being sold for less than 30,000 euros, although only the Norwegian government invested over three million and a few thousand euros to modernise the re-procent, from which farmers were to benefit. I'm willing to accept that first part of the amendment. However, as the amendment is voted on in general, I will have this dilemma by the day of voting, but I think I also use this opportunity to stand in the way not only of the privatisations performed by Mile Jerkovic and similar to him, but of the privatisations of various transition masters who are agricultural cooperatives, which were meant to benefit farmers and in favour of agricultural production, privatised for free. There was no tender, no auction. Simply, the property that was supposed to belong to farmers belonged to various tycoons, friends of political leaders and owners of political parties. I urge the current government to examine how cooperatives have alienated themselves. Their vast possessions have disappeared, and it has been poured into the pockets of those whose pockets are usually full of pockets, who wander in their jeeps, with thick chains and thin singers around their necks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1019	Since there are no more applications for this amendment, let's go to the next one. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ciric and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1020	Thank you. With two minutes to explain the amendments, I will also use the time of the parliamentary group. According to the amendments, it follows the Constitutional Court's decision and, better yet, follows what we are told will be done according to the bill itself. Our amendment is - to end the process in all parts of enterprises in restructuring and sales of privatisation entities by the end of this year. In the light of the bill itself, we are told that this will happen in 150 days, perhaps, with the new privatisation law. The content of this amendment simply says in a very clear way what the bill wants to hide, which is that 57,000 people, who, in the Republic of Serbia's budget, have 600m euros or 750m dollars, will either be fired in the next 150 days or by 31 December 2014, because that is what this is about, 57,000 families in restructure companies and about the announcements, as the minister said, not a small number, in the media is six enterprises, which, however you calculate, cannot employ more than 4,000 workers. So, the point is that 52,000 people will either be out of work by the end of this year or the bill is formulated so that essentially the restructuring process continues after those 150 days and that those 52,000 people, 52,000 families continue to receive money from the budget. He can't do both. You can't even end it, you can't even cut the deficit by 600m euros, how many years in a row is the cost of all of us Serbian citizens and you can't even keep these people on the budget. All the government's efforts to show that it's possible I appreciate it and he understands it. It is legitimate for the government to say – we will solve this problem. What's more, it's been heard here as a perfectly understandable excuse that the government, which I am currently the opposition, is forced to solve the problems in which I was more involved. And for colleagues from the majority and for the government, I have to say, I have a lot of understanding. Three governments out of six governments since 2000, I've supported it. These three governments solved problems in which creation was not involved. They completed co-operation with The Hague, with The Hague tribunal as part of the conditions of European integration, Copenhagen plus criteria, with major problems and began normalising Belgrade and Pristina's relations with major problems. So you have my empathy and my full understanding for solving a problem for which creation is absolutely no responsibility in your own words, but that's how it's done in democracies. That's what happens when you get citizens' trust to solve problems that you didn't create yourself, that you inherited from others. My experience with the three governments that I was an opposition and the three governments that I supported is like that. What should be stopped as a practice is to say or at least try to say that the problem that is going to be solved, because very important messages with public responsibility are being sent from here. Fifty-seven thousand families will hear that they will remain employed. I don't want this government that I'm an opposition to, or any government that I'm going to support in front of people in 150 days, who won't be employed at that time. The responsibility of public words is reflected precisely in hearing each other very carefully and the fact that someone is critical, a remark, does not mean that it is against anything. On the contrary, it means it's to solve the problem. Sixm euros is a large part of the overall deficit of the Republic of Serbia's budget. If you're going to bring budget rebalances and laws before budget rebalances so that there are no restructuring funds in the rebalancing or for the end of 2014, that means there will be cancellations. If there's going to be funds, that means we're not telling the truth here about solving the problem, and the problem is big because it's about living people. He can't do both. As the tone of the debate in which we listen and participate here, which speaks of criticism and of the negative attitude towards privatisation as a process, it does not look like a tone awaiting a new law on privatisation, looks like the tone that the Nationalisation Act would enter here. I ask you to be careful when speaking public words because it's a common shame, if we talk here about how total privatisation is a disastrous process and everything has been wrong and everything is absolutely meaningless and then we're going to bring what? New privatisation law? An example of the privatisation law was seen by this congregation, as well as by the Law on bankruptcy, as well as by the Labour Act. Whether or not it will be changed, I don't know, I'll see when it comes to the assembly procedure, but it's too important that we should succumb to the temptations of political folklore when it comes to the completion of business for enterprises in restructuring and when it comes to the new privatisation law. There is no minister and there is no Prime Minister, as much as anyone thinks that the current, current Prime Minister is capable and as much as I do not think he has the ability to solve these problems, there is no one who can complete the restructuring and keep the employees until the end of 2014. That's a fact. The political folklore we're going to exchange here will not produce consequences for that fact. They'll produce us all in the O.R. in five months with the hope that we from the opposition will be able to resist the temptation - did we tell you that you've been telling us a lot of things in the debate about the amendment to the law that you asked for 150 days? Such temptation should resist, if you're responsible for the opposition. That's why we're having a debate on the amendments now, because it's time to understand what the public's responsibility is, secondly, it's time to understand that it's about living people and that it's not in the interest of anyone to cheat and lie and because it's about the budget deficit that the restructuring funds are burdening in almost half the total amount. If we really want to make a cut from 2009, 2007, 2012, when it comes to enterprises in restructuring, then this is the way to do it. Then it's a way to share information with people that six or eight, which is as many as 4,000 people, businesses may find an investor, may have success. If we leave a message here that privatisation is a terrible process that has destroyed Serbia, because before the privatisation started, everything was great and nobody had any debts, all of a sudden there are evil privatisation processes, and then you come with the Privatisation Act, which if it stays the way the World Bank Group did, the 2001 Privatisation Act will look like a nice read. Then we come to change the Law on the Privatization Agency with V.D. Privatization manager, if it stays the way the World Bank Group did. Words remain written and due to current satisfaction, political folklore, where it is popular to talk about that privatisation is a terrible process, it will not be good for the ruling majority, or for opposition, or for the jobs that the government, according to the information it shares, intends to do in time ahead of us. I am not asking the minister to give me an answer to the question whether everyone who is now employed and who is paying all Serbian citizens still in 2015 in the budget, because I do not think it is correct to ask you to answer such a question. But I have to ask everyone for that and ask you and the government who are working and building support with the ruling majority MPs, to sort of agree that there are times, that there are words in those times, and that for many of the words that are being used here, time has passed forever. If that's the deal, great. If not, we will continue to explain to you what the weight of the spoken word means. I have no idea that anyone in the majority will accept this amendment, nor have I submitted that amendment to ensure the majority. This amendment serves what I think every MP has as an obligation, which is to explain to people what will happen to them by passing a member of the law or some law in general and by keeping track of the words you use. Therefore, I repeat, my amendment says we should complete the restructuring process by the end of December 2014. If that were possible, it means that Serbia's budget would no longer be burdened with 600m euros or 750m dollars, which it otherwise intended for the fifth year in a row for these people to practically receive money from the budget. I know there's no easy way for any of us to rule this amendment, if voted, to be fully applied, but I also know it has to be made clear what it's about. It's about the decision of various governments not to let people be fired, even in a situation where there's no money, no investment, no conditions for business in which they work. There will be such businesses yet, but in order to achieve success in such companies, it will not help the atmosphere in which privatisation here is qualified as the worst thing that has happened in Serbia and I share it with you as the most well-meaning warning, because the bitter fruits of such an approach will be one process which is inevitable to all, but the most difficult consequences will be the ones to which the provisions of this law will be directly applied. Thank you for the attention you've listened to me with. I really ask that we understand each other, to get the right to run public affairs sometimes means most often that you solve problems that you haven't created. I say to you that if we sit past this hall, and we compare whether it is harder to solve the problems of the enterprises in restructuring or to complete co-operation with The Hague tribunal, it would take a lot of words to compare what is more difficult and what is easier. I have no intention of opening this debate, but I intend to repeat these words every time they're spoken here -- that's what we want very much, but we didn't create this problem. That's what it's about sometimes. It doesn't matter who created the problem, it's important if we have the knowledge and will to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1021	I ask the Members of Parliament to stick to the agenda when explaining the amendments. This time I tolerated Mrs. Comic, she came out wider, believing that she wanted to explain as much as possible, but I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Babic, if you want the word after the amendment, then the Prime Minister has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1022	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really listened very carefully to the presentation of the distinguished colleague. I wasn't at the very beginning of exposure here, but I only listened very carefully. I absolutely support some of the things that have been said and I think that one of the essential things of your presentation, i.e. the presentation of a fellow Member, was the responsibility for the publicly expressed words and particularly displayed caution when it comes to the presentation of views, opinions, definitions here at the House of the National Assembly, concerning human fate, human lives and jobs. I think the responsibility that we, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, show this time may be one of the biggest differences between us as Government and several previous governments. I don't want you here, or the citizens of Serbia to be fooled that there is a possibility that in 150 days the problem of 164 enterprises in restructuring and preserving 56,000 jobs, because if I were to say so, I would be irresponsible to all those who have such a possible statement, I would be irresponsible to myself. Simply, if I were to claim it, neither I, nor anyone present here would be telling the truth. The fact that for many years we do not have a solution to the company's restructuring problem, but rather their accumulation and not the resolution, says there was no firm solution, so I can say courage or perhaps that kind of responsibility to the citizens to solve the problem. In my opening statement and the interpretation of the bill in principle, I think I once said that our goal was to save those 150 days, if we could save five, ten, 15 or 20 companies, we did a big thing, because without this law, as much as tomorrow, we couldn't save any. I absolutely support what you've said - responsibility for the public statement. I haven't heard from anyone at any time, listening carefully to the presentations of fellow MPs, that someone has generally criticised privatisation as a process of ownership transformation. On the contrary, even with praises, which I brought to the expense of the applicable law, which was passed 13 years ago, I heard a lot of criticism in the way that the law was implemented, to the absence of calling for the responsibility of those who had carried out the privatisation process contrary to the law. I think we live in a time when one who is seriously involved in politics cannot oppose the privatisation process. It has been shown, not only in Serbia, but in a whole series of countries around the world, that the state is bad at managing the economy. Then when he's a good boss, it's most often an individual who does it, but as a system, it's turned out to be bad. I don't know if anyone said that privatisation, that someone put out their negative view of privatisation as a process and said that privatisation was terrible. No, I realized that co-workers and colleagues provided terrible data on poorly implemented privatisations from the provinces of Serbia, from which they came, and on the lack of state control of the privatisation process. There is not much left in Serbia to privatise, but what is left, and the country's commitment to privatise it should be implemented through the most transparent and best possible privatisation process, which cannot be allowed nor can be objected to. Obviously, we haven't established such a system in 13 years. Obviously, there were a lot of shortcomings in this system, a lot of disadvantages, and we came to a situation where some companies, which were estimated to have been able to operate and survive on the market, went on a non-refundable basis through poorly implemented privatisation. I repeat again, I have no problem saying this, but that is the problem we need to fight. Let's get this straight, let's say, we're solving a problem we didn't create. Every government does that. More or less, when you look at it, every government has solved some of the problems inherited from the previous period. That makes perfect sense. Normally, we're in politics, so someone wants to show their responsibility more to solve than to create a problem. Everyone is responsible for the period of performance of a public function. Once again, just because I consider myself and my colleagues in the Government of the Republic of Serbia responsible, I will say – is it possible to preserve all, just over 56,000 jobs and successfully end the restructuring of 164 companies? It's not possible. Especially can't be done in five months, if it hasn't been done for the last five, six, seven, 15 years. If we are talking about some possible solutions, I have not seen that so far any government has tried to solve the issue, that is, the problems of the restructuring companies in such a way that the subsidies it has given them to work, to create an illusion for the people who have worked in them, that they are doing market well and successfully, instead of the means to subsidise their production that these funds have been invested as incentives to create new jobs, we would be able to employ 56,000 of these so far, perhaps 5,000 in some other place in the real sector. It wasn't done that way. Of course, there are some things that are well done. There's a mention of Fiat. I support it. I don't have a problem saying if it's something that's well done, that works well. Yes, but then don't honor anyone, you haven't published a contract for something else, and for this Fiat, which is a good story for Serbia, no contract has been published either. Let's build some relationship of principle, as we absolutely agreed there must be responsibility for the public statement. One day in 20, 50, 100 years someone will take to read the records from these sessions and already to a good extent, since we have completed our political and professional careers, they will see what we have spoken of, what we have stood for, what we have achieved while we have performed a certain function. That's why I'm saying every word we say is a word behind which we can stand. The essence of this amendment to the Law on Privatisation, I repeat once again, is that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that of those 164 enterprises as far as we can save, because, obviously, if there was a concept, an action plan or whatever it was to save them, it didn't exist on the ground. If we are able to save, and we are one step away from saving one FAP, we have saved several municipalities of southwestern Serbia. The one FAP may have the value of some 10, 15, 20 smaller enterprises, but it could be the future engine of development in the region, as it used to be the engine of development in that part of Serbia. If we manage to save one Budimka in Požega, and I am confident that we can save, we have saved a large number of producers of fruits and vegetables in Serbia, because most of the other factories, which were engaged in this work, have failed. That's why I appreciate what my colleagues said. When an example is given that a "Serbian" Valjevo could have failed, an example is given that a "Delishes" in Vladic's Han could have failed. One of Europe's two most quality fruit concentrate factories has failed. There were words yesterday, right away you know, I have no problem mentioning any company, about Magnochroma. One of the two factories in Europe that produced components for the production of high furnaces, one of two. It's all in front of our eyes with a smaller, larger, or no contribution from any of us or any of us has failed. Let's see what we can save from these 164 companies. So, that's what we're looking at to make this amendment to the law. The artificial extension of the deadlines will only be to fool ourselves, to fool the most citizens who work in these companies. I mentioned something in my opening statement. I have to say it one more time. We have companies where workers are run as employees, where they don't actually work. It's not those people's fault. It's not their fault. Maybe if some previous government had as much support as we do today, and without such support, something like this can't be done, to remind you, maybe she didn't have the courage, will or desire, whatever, it doesn't matter, she would solve those problems. We've come, I have to make that point, we've fallen into a trap ourselves. When the Privatisation Act was passed in 2001, our country then made a commitment to implement privatisation through a fast system. Maybe it'd be good if she was in a fast system and implemented, and then we'd know what we are. Through the introduction of restructuring, we have come into the trap that no quick privatisation has been carried out here and that we have had a hard time implementing or trying failed privatisations that we have been dragging behind us for over a decade. Nobody wants to cut that thing off. Why is that? There are several reasons. I'll also say what I don't blame any of the previous governments. We have reasons for companies that are in extremely strategic areas of great importance for our country. Are we talking about southeastern Serbia? We're talking. Are we talking in southwestern Serbia? We're talking. Are we talking about other areas that are border areas, securely unstable? We're talking. Let's find a solution. I say again, that the funds that were spent on subsidies... I listened to one study that said that until a contract with the "Fiitat" was concluded that so much money had been invested in the flag that we could raise two of the most modern cars at the price at which they were raised in Slovakia, where they were most open in Europe in the last decade. I heard that information, I really can't remember where it came from, so you won't mind me after I bought it. That's what the People's saying says. But even if it wasn't so at one point, the state dared to get into the story of the "Fiyat", it did well and therefore that part of our economic branch today works well. It covers our imports with our exports. I am convinced that this government of the Republic of Serbia will have the strength to bring even more such steps and investments into Serbia, that the Fiat itself is doing even more actively, even better, as it has had the strength to bring in an "Etihad" for a strategic partnership with ER Serbia, and that we can proudly say today that we have the only regional airline to record success and it is progressively recording it. I think we should all be proud of these two things and continue to do such things, as, on the one hand, we don't need to view this amendment of the law, nor the adoption of new laws alone. This government has uniquely stated its position that, as we will do to address these problems, we will aggressively launch a new employment policy, that we will improve business conditions on our labour market. There's a clear definition. There's a plan. There's a whole series of measures we're willing to implement. This is one of the things we have to fight. Believe me, when I said it myself, if I was able to say it, I said that we were solving a problem that we didn't create, I probably said it in the heat of the debate for the simple reason that the argument came before that – whether these are your reforms, and what kind of law you're going to the assembly with, you're playing your promises. We're not playing anything. This is something we have to do. This has to be done. If we don't do this, our problems only accumulate further and increase multiplely. Therefore, thank you for your very correct views. As the rhetorical question has been asked – what will happen by passing this law is always the other rhetorical question – what will happen if this law is not passed. Here, simply passing this law is an extortional matter. I am convinced that in this short time ahead of us, we will succeed in 164 companies to save one without a number. No matter how much we save them, it's better than not saving any of them. I'm sure we all have a unique attitude about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1023	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1024	Dear Chairman, MPs, we have carefully listened to the amendment's proposal and to the Minister's presentation. I fully agree with the Minister's statement. What is important as the conclusion of this amendment is that we don't get much with this one month, but the proposer of this amendment has presented in one bad way that we now have to do in record time everything that someone hasn't done in ten years and we've been asking the question – why has it been broken since 2001 every year, as they say, by some Constitution and why have some deadlines been extended? Now that we have to decide really in the right way about the fate of the company, someone is making suggestions that something must be effective, fast, productive, etc. Don't worry about it. This SNS-led government will do everything effectively and quickly. Even if we were to compare ourselves with you if things were done and in the next four years it would be twice as fast, it wouldn't be twice as fast because you didn't do it, and if you'd done it, it would have been twice as fast because we would have done it more efficiently than you. What is important if we talk about these public enterprises, when we talk about "Icarbus" and FAP is not just the fate of these companies. For Icarbus or FAP, 20 other cooperative companies produce parts in the form of glass, plastics, tyres and other needs in order to complete the product. Therefore, and for these reasons, we want to make the most of our commitment to solving this problem, and besides setting someone's deadlines at all costs that something has to end quickly, and what is quick to do, make a suggestion on how to raise these companies to healthy feet in terms of strategic partners, in terms of cost reduction, that these companies work rationally, effectively. As you've seen, we've made suggestions on how to cut costs in the state administration, how to save some money so that we don't put money in the well anymore, which is the way we've been throwing money away for ten or 15 years, and these are SNS measures, even if they're unpopular. We have seen what wastefulness means, which means you spend on official cars and various trips around the world, trips that have not brought a single dinar to our country to Serbia. And so there is a huge difference, and so don't set certain deadlines, but what Alexander Vukic promised, what the government of the Republic of Serbia promised, and what the minister of justice was talking about today, will be respected, because for what we've given it, we'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1025	Once again, I ask the MPs to stick to the agenda. I would just like to announce, since you are more registered, the order: Vladimir Djukanovic, Goran Ćirić, Vojislav Vujic, Vuceta Toskovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Sutanovac, I don't see any reason for replication. It wasn't about you, he was talking about power, he didn't mention you personally. Please note that you do not have the right to reply. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1026	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, perhaps this amendment could be considered and accepted, since it requires that all procedures be restructured and sold by the privatisation entity by December 31st, but you might be able to accept that if you had real parameters whether it is feasible. Unfortunately, in this country for many years nothing has been controlled or really you have a parameter of whether something like this can be done. I believe that the future Privatisation Act announced here, or whoever participates in its creation, will probably take care of it. Otherwise, why can't I accept it, I believe, and my colleagues, the signator of this amendment, among other things, an MP who a few days ago, or when we started discussing the principle of the Privatisation Act, said that certain businesses here worked, among other things, worked "Jumko" because the army ordered uniforms, on the other hand, worked FAP because the army ordered trucks. You know, it's a directive economy, it's self-government socialism, it's dead, it doesn't exist anymore. Simply, if the MP is already signing under such an amendment, then he is in contradiction - whether it is for a directive economy that is otherwise contrary to EU principles in many ways, or for such an amendment where he asks us to absolutely privatise everything in this country. I understand, of course, I have repeatedly pointed out that the current government is neither guilty nor obliged to solve these problems. Someone here compared it to the UN tribunal's problem. I have to admit that we can't exactly compare that, because the issue of the UN tribunal is something that may have been imposed on us on the outside, this is our fault here in this country because we have this kind of chaos with the enterprises in restructuring. We watered, or some previous governments watered weeds that today someone had to rip out and solve. It has nothing to do with solving such a problem, let's say, such as the UN tribunal that may have been imposed on us outside. So I would really ask, we have to accept responsibility, otherwise I'm personally a big privatization supporter, that we've done healthy privatisation, like we haven't done, maybe we wouldn't have cases like Agrobank, where you're on a nice, personal map, you could get credit, because in no private bank, you could never, or "Vojvodine Development Bank," or something like that, because that man who wants to run an honest and domestic business, certainly wouldn't allow anything like that. If there wasn't a privatisation here exclusively related to getting a better location or getting machines from that company, workers staying on the street, I don't think we'd have this company problem in restructuring today. That's why this amendment just can't be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1027	Mr. Sutanovac, you can report for the amendment, please. Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1028	Mr. Chairman, Article 107. When the MP was recognised in his colleague's speech, and I'm a signator of the amendment and I was talking about "Jumko", I was talking about "Jumko" and "FAP" working at a time when she was a former government, you are obliged to give me your word. You didn't participate in this session yesterday, you weren't present, I spoke on the subject for almost half an hour on Saturday, and I would ask you to respect it. There's not much opposition here, there's not much time here, but be collegiate, give us your word to answer these charges that are completely pointless. Can I use the MP's time? I'm an authorized promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1029	Yes, you are authorized, I understand, Mr. Sutanovac, but please. In the presentation of Mr Djukanovic, I did not recognize anything offensive. He did call the previous government, but the previous government wasn't just you. Therefore, you can use your time available to discuss the amendment and refer to it. Please, in that sense, don't insist now, I don't think there's any breach of the Rules of Procedure and you have no right to replication. It's no problem for me to give it to you, but if I break one principle, then I have to treat everyone like that. Here, come on, after all, when you're so persistent, this congregation won't lose or win because you'll be talking for another two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1030	The Democratic Party believes that what is done these days is necessary to do and is not controversial. It's a dispute that we knew that since November last year, it's a dispute that we came to the teatung to make a move since November last year. On the other hand, yesterday, a respected government colleague accused the city of not just implementing what you call a directive economy by getting buses for the city of Belgrade. Yesterday you accused us of dealing with the market economy, today you accuse us of dealing with the directive's economy. Let's agree on what you really want to do in this country and what it is that you think will contribute to the better and those businesses that we're talking about today. It is not a question of "Jumka" a question of need for an army of Serbia, "Jumko" worked for the post office, "Jumko" also worked for armies outside our borders. You were talking to an esteemed colleague that we were just traveling. Let's just take it so it can be true. In 2011, which was economically bad, the state of Serbia had foreign investments of a billion and 800m euros, in these two phenomenal years we have a billion euros, in this year 92m euros in foreign investment. How do you plan to start production and economy if no one comes to Serbia to invest? (President: Time.) I'm using the MP's time group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1031	You can't use it in a replica. I gave you a replica, please. I won't allow any more replicas. I was wrong to allow the discussion to go past the amendment. There was a 90% debate here in principle. Therefore, I am drawing a conclusion from this – the more tolerated I am, the more you abuse me. Then I'll apply the strict Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1032	A member of the 104th was injured, which literally states: “If the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is offended about a national MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, he has the right to replication. “ I didn’t do either, nor did I do the third, and I don’t know on what basis the apostle in question was given the right to reply. By the way, and what he said about Belgrade, and it was in some way a directive economy, since the company apparently set up the bus business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1033	Don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. I think you'll appreciate my certain tolerance, especially when it comes to the opposition, to give them a chance. You know well that I opposed that replica, but in the end I gave in, believing that we would give the opposition a little more time so they could show themselves. Thank you very much. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1034	Dear President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will remind you of the amendment, since we have strayed from this topic and the amendments we have submitted. Therefore, the amendment reads – the Agency will end the restructuring and sale procedures of privatisation entities by 31 December 2014. Once again, the arguments my colleague Gordana Komic made, which is our desire to give clear deadlines and I think it is useful for the government itself, to define the deadline to do more effectively than we have done, or what the government has been doing since November 2013. I'll remind you that the Constitutional Court has reached a verdict with a delayed fact... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1035	Mr. Kiriq, please, I have to intervene now. This is an amendment debate, and please don't go into debate in principle. Explain what you have under the amendment that filed a portion of your men from the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1036	Mr. Chairman, I'm just talking about the amendment and one of the arguments is what I started to say, which is that the Constitutional Court, making a ruling in November 2013 with a six-month delay, gave it exactly six months to do something about the restructuring of the system in Serbia. So that deadline wasn't used. Now this amendment says – we need to define the deadlines, because with the government's proposed bill, we're practically getting a new 150 days, or the government gets a new 150 days with 30, plus 90, plus 30 days, to end the whole process. That's exactly what I'm talking about. So, we say - if today is May, since the majority in the Assembly will obviously adopt this bill, we will enter the October month, and our proposal says - at least commit to completing this process by the end of this year 2014. For reasons that workers working in these restructured systems come out of the agony of uncertainty, which I again say is not solely responsible for this government, nor the previous one, but also for the previous governments. We say you'll be more efficient if clear deadlines are defined, because so far there's not been enough efficiency for this job to be done. Secondly, it is also important for creditors because, according to some estimates, people from the Ministry of Economy are not precise enough, blocked somewhere around a billion or slightly more euros, and that is out of the economy at the moment. So, in that sense, our well-intentioned proposal is to define the deadlines to be much more effective. There will be no success, because I think most of us here live and work in two different systems, in a social property system and in the 1990s, transforming that social property into a private one. Obviously, we have this problem and the relationship to the privatisation process in general. The minister himself said that there should be no general resistance to the privatisation process that is necessary, but we have seen from the largest number of performances, especially examples, and mostly bad examples of privatisation, to give away a general atmosphere of general resistance to the privatisation process. I don't think such an atmosphere can contribute to a successful process, not in five months, not until the end of the year, not much longer, unless we change it. It is important to mention these good examples that the Government has done from 2008 to 2012, and this is a good example of the privatisation of the Fiat and this investment that we all acknowledge is good. I think it is also important to say that this resistance to privatisation and our one contradictory approach to the privatisation process in general illustrates a great round of applause that we have seen in this room following the inauguration of our prime minister, which is that we are mostly speaking against the privatisation process by accusing certain actions. I call on all those who, in such a way, give a general view of privatisation to name the names and names of those of the most responsible people who have started and completed such a process, but do not need to generalise the general ineffectiveness of the whole process. Then these same people get up and five minutes of open applause at the Prime Minister's announcement that they will privatise "Telecom", that they will also privatise the EPS and that they will be privatised...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1037	Please, that part of your exposure really has nothing to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1038	I'm talking about the approach and necessity of open access and a unique position on this particular subject. Without such access, there will be no success in this process. I hope, cheer, and believe that this government will do at least one good example, just like "Fiat" in Kragujevac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1039	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1040	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm probably not well understood or my words are not entirely heard and interpreted. First, I repeat again, I have not recognized in any case resistance to the privatisation process. If you come from a place where the company worked pretty well, where 1,000 people were employed, the state carried out privatisation of the company, privatisation was reduced to cutting machines into old iron, selling halls and using wages as building land, and someone was against it, I was the first against such privatisation, because the state was not to control the privatisation contract. If that's against privatisation, I'm the first against it. So, I'm the first opponent of such privatisation. My fellow MPs and I personally talked about the fact that privatisation here was carried out in an extremely bad way, which was often opposed to the law. Was that the aim of the 2001 legislator? I want to believe he wasn't. I want to believe that the legislator had good intentions back then. But unfortunately, that good intention melted into reality. The proof that privatisations have often been misimplemented is that in the same neighborhoods we have had a man come as an investor, unfortunately rarely, to open a company, or a factory that deals with identical activity and achieves success. We ask the question – was it necessary to completely destroy what existed, so that someone might come back and do it again? It's a question of economists, I'm not going into it now. I never objected to privatisation once. Now, let me tell you right now, everything that's been owned by the state, and for many years it's been producing only losses, is something that needs to be privatized, so whatever it is. It's just a question of how to approach it. Do you, with a certain kind of consolidation of the recovery of these companies, raise value to them, sell them at a better price, or sell them immediately? That's something else, another question. The truth is, I cited a good example of the government from 2008 to 2012, when it comes to the investment of the "Fiyat", but I also stated that during that government, two-thirds of these companies came into restructuring. Of 164 companies, over 100 were then introduced into the restructuring process by the privatisation agency, two-thirds of these companies. Let's watch both sides of the medal. I'll say it and try to always say it the way it is. "Sits guilty, but the right words," says our people. So, is "Fiat" good? Yes, it is. Is it good that over 100 companies were introduced into restructuring in 2010 and 2011 alone? That's not good. Unfortunately, we had this "Fiat" that took several years of government. Then we had after a year "Er Serbia" as a result. I think we've shown more efficiency as a government. Let's be completely open and honest here. Are we against privatisation in general as a kind of ownership transformation? We didn't. Are we against doing privatisation the way it's been done in a long number of years? Most problematicly, the worst if you want to when there wasn't a party in the government to which you or the party I'm falling into was from 2004 to 2007. When you look at what companies are where the privatisation contract is broken. You will come to the conclusion that these are companies that are then privatized. We can analyze the origin of the problem over and over and over again and never finish this debate. Come on, let's solve these problems now. The point of your amendment is to extend the deadline by another month and a half, if I'm not wrong about something like that, so it's said by the end of this year, about a month and a half. The bottom line of our proposal for amending the law is that where we've been working hard so far, and that's where we're different, you say six months, the government hasn't done anything. Well, that's not true, if the government hadn't done anything for six months, we wouldn't be able to talk here if we had a real real chance to solve the FAP problem. If the government hadn't done anything today, and not just in the case of FAP, but in a whole series of other companies from which we might be able to succeed, I'm confident that we can save ourselves. And if we're going where we haven't done anything so far, or if we haven't made any progress, if we're going to be able to do it in those 45 days, I don't believe it. So I don't think we'll be able to do that. Give us where we've made some progress, some shift in attracting foreign investors to come. Let's give it a chance and make it work. That's the essence of this legal change. And are we completely against privatisation? As you yourself have well quoted, or paraphrased part of the Prime Minister's exposé, of course we haven't. But in the way that it's been done in a long series of years for us, under these or those governments, we're not up for it either. If we were to privatise the remaining state property in certain companies, we would carry out large companies in the way it was done in a long series of years before this government, I'm afraid that for days or weeks, our survival would be measured in this function, because such privatisation is something absolutely unacceptable. As many attempts as we've had, I don't know if anyone can list 10 cases in Serbia that we've been looking at a social enterprise to get better and then sell it. No, the opposite things were done. Intentionally, the capital and the value of an enterprise’s assets are satisfied to be sold as cheaply as possible. So yesterday, when I was talking about it, that's why I mentioned the case that we immediately sold the companies that brought the money, which wasn't hard to sell in every country. Did I object to the privatisation of, say, cement? No, I just think she could go in another, better moment. So, I don't object to what was done, I object to unplanned access to privatisation, and that right in that part, in that period when I said that another government was in office. I objected to the unplanned, say, sales of industrial complexes that are of paramount importance to the country's defence and security. Because during these privatisations, we did not protect this interest from vital importance to the state by saying that there was absolutely no planical action in such cases. For example, it's essential for the defence and security of the state in the copper rolling stock in Sevojn. So it's a company that's in the area, and I believe Mr. Sutanovac will agree with me, and it's very important. It's suddenly sold. Today, this company has serious problems. The West of the company's serious problems threatened the country's defence and security, but that should have been considered the moment the company was sold, and apparently not. Then we come into a situation where some areas, some things that are vital to the functioning of the country, are also how they are threatened. Remember, it's time-for-time privatized chemically, I mean, the County chemical industry. At one point we lost a producer in the country and in the region of the water treatment component. Then we simply questioned the quality of drinking water for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, I only remind myself of cases that have come to mind, and that's all you want. I think that every reasonable, after our bitter experience as a country should be against conducting privatisation in such a way as not to take into account literally every aspect of the importance of an enterprise for a city, county, province or if you want the whole country. Because that's how some other values were handled we questioned. I think this kind of attitude is absolutely correct to anyone that we belong to or belong to the government. I'm sorry you weren't there yesterday when I said, as a citizen of this country, as a Serb – I'm proud when our soldier wears the uniform that was made here. I don't mind that, or mailman, postman, but unfortunately today we have a country where seven million people live, a little more than seven million people whose army was much smaller than the army of some larger country we were in. Such companies can't only work from the production of uniforms for our army. That it was more done to strengthen the Jumka, that it could market business, that not only went to subsidies to support it and that you had the structure of employees where almost one third of it was administrative staff and auxiliary staff, were not engaged in production at all. That it was more and more meaningful to think about and approach it, therefore, whether it was disputed one moment at a time that FAP or Jumko or some other firm for our army absolutely did not. The problem was all that was short breath. That's our biggest problem. Unfortunately, short breath. It's not a dispute, I say, this government has the support, has the will, has the courage to take this problem and solve it. He's got to get rid of it. If we don't solve it, problems and problems are piled up, but give it, as Col. Komic said, to take responsibility for a publicly spoken word, to be aware that this should not be a topic, nor a polygon for political bickering, but for solving the problem. And to solve this problem, we start solving it, to solve it, we have to bring this amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1041	Mr. Sutanovac, you're looking for a replica? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I've been named. It is a name, but in a positive sense. Nothing was offensive. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I will respond in a positive sense as well. I won't give you a replica, in a positive sense he mentioned you. I listened carefully to the minister, and he only said that you would agree when it comes to the "Sevojno" rolling room and nothing else. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I seek the word of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Dragan Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1042	Mr. Chairman, Article 107. It's completely unnatural to ask me how I recognized myself in my last name. If I were Petrovic, there might be more Petrovic, but Sutanovac... (President: Please explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Don't interrupt me, please. I got my time. Most of your speech, Mr. Minister, I completely agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1043	I won't give you my word. Sit down, please. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1044	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, takes quite a lot of concentration to get back to what we talked about an hour ago, because I don't think 45 minutes is absolutely talking about an amendment that's on the agenda. I'm going to listen to you so I don't spread my discussion about the principle, because she's passed, and then we made it clear, i.e. Petar Petrovic, deputy head of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, said we would support all of this. If we go back to this amendment, I may have been offended at the moment when the amendment's proposer said this was all a matter of political folklore and I don't think it should be generalized like it shouldn't be generalized by all 164 enterprises in restructuring. I absolutely agree with the minister in the part where he said that this deadline was necessary, not only because of that sharp cut that would probably create some social rebellion for 50 and a few thousand workers, but because there was absolutely no agreement in some previous governments to solve these problems. I can say that on a personal case, because I come from Vrnjaka Banja, and I'm not going to talk about the company of HTTP "Fontana", as some have talked about what businesses exist in their cities, because almost every city has a company like this. It would be inconclusive to say that they're a catering company that cooks the best breakfast, lunch, dinner, laughs at reception, etc., but I can say that from local self-government we've managed to find two investors in two governments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1045	Mr. Vujic, please, as for the others, so does you. Stick to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1046	I'm sticking to the amendment. I'm just making an introduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1047	You can't talk about a hot meal right now. I won't let you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1048	I thought you were warning this pitch, because I can't hear you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1049	We need to make a deal. The principle applies to every MP, whether or not from my party. As for Mr. Sutanovec, so is you and anyone. Please return to your amendment, or I'll take your word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1050	I've just come to the amendment, and you've interrupted me again. I thought you forbade them to pay me. Here's the thing. This deadline is necessary. Why? Because in the two previous governments, we had two resolute ministers who did not allow us to privatise despite the fact that we as a local self-government brought in an investor who was willing to participate in the privatisation of HTP "Fontana", the same large complex of the catering company. If it wasn't for this deadline, we'd be in trouble. That's why I agree with what the minister says. We will not support it as a parliamentary group of this amendment. The law in principle, I repeat, support and count on other local self-governments, as we from the Unity of Serbia in Vranjska Banja, have managed to bring investors to help, within this deadline, which is proposed, we are all going together to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1051	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1052	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, first of all, I think it's very important that we all understand that the opposition in this assembly has 20 minutes and 20 seconds. That's what we're trying to explain to the amendments, and you keep narrowing down, not you personally, but also Mrs. President, space at all for the opposition to say anything in this assembly. Even those 20 minutes and 20 seconds are hard to handle. How do you think anyone, and you know, has been in the assembly for a long time, Mr. General, how do you think someone would explain the amendment without putting it in some context? So, all we have to do is read, spell letters from the front and back. When it comes to the amendment, a certain context is needed, otherwise we'll all just read the amendment. It's narrowing down the opposition's parliamentary space. That means the opposition can't say anything. If it's not true, let us. As you have introduced unacceptable practice, there is a dictator of this practice, that when the Rules of Procedure is advertised, the President of Parliament interrupts the MPs when he thinks he can interrupt it, two minutes ago, before it expires, as far as possible, but I ask you not to do so. Let the opposition say something. Therefore, this amendment is in line with the government's policy, which has set a deadline for everything and has already broken that deadline. This amendment is nothing compared to your efficiency to solve life problems by removing cars and moving hours. You can also privatize the hours of work if you get up before you go to bed, at 05.20. That's what we're trying to explain. If we're all going to set deadlines, then let's give a deadline for this. What's wrong with that? We all want to keep these workers safe, but your MPs say a little while ago that it's the weeds we've been watering, that the weed workers we've been watering. You don't listen to each other. When someone from the opposition tries to explain it through this amendment, that the privatisation process must have an end and that this cannot happen in the way Minister Selakovic says - artificially extending the deadlines is misleading citizens who work there. We agree with the minister. So what's the problem with this deadline being respected? Because it's from the opposition. We're helping the government because we're giving her a longer deadline than she wants to do herself. This is the only government in Europe that refuses a longer term, which shows that this government does not believe what it says and promises citizens. That's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1053	Although you haven't even advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I think I owe a little explanation. This Rules of Procedure did not write, and the Rules of Procedure are very clear and precise – each speaker is obliged to respect the agenda. I understand the need for a man to expand the subject to explain the amendment, but if 90% of the reasons for the amendment apply to the principle debate, I'm sorry, as chairman, I can't accept it, as much as you convince me that you're right. I know you know very well that I'm right, but okay. The word is Mr. Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1054	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was looking for a word based on the replica, because I was looking for a word and I wanted to speak for the amendment, if you'll allow me, after the replica. First, how much time there is that the parliamentary group does not determine the president, but the size of the parliamentary group, and the size of the parliamentary group determines the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections, and they say the parliamentary group represented by the previous speaker has 6% support, which means 20 minutes. It is neither the President of Parliament's fault nor the citizens of the Republic of Serbia's fault, because in this way and this time respects the electoral will, and they should take more care of whether they will have so much time in the next meeting. As for solving the problem, maybe I can agree with the speed, that it takes faster, that it takes more agile. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS, is constantly searching for new quality and new strength in itself, but also in people who are outside the SNS, who we have hired both in the government and who we will engage in the future, because we do not slave to party interests, but with the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Maybe that speed isn't enough, but the speed that the previous regime was causing problems, well, that's where they were champions, really. That's where I take their hat off. They're here unhinged in troublemaking. As a result, different concepts of this government and previous governments are, as previous rules are problems, this government solves problems and solves challenges.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1055	According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1056	Another one in a series of reasons why this amendment cannot be accepted because it is extremely dishonest and in the interpretation of the amendment itself. Now someone here is calling for a story about workers, of course, misreading something I said here. Among other things, I said that someone was watering weed by not solving the company's restructuring problem...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1057	There's no replica after the amendment. Please, in particular, refer to all MPs. It is impossible for all the presidents to see the same, that no one is talking about the amendments. This applies to all MPs, and I also answer to MPs who, as president, respected me for the disrespect of the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1058	Since, among other things, the amendment is connected to certain rights of workers, you know, if someone here hadn't sold to the Sharics and had not so destroyed all these companies, maybe someone would have thought of the workers. Today, it's terrible that through an amendment like this, someone is trying to show attention to the workers, and they're essentially trying to shut down their businesses tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1059	Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds do you want the word? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. You don't have any more time in the system. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: How do we not have time? We're not taking opposition time. No, the system's out of time, I'm sorry. You have to keep a record. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: We spoke three minutes after Mrs. Comic. Mr. Stefanovic, it's impossible. From the beginning, how we started working on this call that all the chairmans take time for anyone. That's just impossible. I, as MPs to you, have a special affection and I suffer criticism from others, a matter of feeling, must say that there are as many of you as there are in the parliamentary group. To know the rules of the Rules of Procedure, I give an explanation, that you know the rules of the Rules of Procedure and Mrs. Komic will one day surely lead the session and will not be able to meet you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: You are wrong. Check the time. So time is spent. I am very sorry and it is impossible at all, in this Rules of Procedure, to discuss and extend the possibility of addressing any member of Parliament. Believe me, I'm having trouble with everyone because I'm giving you a few seconds more. The word is Mr. Zoran Babic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1060	Thank you, Madam President. This amendment is not acceptable for SNS for two reasons. One reason is that he doesn't really define what the government's obligation is clear to do by the end of this year. I would like to, and I am sure that the amendmentr with its long-standing parliamentary experience, with the knowledge of Parliament, will finally take over not only the legislative, but also the control role, which this very law on amendments and amendments to the law, without any corrections, without any amendments adopted, foresees, and that this Parliament in 30 days or 90 days, in 150 days each of us Members of Parliament can ask whether the parliamentary question, whether the Government question - what have you done in these 30 days, what have you done on 15 June? On June 15th, did all the creditors hand over their accounts, hand over documentation confirming that companies in restructuring owe them? In 90 days we will be able to ask – what have you, gentlemen of the Privatisation Agency, done and what suggestions have you made to settle these debts? This is the efficiency that this Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS is seeking, not to wait until the end of the year, so we ask ourselves at the end of the year if something could have been done faster or slower or different, and on the other hand we can consume the control role that this Parliament has, and I am sure that the amendment promoter will agree with me, because we have debated it several times here and here, but also on different bodies and agreed that as MPs, as Parliament, what we have voted on, and we are voting on laws, and the laws are as children, and that it is not enough just to give birth and let them go, we have to control them a little bit, to grind, to edit, until they live in the form in which we want to live. On the other hand, I think that this solution is more a matter of one system law that we're going to talk about in this house in the coming weeks, that this kind of solution may be an integral part of the privatisation law, but this privatisation law, other than the deadlines we're discussing today under the amendments, I think it has to redefine the privatisation process and the conditions for privatisation, has to limit the deadline within which the privatisation has to be completed. This law on the privatisation of the sea, and it is necessary to reduce discretion and discretion in making decisions to a minimum and to define precisely the role of the State and the role of the Privatisation Agency. Here are some issues that can be very confusing for investors in Serbia, whether they domestically, whether foreign investors, both Serbia and the state and government are not making a difference. Two misunderstandings have come up. The first concern and the question raised by opposition colleagues – is there a market economy or a conducting economy here? What the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants, what the SNS wants, is to make a good business environment and to win the best, not the most expensive, as it has happened in many public procurement processes in the City of Belgrade, but throughout Serbia. For this reason, the SNS also proposed in the previous meeting a Law on Public Procurement, which is the pride of the previous government, because in this way we corrected many irregularities in our society, but also left a lot of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Another concern, which is not less burdensome, is the replacement of the thesis that privatisation is a terrible process. Privatisation is a process that needs to be done, which is necessary to complete. Any of the political options that he was in power at the time of the privatisation had to implement the procedure until the end, but what makes people in Serbia feel terrible and what my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group have been talking about in individual cases, according to their municipalities and cities, I have been polluted. Who polluted him? He was polluted by those who carried out the privatisation process. He was polluted by those who carried out those 24 controversial privatisations. It was polluted by those who allowed the money of drug dealers to be laundered without control and to become owners of tens of thousands of acres of oracies in Vojvodina. The process is polluted by those people who are part of some judicial proceedings and processes precisely because of such privatisation processes. It is polluted by all those who have allowed themselves to be free of control, in an extremely non-transparent privatisation process, to easily reach the building land, to the hall, and to keep people out of work, to make production stop. That is why my colleague Martinovic, in Saturday's debate, very well defined this conditionally successful privatisation because the 28 successful privatisations continued the process of production. Without production, there is no future for any state, nor for Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party, the government of the Republic of Serbia, insists on economics. That's why we don't mind waking up, getting up and working at half-eight. That's why we don't mind coming to our private cars, not having assistant secretaries in the ministries have their cars and our drivers. I apologize for being so affected by this measure. I apologize for the Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia now coming to work with their cars. I apologize for saving the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not only not enough, but because according to the resources of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia... (President: I ask the MP to speak about the amendment. )......................................................................................................... We have to treat each other domestically. The reasons why this amendment is unacceptable to the Serbian Progressive Party are why we will vote against the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1061	Are any of the MPs still answering? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I want to speak.) You don't have time. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I am the bearer of the amendment. I have 15 minutes as an authorised representative. You've already spoken. Mrs. Comic isn't here to help you. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Zoric. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: what does this look like.) It looks like the Rules of Procedure you've brought in before. Please do not shout because I will really approach the sanctions that exist in the Rules of Procedure and which restrict the MPs from insulting the chairman and yelling at the chairman. Dr Gordana Zoric, if she wants a word, if we don't move on to the next amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1062	I want to, thank you. The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, this amendment is unacceptable because any delay in solving the problem introduces new problems for the company operating in Kovin, and from which I come. Citizens of the Kovin municipality, as well as workers who work at the Kovin Mine, who are in the restructuring process, expect me not to support this amendment because for months and years they have been living under one tension in the care of the fate of their company. The problem is in the next, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, Mine Covin belongs to one of the companies that can be saved because the Mine is operating, manages to serve its current obligations, does not live on subsidies, which is very significant, but is burdened with debts that occurred in the period when it was privately owned, and these debts amount to about 400 million dinars. Out of that nearly two-thirds, about 265 million dinars, are actually debts towards state-owned companies, primarily according to the EPS 135 million, the Waters of Vojvodina 43, the Regional Secretariat 52, etc. It is very important for Kovin to be saved from the collapse because 120 workers and at least 400 people, members of the family, live from it, but it is also one of the few companies operating in the territory of the Kovin municipality, and it has, in addition to that economic significance, a symbolic importance, because in some ways the engine of existence, so to speak, is the citizens of the Kovin municipality. It used to be a sugarcane that, thanks to poor privatisation, stopped working and thus about 400 and some workers stayed on the street. So I appeal to the government, I appeal to the minister that, the fact that Mine Covin can be saved just because he's doing business, means he doesn't live off subsidies, helps solve the issue as quickly as possible, and that they can normally work without tension and make a profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1063	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. You have the right in time for the parliamentary groups, not as a proposing amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1064	I had that right five minutes ago when you denied it to me. I'm glad you saw the mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1065	I didn't make a mistake. I have to react, you have the right to your 15 minutes as an authorised representative, and as an amendment promoter, two minutes have been spent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1066	I really don't see why this amendment is making any kind of dispute. We said the Constitutional Court in November brought a certain measure with a delayed fact. We're sitting today and we're sitting here on Saturday to get there before that deadline to finish this amendment to the law. We're only proposing to extend the weapons. So we're giving the government space for about a month and a half to arm the time and know what time it's gonna end. For what? Last year, during the summer, an Action Plan was adopted, which meant that by June this year we would complete the procedure. Now we're moving that time and we're just looking and we're giving you a chance to have about a month and a half more. It's completely irrelevant what happened in the history of privatisation compared to what we want to make possible. We've been listening here today to sell first those companies that are quality, but how we think they're different. Tell me, how do you think these enterprises that are being restructured or the restructuring is being completed, which companies are you going to sell first? Is it the one who has a buyer, or the one who doesn't have a buyer? So it's a market economy. If you think someone's coming to buy a company that doesn't have a chance to recover, that won't happen. On the other hand, you said there was no example that a company was publicly invested, that capacity was raised and that today it is on the market and that there could be more money. I told you in the hallway, I want you to hear both the public and fellow MPs, in a very appropriate discussion. Telekom is a company that was sold in 1997. It is the government in which the Democratic Party was the majority that bought the same number of shares and returned it to the Telecom Public Enterprise Fund, which today belongs to Serbia, to be sold now at a higher price. It's not just "Fiat". There are a number of good privatisations, as it is quite true that there are also those that are very bad. But what's the problem? The problem is that today we compare the time of the 1990s to the second decade of the 21st century. That's the point. That's why he was supposed to be Minister of Business here today. He's a man who needs to answer us whether he thinks that the model of functioning of a company in social property in the 1990s and 1980s is appropriate and that it was possible for the number of these workers to survive in these enterprises in a situation where the country with 20 million and some seven million is reduced to? The same "Jumko" could sew, not only for the Serb army, but for the entire Yugoslav army, which was six times bigger. It didn't happen. We don't think it's all about negative criticism. So we want to talk. We have certainly something to offer. We have a lot of examples. It's not true that there are only 28 successful privatisations. There are many more successful privatisations. After all, in that period, the GDP increased 300%, 25% annually. During that period, salaries were raised ten times. During that period, Serbia's exports increased four times. During that period, Serbia's debt remained the same 14 billion and 300, 14 billion and 700, for those 12 years. Unbound by governments, and we all know that Vojislav Kostunica also had a government that was your coalition partner and supported the minority SPS. It's not all about constant criticism, and there's no need for us to get into trouble all the time when we can talk. We think this thing is necessary. We said that we thought that you had enough time, there were two ministers, and today a third, to prepare one comprehensive, serious law and we are very aware that enterprises in restructuring are very difficult cancer wounds of our society and state. But what's also the problem is that those who expect to realise their claims from these companies are waiting to hear when the deadline is when they can do so. No one here has brought forward how many companies that have functioned have been shut down due to these debts. We have 56,000 workers working in these 164 companies, and nobody's talking about how many healthy companies are in trouble today because these companies that owe them are in restructuring. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, you were just talking about the defense system. I'm glad you brought that up. It is true that the rolling stock is one of the very high systems in the defense system. Nothing less is NIS, but it is the same, experts will tell you, that Telecom is also the top interest of the defence system, and we heard here that the prime minister is planning to put "Telecom" on sale. There are countries that don't have their own rolling stock, that don't even have a huge industry, or their own private telecom companies. That's why their safety isn't compromised. After all, a small number of countries in Europe have even a state-owned defence industry and that is a matter of the market and in those countries when buying military, police or security structures choose the most favourable price and disagree with one thing the colleague said, which is that in the past the most expensive was bought. The law on public procurement, which you have brought, has promised to save 600m euros. The prime minister said in the exposé that he saved 100 million. I'm telling you he didn't save anything. This law has only made it impossible to implement public procurement plans in all systems under that law, and that is not good. For what? Because systems also supply domestic production. We have practically blocked the procurement process by this law and therefore blocked the process of producing the work that is necessary for the functioning of the state administration or public enterprises. I'm not going to tell you exact data about hospitals where 51% of the necessary resources are not available for a year because of the Public Procurement Act. It's not a save you don't buy anything. It's not even savings when you buy something cheaper. It's very important to weigh in on the purchase. I'm sure that in your ministry when you buy something you look at both in terms of quality, both at the price and at the possibility of a general program in our country and at the possibility of service. It all affects, like when a man goes to the store and doesn't buy the cheapest hair dryer because he knows it lasts for two months, he's picking out his own pocket the quality he needs, and that's something that needs to be explained because the way we talk here turns out that the state only needs to buy the cheapest stuff. Then what happens? If we buy the cheapest, most invaluable things for the state, why don't we buy for the house? What is the quality and price of quality and measure of quality? I'm saying this well-intentioned by trying to draw attention to my colleagues that it's not all spoken out of opposition in a poor context compared to power. We were five and a half years in power. We know what the problems are. We know what the problem with governance is and we advise you not to get into the same problems we've been in, and that's what's happening right now. That's what I'm drawing your attention to. I'd like to talk to you here when you're either one of those enterprises in restructuring, whether you're going to sell the worst or the best. You'll sell what's best because it'll have a demand. That's how companies sold themselves before. You can't dictate on the market that the company will sell unless there's a buyer. Here it was said that someone had the privilege of obtaining cheaper building land. It is now announced the possibility of receiving free building land and primary, secondary to municipal equipment. How is it possible, if it's a criticism, on the one hand, that it can't even be done at good prices, how can someone get free and who can get free, and the other can't at good prices? You have a contradiction between you government and a parliamentary group that supports you, and I know why. The desire is to transfer all the burden of bad things to the former government, but it no longer drinks water, as Mr Nikolic, president, would say. Done. It's time for something to be realized now. Is FAP, whether it's "Jumko", whether it's state intervention or not, but it worked. Let's do something that worked to support it. In the meantime, raise something else to make it work, not to stop everything and talk about how in the '80s there were 20,000 people or 1990s working in a factory. They had a salary of 25 marks. Fantastic. It didn't work. If it was working, it wouldn't break up. It's not about you and me. You were younger than me, and I was a kid back then. What didn't work, and we're building now, not from zero, but from minus. We don't respect the war problems of the 1990s and everything that's happened and everything that's been ruined in that industry that's been said that I don't know how many workers have worked, but it's seeing what happened in 2000 and where it all started. We managed to get $75 million from the defence industry in 2007, and in 2009, $250 million. Three and a half times more. Let's back it up. And that's the public sector. Often when you criticise why you don't say there's a self-income public sector, which is necessary and which is great and which brings some money, and there's some administration for which citizens can't understand what the public sector is. When we talk about the public sector, we also don't take that those who work in Krusik, the factories are the public sector, and the flag trucks, the flag of arms, are the same public sector. Citizens understand that we have 700,000 of some administrators sitting in chairs, using official cars, having secretaries. Far from it. One more thing, it has nothing to do with the amendment, but I'm using time. In 2006, there was a state union and military and customs and the NSP were on a federal level. Since 15 May 2007, all these institutions have been part of the republican government. At that moment, the number of members of the public sector is increasing. For what? Where could they have gone? They existed there, only they could not be shown through the figures of the Republic of Serbia, but through the figures of the SCG, and before that Yugoslavia etc. I'd like you as government authorities to finally give what it is for you public sector and where the 770,000 people are, are they really people who do just administrative work. I know they're not. Explain this because there is obviously a huge problem because a situation has been made that everyone in the public sector is practically under a lot of observation and other citizens hate them for no reason, because they too do heavy jobs, a large part of the heavy work for small wages, while still suffering some insults and hatreds and MPs treat them as if they are guilty of working in city cleanliness. It's something that needs to be explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1067	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. I'm just asking the Minister for the Amendment. Try everything we've heard...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1068	I thank the chairman. I will talk about the amendment, but since I am here a representative of the proposings, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is my duty to stand in the protection of the government in those parts where something is said that is incomplete or incorrect. In full respect of what the predecessor said, an example was given, an excellent example, that the state bought part of the shares in Telecom. Let's not forget, Telecom was already in the majority ownership of the state before, and I don't remember much of the example where 49% of the share in equity was sold, as it was done in 1997 with Telecom. Can someone give me more examples of where we sold a minority stock package as a state, sell it successfully? Serbia then sold 49% of the stock, while retaining 51%. Disguise me with argument. Where do we argue and spin around in circles? Speaking of FAP and Jumko, you say it worked. We can also go to 2000 and say something else – it worked. But it didn't work that way. It's our problem that something didn't work in a sustainable way because if it had worked in a sustainable way, it could still work without a state subsidy. The particular problem of restructuring companies is that they cannot function without state subsidies anymore. One of those moments of operating without subsidies is shared by the light year, and one of them is really little. This is little to achieve in this future period in order to get them out of the dubiosis. When I said – something was sold that was worth, it was not controversial, you will find it easier to find a buyer for what it was worth, but it is an indication that the concept of privatisation was not planned, because it is sometimes good that what it brings is still in its possession, because it does not make losses. From there, you'll be able to make money that you can pump somewhere else to make a profit, not a loss. That's our difference in essence. Once again I say, we are not questioning at all whether privatisation should be carried out or not, whether it should be implemented, the question is how? Indeed, with the intention of not creating replicas, we understood each other about key things. I think I needed to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1069	Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that, if needs are to be done today, after 18.00 hours, the longest time before the completion of the initial search on the third item of the agenda, given the need for the National Assembly to adopt acts from the agenda of the sitting as soon as possible. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1070	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable National Assembly Presidents, the Serbian Government has proposed to the National Assembly to reject our second amendment to Article 2 of this Privatisation Act. I have carefully read the government’s argument on the basis of which it proposes to the National Assembly to reject our amendment and by reading that argument, I have concluded three additional things. It is one thing for the Government to propose to the National Assembly this bill to degrade the Constitutional Court of Serbia and the adoption of this draft law amending the Law on Privatisation of the National Assembly will participate in the degradation of the Constitutional Court. The second thing I've concluded by reading carefully this explanation is next. This government, as I understand it, is proposing that today's adoption of this bill violates the Constitution in a similar, not identical way, as was already done in December 2007, which is why the Constitutional Court has already intervened here. Third, it is necessary and I think it will be evident today or tomorrow, to initiate the mechanism before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of this law when it is adopted. My key question to all people who appear on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the assembly majority is – what will be the basis for defending the adoption of this bill if and when the Constitutional Court decides that this law is unconstitutional? What argument does that make, for example? Mr. Martinovic, and Mr. Selakovic to defend his position? How will we measure their responsibility in that situation? There's one thing that's good, for respect's sake, is that the majority of this bill doesn't feel like technicality, and that's what I want to point out here in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1071	National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1072	Madam Chairman, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2(2), but because of the viewer, I have to read Article 1 first, which is "In 30 days from the date of entry into force of this law, the confidence of the privatisation entity in the restructuring is required for the Agency to submit requests for payment of claims with a solution on enforcement, enforcement and other documents proving their claims to the privatisation entity in the restructuring in order to record the claim". That's what's absolutely not controversial. The second position of the same member states "At 90 days from the date of expiry of the period referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the Agency will record submitted payment requests, determine the amount of the claim for each creditor from the privatisation entity in the restructuring and draw up a proposal to settle the claim to be delivered to the creditors". That's what we think may be controversial and why I suggested that this deadline be replaced by 90 by 120. Why do I say that? I believe that it should stand for 120 days and that it should be more practical. Just imagine one piece of information, which is when 150 or 160 companies start to get data from thousands and thousands of creditors, what it's going to look like at the Privatisation Agency that hasn't been celebrated in years before. My second amendment, which is very important, is in Article 2 paragraph 3 after the word "in 30" is replaced by "60". Why does it matter? I will read this point ‘In the course of 30 days from the expiry of the deadline laid down in Article 2(2), it is possible to declare whether they are in agreement with the Agency’s proposal’. I believe that the 30-day deadline is quite short and that it would be more acceptable to be 60, because I already said in the principle debate that trustees can be, and I know specific cases, foreign legal persons where the procedure of the plea can be more complicated and longer than when it comes to domestic legal persons. That is why I would ask all my fellow Members to support this amendment when the vote is held, because I believe that he will simplify the whole story.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1073	Time, two minutes and thirty and a few seconds, so I'm gonna take your time from the parliamentary group. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ciric and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1074	Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the amendment is our assessment that practically this bill introduces the powers of the law on bankruptcy and surrender to the Privatisation Agency. With information on how the 30-day deadlines will run, so 90 days of proposing how those who have executive judgments or whatever you want to call to collect their claims, how they're going to agree with the Privatisation Agency. Both de facto and de jure are parts and procedures of the bankruptcy law. We heard the argument that there were cases like this and that the Agency was already working. However, it was a completely different kind of business. The agency sometimes took over such powers when it came to whoever privatized the company, and here the case is quite different. Will there be an amendment to the Law on the Privatisation Agency? The bill of law was in the procedure and as introduced by V.D. The privatisation manager will be able to do so, as such powers are practically granted to him after changes and additions to the law. We think that this is not good and that it is very important to take care of what is actually going to happen at the Privatisation Agency and with all the good intentions of reaching a solution. When I say that it's easy to listen to nice words about the agency doing it, to stay convincing or to become convincing, I'll just tell you how easy and nice it was to hear how we had great banks in the '90s. Great banks, they almost didn't give credit, and they didn't give credit because they weren't liquid. (President: Time. ) And that is why I would ask that this amendment be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1075	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Marko Djurisic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (National Ambassador Gordana Komic, from the place: Please just turn off my microphone, as time is running out. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1076	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Our amendment refers to a 90-day reduction, as proposed by this law, which provides for the Agency to make a record of the applications submitted within 90 days, determine the amount of the claim and make a motion to settle the claim. Our proposal is that the deadline be 60 days. We thought that a significant part of this data in the Agency already exists, and that simply so far the Agency had to have for this one number, if not all entities at the end of the privatisation process, or in the restructuring process, this data. Given the government's desire and intention to deal quickly with the problems, as a colleague here said - to roll up our sleeves and do the job that is ahead of us as soon as possible, in this sense we have proposed to cut this deadline. Unfortunately, the government has not accepted and considers this 90-day deadline, as proposed by the law, according to the government, to be optimal, realistic and sufficient. A similar explanation was also for the refusal of counterpart Jovanovic's amendment, which proposed a somewhat longer term. What I'd like to say is that it seems to me that this whole debate on deadlines, which we've been having over the last few hours of today's debate, is pointless, because we have an announcement, we heard it this morning on the Committee, the adoption of a new law on privatisation in the next 30 days, when the bill will be completed, and then some sort of debate and announcement that by mid-July this law will be here and adopted. I suppose, or I'm sure that this new law will then and quite differently set all these things and deadlines... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... So I'm afraid we've spent a lot of energy and time talking about some deadlines that probably won't even happen in real life, but will be extended by a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1077	Thank you. What amendment are you reporting for? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1078	Chairman, I don't think you should have interrupted Mr. Djurisic since he had the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1079	He has to point it out, you know it very well, you're an old MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1080	I'm going to say something, the Honorable President, the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about the NDS' position on this bill. He was clear. In the principle debate, we pointed out that we would not support this law, first of all for the reason we believe that there should be a more comprehensive solution to privatisation. As Djurisic said, a new law is expected within the next month or two days. We were ready, and we are ready now to participate in all discussions on both economic issues and financial conditions in the state, including the state of the enterprises involved in restructuring, but we are not ready to participate in pointless discussions. In fact, if it was a message that we should sit in this assembly and sleep, to pass laws that would make Serbian citizens better, it does not mean that we should politicise topics and discuss two members in the morning so that we seem to be in an election campaign. I don't think it's a good thing that's how he behaves, both the position and the part of the opposition. The new democratic party will see it offer concrete solutions, challenge the bad solutions offered by the government, but also be critical of the opposition's views that offer no better solutions, but are there to practically waste time, even saying there is only one opposition... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1081	Be nice, you're talking about the amendment. I won't have any more tolerance, because we're going back to the general debate. Just about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1082	That's exactly what I want to talk about. Our proposal for an amendment, which Mr Djurisic spoke of, is going towards raising the efficiency of state bodies, in this case the Agency, which we believe should also contribute to the acceleration of reforms, including the restructuring of companies in the process. We believe that they should work longer and longer, and that, instead of the proposed deadline, they might be able to complete the process in a shorter time. Because this is where the MPs will sit all day, if some ministries and agencies are going to slow down the process. That's what I was talking about, Madam Chairman, when I said we had to be more efficient, and you interrupted me, even though I called for efficiency, and before that you didn't, of course, talk to the minister and don't listen to me, you didn't point out that MPs were talking about things that aren't on the agenda. Now you can probably hear me. So I think that you, as chairman and ruling coalition, should support our amendment, which requires greater efficiency of state bodies, in this case of the mentioned agency. I hope that Mr. Minister, who was quite well involved in the debate on economic issues, although it seems to me, he or the chairman, has promised that today there will be a fiery baptism here and a minister of economy. He's gone. One of the chairmans said it, or someone in the ruling coalition, I must have heard it well, that he was abroad, and that he would probably be here today before us. We'd like to hear from him as he sees the issue of restructuring public enterprises, or enterprises in restructuring, but it seems to me that you're doing well in the area, so if the Minister of Business doesn't show up... (President: This really has nothing to do with the amendment anymore, believe me.) ... Good, it's possible that you can adequately replace it. Anyway, if you don't support this amendment, we won't be able to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1083	Thank you. Indeed, no chairman has said that today the Minister of Economy will be present here, but you will have opportunities, a set of laws concerning the economy is coming soon. Members of the 2nd amendment were brought together by MPs Zoran Babic and Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. No one's answering for a word. Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1084	The chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, submitted together with counterpart Zlata Djeric the amendment to Article 2 because I felt that the amendments and additions of this law should have a very clear and precise solution to the subjects, the creditors of the subjects of privatisation who do not submit, should initiate a mandatory enforcement procedure within 30 days. They are supposed to do so within these 30 days, but the legal dilemma is raised and the question of what happens to them if they do not, which is their status. We have proposed an amendment to sanction the failure of 30 days by the loss of the right to initiate any coercive enforcement procedure while only enforcement remains undeniable. Such credentials are practically equated with state confidence when it comes to the payment process in accordance with the legal provision in Article 20z. 2. However, the Government stated in its argument that the adoption of this amendment would again introduce to the small door the provision of a law that the Constitutional Court found contrary to the Constitution, because now the failure of a 30-day period would be sanctioned by the loss of the right to initiate an enforcement procedure, which, by analogy with the opinion of the Constitutional Court, would again constitute a restriction on the Constitution of a guaranteed right to the peaceful and uninterrupted enjoyment of property. However, if such a solution remains an open question, why is the start date of 30 days for submission of requests and what about creditors who, for any justified or unjustified reason, miss the deadline. I think we definitely have a legal void here. Secondly, it is questionable whether an analogy can be withdrawn with a disputed provision of the law, because in it the right is limited... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1085	You've wasted your time. Thank you. After we've completed our search of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed the debate on the first item of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may set a vote day on a draft law, shall be immediately upon the completion of the examination of the bill. In accordance with this provision, I determine Monday, 12 May 2014, starting at 14.00 hours as the day for voting on the first item of the agenda of this session, i.e. the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work by deciding on the 1st item of the agenda - a proposal for a Law amending the Law on Privatization. In order to be able to approach the vote, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 182 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Privatisation Act in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – nine, abstention – three, did not vote – five of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 2, with a correction, which was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, abstentioned – one, had voted 174 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – two, abstentions – there are no, 188 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ciric and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 180 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 189 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac, Goran Ciric and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, abstentioned—two, voted 182 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for –10, no one, with abstentions, voted 183 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Marko Djurisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – voted 183 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstention – voted 181 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you it's Article 3. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 178, against – four abstentions – there is no vote, not 13 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Privatisation Act, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 180, v – 10, abstentions – four, one of the 195 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Privatisation. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision on discharge and the appointment of Members and Deputy Members of the Republic of Election Commission You have received a proposal for a decision made by MP Zoran Babic. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to article 193 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission. Does the promoter, MP Zoran Babic, want a word? (No) Do the officials of the committees want a word? Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1087	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SDA MP Sandzak PDD has tabled a proposal on a decision to appoint members and deputy members of the Republic Election Commission. According to the proposal submitted for the minority parliamentary club SDA Sandzak PD, the post of deputy member of the Republic Election Commission is envisaged. However, what has not been taken into account in this case is that several important facts have been skipped and we propose that the Assembly take these facts into account and that this change the principle of distribution for the composition of the Republic Election Commission. Our proposal is that minority parties who have their own parliamentary club by automatedity belong to the RIK member and that minority parties who are not part of a parliamentary club by automation belong to the deputy member of the RIK. We are looking for an amendment to this principle because in this existing minority proposal, they are placed in an inferior position and this principle of distribution is discriminated against by minority parliamentary parties. For example, the weakest majority list to be included in this parliament has 18 parliamentary mandates, while the strongest minority list has six parliamentary mandates. Therefore, minorities cannot be treated with a numbering model, i.e. a 250 quota, because in this way the minority parties cannot compete with the majority and that is, as you can all notice, one obvious type of discrimination. So far, practice with committees and other assembly bodies has been saying that there is currently not enough understanding for the needs of minority parliamentary parties, because so far, in all ways, there is a significant and maximum slave space in this House of Representatives. I call upon you to take these suggestions into account, because otherwise such a proposal for us representing in this minority parliament is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1088	I thank MP Imamovic for his discussion. I took into account his memo, but you didn't formalize everything you said through the amendment, so we can't vote on it right now. Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1089	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, at the beginning of this term, we received a proposal as head of parliamentary groups for the selection of committee delegations and a proposal for a new RIK composition, where it is foreseen that the RIK assembly is shared between the parliamentary groups. The proposal, which is now formalised by proposing all parliamentary groups names for the composition of the RIK, lists a member of the Law on the selection of MPs, Article 29(4), which says that no political party, party coalition or other political organisation can have more than half of the members in the permanent composition of all election bodies. Unfortunately, we have not had the opportunity to discuss this at the college, and our remark is that according to this proposal, the list that won the largest number of votes and mandates, "The future we believe in", has 34 members of the RIK, 20 members in this proposal that is today ahead of us. I ask the question – what about this Article 29, paragraph 4, and what happens if someone challenges the RIK composition in some of the next elections? Of course, I understand that it can come as an argument that this is now divided by parliamentary groups, political parties, and we don't know what it will look like in some subsequent elections of the coalition's schedule and that it will go to these elections, but I'm afraid this one has entered a single area that can question the regularity of the elections that, when these elections happen, and there are some coalitions left and there are some coalitions, and the composition changes, someone can question the regularity of the election. I just want to say something about what can happen when it comes to the regularity of the election. Two years and a few days ago, the current president and prime minister of our country, on the steps ahead of this parliament, came out of a sack of ballots and said it was the biggest theft that took place in the history of Serbian multilaterals, that it took place in all 9,000 polling stations, that it participated as the employer, Boris Tadic, that it was conducted by DS and other parties in the coalition. That's not where you care. At that time, the current president of the state said that it was known that hundreds of thousands of ballots were printed in Poland...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1090	Please return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1091	I'm talking about exactly what happens if we have irregular elections and doubts about the irregularity of the election. I didn't finish my presentation. I speak in principle. Please allow me to speak for the rest of my life.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1092	Yeah, but don't talk about the choices behind us. We're talking about the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1093	I'll explain why I'm saying this right now. I am speaking because the proposal that we have before us today contains six members of the 2012 RIK who were then accused of not implementing the elections under the law. I'm asking MPs now, all of us, how are we going to follow those charges that have never been proven...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1094	I'm glad you said that. Don't let us characterise people here in parliament if they haven't done anything by any authority, unless they have a verdict.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1095	I'm talking about the fact that the authorities didn't do it, and I'm talking about it a few times in today's hearing, the Justice Minister was talking about responsibility...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1096	Don't let us go back to the agenda we voted on. I ask the MPs not to abuse the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1097	We want to talk about how this government is going to fight for responsibility, for a public statement. That's exactly what I'm talking about. (President: The Proposer is an MP. ) Publicly accused people of committing serious crimes. The president said that the electoral theft organiser should no longer be involved in politics, but should not be at large. The way he put it, I was the head of the DS election headquarters at the time, so I shouldn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1098	I'll take your word for it if you keep speaking beyond the agenda. There's no correctness.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1099	Where are the people who were accused of various serious things by then the candidates, now the president of the state and the prime minister. I don't know what's not true in my speech and where I insult someone in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1100	Please stick to the agenda theme. You saw what the first item of the agenda looked like when all the presidents allowed it to talk about whatever the MPs wanted. Please speak specifically.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1101	I'm not talking about anything. I'm talking about the agenda. It is on the agenda to elect members of the RIK. Let me warn you that you're wasting your time... ) I am starting to believe that this composition, as proposed, is not in line with the law, because the party coalition, which took place in the elections, has 20 out of 34 members, and the law clearly says that no political party, the party coalition, can have more than half of the members in the permanent composition of all the bodies. That also applies to RIK. I'm talking about what happens when the legality of the RIK is challenged and I'm talking about a specific situation that we've all witnessed. I'm asking you to give me the right to take advantage of the time I have at my disposal, explain and talk about the subject. I haven't spoken anywhere beyond the subject of how much political discussion can be conducted. I'm sorry, I wanted to talk about this at the College. We didn't get a chance to talk about this at the College. Now that I have the first chance to talk about it, I had to say it here. This series of RIKs, if we look at the next points of the agenda, will deal with elections, if we adopt that law, for the advice of national minorities. Perhaps in the future he will be involved in some other choices.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1102	Please return to the topic. Now we've already moved to the agenda point that we haven't at all...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1103	I am talking about RIK, which should have various elections, other than elections for MPs and presidents of the Republic, now implements, as you propose, and I believe it will be adopted. I'm talking about, if this is the way the composition and proportions are proposed, it's going to be a matter of election regularity, and the regularity of the election when it was last brought to the public's attention, it's had serious consequences and uncertainty and the announcement of gatherings, protests on the street. I want us to avoid it. I want this proposal withdrawn, to comply with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, so we don't have the situations we've had in the past again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1104	For the sake of the public, I received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, which discussed the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the RIK, submitted by MP Zoran Babic, and I believe that the proposal for a decision is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. As for the College, I am obliged to all MPs, the heads of all parliamentary groups attended, this topic was not delegated by any member of the College to discuss, the truth is working. I give my word to Proposer Zoran Babiæ, since no one else has answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1105	Thank you, Madam President. I really believe I live in a country where strong institutions, where everyone does their job, where politicians don't press charges, but prosecutors file charges. I believe I live in a country where I know whose powers are, so it was a bit of a silly interpretation of the previous speaker that someone couldn't be a member of the RIK, because at some point he was accused by the current president of the state and the Prime Minister. The indictments are filed by prosecutors, investigated by investigative and police authorities, and I believe that this is the only way we can be arranged, decent and normal. I wouldn't want any gestures in this room, or anywhere, to burden any court proceedings that are under way. We have witnessed many times so far when politicians and politicians, tycoons and businessmen ordered arrests, ordered indictments, accounted for, accounted for through the state, dealt with inexperiences or those who disturbed them in the pursuit of interest. Recalling some years in which our colleague returned us, I think that after some campaigns and after things were said and about Tomislav Nikolic, and about Alexander Vukic, some people in Serbia should really be ashamed. Some who formed such a campaign. Some who used to refer to such words. Some who convinced the public of something had nothing to do with the truth, and all for the sake of staying in power, boasting in that same government. Because they thought the government was fate. As for another criticism, which is addressed here for SNS, Serbia is one colorful and beautiful garden. Serbia cultivates and cultivates and prides itself on diversity and national and religious and any other differences. I think it's the quality and potential of our society. That in the future we have witnessed many ugly things in those trenches that we have dug between us, proving to ourselves to whom, the diversity of our society and our national, and religion, and all other things are value, potential and something that as a state, as a society, as a people, we are proud. I don't accept that it came from the speech of an esteemed colleague that someone is entitled to the deed to national minorities. The SNS is in one dialogue, which leads with all representatives of political parties, and this dialogue is necessary and will take place in the future, and we have come to a solution. The part of RIK, as a member of RIK, is also representatives of SVM, who are representatives of national minorities. That is why I cannot accept the generalisation of this country's relationship with national minorities, and I think we will be discussing the National Minority Councils Act in the afternoon. A law that is indeed a good, quality law, and that is not only said by the government, as a proposer, but also by representatives of national minorities. Only people who have reached out in the past may be able to disrupt and perhaps correct election results can view the future in this way. For SNS, election results are sacred, and then when they are good, and when they are less than expected for a political option, but they are sacred because they are the voice of the people, because they show the will of the citizens of Serbia, and we are here because of these same citizens of Serbia, and not just because of us. That is why the RIK composition paints electoral will, paints respect for both the law and the constitution, and certainly does not constitute preparation for some new arguments and for some new alibis for poor election results or for not accepting the policy you are running for Serbian citizens, and then it may be RIK's fault, which absolutely does not stand. The RIK's work has so far been extremely transparent, extremely public and I invite them to this way and work in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1106	The word is by MP Enis Imamovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1107	I asked for the right to a replica. Thank you. One of the strong arguments for this proposal to include RIK, at the level of members, representatives, or minority parties, who are part of parliamentary clubs, is this very future Law on elections for national councils. As you know, as foreseen in this draft, which we will be pleased to discuss in the follow-up session on the amendment and addition of the National Councils Act, these elections will be held by the RIK. In this proposal for the RIK composition, you provided for a deputy member for the SDA parliamentary club Sandzak PD. Minority parties have come to this parliament with a hard time, thanks to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs by which there is no censorship for the selection of MPs from minority lists, and thus I come up with the main criticism that I have at the expense of my predecessor's speech, which is that some parties cannot have a wallpaper on the minority issue. I say that minority parties and how they have the deed to deal with minority issues because by law and by the Constitution of this country they are registered and authorized to deal with the issue of national minorities. I simply don't want to believe that my esteemed colleague wanted to deny it constitutionally and legally to the parties of national minorities. Therefore, the parliamentary parties of national minorities and how they have the deed to deal with minority issues and will deal with whatever space they will get, even though it is one of your main criticisms.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1108	Thank you. MP Marko Djurisic. Replica. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1109	Thank you. I spoke exactly as someone who always accepted the will of the citizens as she was. From the party I came from and in the past where I was never challenged the official results of the RIK as opposed to your party. I was just talking about the case two years ago when RIK was attacked that she had not done her job in the way it was intended by law, that the accused party I was in was in then, that he was accused of being the organizer of all this. I want to say once again that I am absolutely ready, if the authorities want to investigate what was two years ago, and I believe that it is in the interest of all of us to make these serious accusations that were made clear to the end and that we do not have to go back and talk about what was and how was it, to make it clear. I'm absolutely making myself available to the state authorities. I'm not calling for immunity, and I'm asking for an examination of what my role was in that big election scam, as it was then said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1110	I'm concluding a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have conducted a single search on the second item of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may decide that the day for voting on a bill should be immediately after the examination of the bill is completed. In accordance with this provision, I designate Monday, 12 May 2014 starting at 14.31 p.m. as the day for voting on the 2nd item of the agenda of this session, i.e. the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission. Dear People's MPs, we continue our work by deciding on the 2nd item of the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission. In order to be able to approach the vote, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 179 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON A DECISION AND THE NAME OF THE MEMBER STATES AND OF THE REGIONAL COMMISSION MEMBER STATES As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 182, v – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – seven, of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission by majority of the votes of all MPs. Now in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, My rules of procedure set a regular break until 4:00 p.m. when we start with the next item on the agenda. [[After a break.]] According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you, in addition to the representatives of the promoters Dr. Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on National Minority Councils of National Minorities, and Nina Fira, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Danica Polic, Assistant at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Gordan Govedarica, an independent adviser at the Office for Human and Minority Rights. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principled search on the draft law. Does the proposing representative, Dr Kori Udovicki, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1112	Thank you. I welcome the president of the National Assembly. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the debate in principle allow me to make a few preliminary remarks on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. National councils of national minorities are a constitutional category and an instrument of cultural autonomy for national minorities. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, members of national minorities can choose national councils to exercise their right to self-government in culture, education, communication and official use of language and letters. This right of members of national minorities guaranteed by the Constitution shall be exercised in accordance with the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, which governs broad and diverse matter, starting with elections for national councils, the jurisdiction of national councils, the conduct of special electoral lists of national minorities and others. In order to address the problems encountered in the work and functioning of some national councils of national minorities, the Ministry has formed a special Working Group that has drawn up the draft of this law, given the recommendations of independent state bodies. I note that the representatives of the national councils were also members of this task force. In December 2013, after nearly half a year and more work on this draft, a public debate was held with the participation of relevant authorities of the state administration, independent state institutions, national councils, the civil sector, as well as international organisations. After discussions of objections and suggestions were held, they were considered and implemented in the proposal for this law that you see today before you. The purpose of the bill is, above all, to remove the weaknesses of the applicable law, and thus to consistently and clearly regulate the matter of the national councils of the national minorities. The terms of which the work of national councils depends, such as: the constitution of the National Council, the term of office of the National Council, the power of the National Council from the end of the term of office to the establishment of a new convene of the National Council, the disbandment of the National Council, and when regular and when extraordinary elections for members of the National Council, the registration and eradication of national councils from the National Council Registers, and so on. Administrative protection is guaranteed against all acts adopted by the State Administration, by the Ministry in the application of the law on national minority councils, which has not been clearly regulated in the applicable law. The Supreme Authority for conducting direct elections for the National Council becomes RIK, and to conduct elections through the Electoral Assembly, it becomes a committee of three members appointed by the RIK. It is also clearly distinguished when members of the National Council are elected directly and when they are elected at the Electoral Assembly. The direct regular elections for members of the national councils shall be held if more than 40% of the number of members of the national minority are registered in the special electoral list, according to the last census, and if not, regular elections shall be held through the electoral assembly. All regular elections are held on the same day, and the minister who is the only one empowered to call the elections makes a decision to call regular elections at the earliest 120 and no later than 90 days before the end of the national council's mandate, which was last established. The applicable law does not know the emergency elections for members of the National Council. Under the Bill's proposal for an early election, it is potentially coming when the national council is disbanded before its term of office is over, because the snap elections are not held every time the national council is disbanded. They shall not be maintained first when the disbanding of the National Council withdraws the removal of the National Council from the Register, but neither shall they remain for less than a year until the expiry of the National Council's term of office. In this last case, elections for a new National Council meeting are held at the same time as regular elections for other national councils. Extraordinary elections for members of the National Council always take place through the Electoral Assembly, even when the National Council convenes which has been disbanded in the direct elections. The term of office of the new National Council, which comes instead of a disbanded period, shall continue until the term of office has expired, which shall be disbanded. National Council of Constitutionals. When the mandates of all members of the National Council are confirmed, which is essential for legal certainty, since the applicable law has not precisely resolved the establishment of a national council. The mandate of the National Council begins to run since the constitution and lasts four years. The possible discrepancy between the end of the mandate of the current National Council and the constitution of the new National Council called for a norm under which the National Council to which the term of office has expired continues to work to establish a new call, performs ongoing and urgent tasks from the competence of the National Council, thereby guaranteeing the continuity of the work of the National Council. Disbanding the National Council leads to the education of the provisional managing body of the National Council and under the applicable law, it is not a newspaper. The applicable law does not limit the duration of the temporary management body's mandate, so it acts until a new national council is established after the elections. The draft law, which is before you, provides at the same time for the Minister to issue new emergency elections for the National Council within 60 days of the disbandment of the National Council and to be held within 45 days of the election date. Following the end of the snap elections, a new meeting of the National Council, whose mandate would continue to be the mandate of the disbanded National Council, is being established. That's why the temporary management body is really getting temporary. The exception exists when less than one year remains until the expiry of the period of office of the disbanded national council. Then it is not the snap elections that are being discussed, but the remainder of the term of office is being held by the temporary managing authority. New legal solutions, under which the early elections narrow down the period of operation of the temporary managing authority, allow the rights of members of the national minority to a national council to be more consistent and sustainable than ever before. The National Council shall give rise to all bodies whose national minority is competent. These are the president of the National Council, the committees of the National Council and the other working bodies of the National Council. The draft law also introduces the Executive Board. It is elected by the National Council on the proposal of the National Council president to the majority of the votes of all members of the National Council. The power and number of members of the Executive Board shall be governed by the Statute of the National Council. The draft law provides for only one but important competence of the Executive Board. The National Council may entrust the Executive Board with a decision on certain, therefore not all, issues from the competence of the National Council. They are objectively unable to make decisions that are important for the exercise of national minority rights within the short term ahead of them. Now, after transferring competence from the National Council to the Executive Board, it should be obtained at the speed of the decision whenever a short period or some other reasons prevents a timely call for a session of the National Council. At the same time, the issue of nature of decisions taken by the Executive Board was raised. This remains the decisions of the National Council, which is expressed by the norm under which the National Council decides at the first next session whether it will confirm the decisions made by the Executive Board between the two sessions of the National Council or not. The bill provides for the possibility of suspending elections for members of the National Council. The suspension of the elections has the effect of disbanding the national council, which then leads to the removal of the national council from the register. At the heart of all the reasons for the suspension of the election lies only and exclusively insufficient interest expressed by members of the national minority for the selection of members of the National Council. For example, elections are suspended if the electoral assembly cannot be maintained because the minimum number of electrics required is not confirmed, elections are suspended and if the assembly is not attended by the least required number of electricians whose applications have been confirmed, etc., that I do not list all the options. Of course, the disbandment of the national council occurs when the existing National Council is still working, waiting to be replaced by a new one. In the same settings, the same legislative motive is based on another new reason for disbanding national councils, and this is when the number of members of the National Council fell below half the number of members the national councils must have. A drop in the number of members of the council below half occurs only if the existing designated electoral lists do not allow the term of office of the council member to be replaced by the mandate of a new member of the council. The new term of office shall be assigned to the corresponding voter list. In this case, the National Council cannot make important decisions because there is no required number of members. As you can see, this is also about insufficient interest in members of the national minority or members of the council, but now for the work of the existing national council. The conditions for the establishment of a national council and thus the achievement of its competences and of the bodies arising from it are to enroll members of the minority in a special electoral list of national minorities. The existence of a special electoral list and the registration of individual members of the national minority in a special electoral list shall be based on the principle of volunteering. A special voter's list of national minorities is based solely on the request of members of the national minority elected by the ministry. The conditions for setting up a special voter list are liberal. The decision on a request for the establishment of a special voter's list is also in some way a recognition of the status of a national minority. An application for the establishment of a special polling list must support at least 5% of full-time members of the national minority according to the last census, with their number being less than 300. Oslonac, based on the creation of a national council, is therefore the results of the census. Secondly, the timely expression of membership to the national minority is a written statement expressing support for the creation of the electoral list. In addition to the conditions relating to the number of signatures supporting the creation of a special polling list, it is necessary to meet another condition, that in a specific case it is a national minority. The notion of a national minority determines the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, according to which the national minority within the meaning of this law is each group of SRJ citizens, this is a law of that time, which by number is sufficiently representative even though it represents a minority in the territory of the Republic and belongs to one of the groups of the population who are in a long-standing and solid relationship with the territory of the Republic and possess features such as language, culture, national or ethnicity, origin or religion, which distinguish the majority of the population and whose members are responsible for maintaining their common identity together, including culture, tradition, language or religion. The ministry's solution to decide whether a special electoral list is being educated is allowed for administrative and judicial protection. It is understood that only those national minorities who do not have a special electoral list on the date of entry into force of the new law are subject to the education of the special voter list, but it is nevertheless explicitly prescribed. I would also like to point out in the end that the provisions of the National Minority Councils Act, which the Constitutional Court found at its session held on 16 January 2014 are not in agreement with the Constitution, are not subject to this draft law. As the prime minister said in his exposé, the next period will be attended by changes and additions aimed at proposing this respected home a law that will regulate the rights of national minorities in the domain of achieving their cultural autonomy, which will be in agreement with the highest legal act. The need for this law to be adopted by an urgent procedure, without also considering the provisions which the Constitutional Court has found to be unconstitutional, stems from the fact that the existing law and the proposed amendments have established an obligation to conduct the elections in 2014. The adoption of this law would allow for the smooth implementation of the elections of national councils of national minorities and their constitution. At the end of this opening presentation, let me thank you for your attention and express my hope that, following the debate in principle and in particular, the proposed law will be passed, creating conditions for significant improvements in the election process for national councils of national minorities and the work of their authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1113	Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Meho Omerovic, rapporteur of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1114	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I think it is very important that, at the beginning of the work, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as one of the first laws, the Government of the Republic of Serbia offered to debate the Law on Councils of National Communities. Given the fact that Serbia is a multiethnic state, when it comes to the fact that we are candidates for EU membership, that we have opened talks and EU accession in chapters concerning human rights, freedom rights, religious freedoms and all that falls under segments 23, 24, 25 of the chapters that we open as a candidate country, it is also very important that one of the first laws on the agenda of the Republic of Serbia is this law. Why do I say that? I think it is primarily a good move by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that this shows a clear message, a clear signal and a good intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to pay very, very important attention to the position of minority rights and minority communities living in the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, it should be remembered that in October of this month, 2014, elections for the same advice of national communities living in Serbia should also be held, and it is therefore very important that we also have one law that regulates the rules, which will clearly and precisely determine what is necessary to participate in something called an election race for future authorities of the councils of national minorities, or minority communities living in Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has approached the amendments and additions of this law primarily by considering and looking at the problems encountered in the work or in the functioning of the council of the national communities in the past, above all in the part concerning the choice of the national community council's body and its functioning. So, for this reason, the government proposed additions to this law, because it was not clear enough and sometimes contradictoryly the past law regulated certain questions and did not have, to be open, clear or solid logical structure. I'm going to define that and show it through a few examples. It was a vague process to elect members of national councils, as elections were scheduled to be both direct and indirect through the electoral assembly. It was not clear when one or another election was held. On the other hand, the law we are amending also gave a vague procedure when it comes to electoral elections. There were vague relations between the authorities that were elected and who were conducting the elections. For example, the previous law envisaged, which is still valid, to be carried out by a central electoral commission whose permanent composition is determined by the resolute state administration and local self-government minister, a body that passes between the Central Election Commission and the Election Committee, an electoral commission for a particular electoral area. You will agree that there are many steps to determine what are rules of conduct and how to organise such significant and specific choices as elections for national minority bodies. On the other hand, it is not in the law that we have and that we are changing today, fortunately, a system of protection of the legality of the electoral procedure has been developed, because no legal remedy against the actions of the electoral commission, for example, has been envisaged. On the other hand, enrolment in the National Councils Register, which is now run by the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, has not been sufficiently detailed. For all these reasons that I have cited as examples, it is good and the purpose of amending and supplementing this law is to carry out consistently and clearly, in particular the concept of national councils, as instruments, I stress – as an instrument of national or cultural autonomy of minority communities living in Serbia, that precise offices and concepts depend on their work and introduce legal security and administrative legal protection. That is why this law also provides for the main law enforcement body to be RIK, in order to ensure the legality and regularity of the elections. At the very end, I wanted to point out that it is clear that there are differences in cases where members of the national councils are elected directly and when they are elected through the electoral assembly. For all these reasons, and the committee that I am chairing, for human, minority rights and gender equality, has, in principle, unanimously supported this draft law on the agenda at its session today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1115	Thank you. Do the presidents or representatives of political groups want a word? We don't have any reports. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1116	Dear Madam Minister, the Honorable Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this bill, which is in the assembly procedure on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils for Members of the SDA Sandzak, is not acceptable because it deals mainly with amendments and additions to those provisions concerning technical issues relating to enrolment in the register of national councils, related to the selection of national councils, etc. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the Law have not provided answers to a number of issues which are essential for the exercise of minority rights, i.e. no new mechanisms have been put in place to strengthen the position, status and role of national councils in the process of achieving those rights. The state of the Constitution through a series of laws directs members of national minorities to exercise their individual and collective rights through national councils, while on the other hand it does nothing to raise the status of national councils to an appropriate level. This proposal goes further than that, where does the state create a framework to erase and abolish national councils and to ask the question of how does this state want to take care of minorities if such legal solutions are diminished by the Constitution of this country? I'd like to remind you that he's a member of 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia requires the existence of national councils and therefore any legal solution that contains provisions that reduces this right is unacceptable under any conditions. We have submitted several amendments to this bill. To our amendments, to tell you the truth, we've been thinking about whether or not we can handle them, but we've tried to influence the essence of this bill, which is why we're trying to eliminate the negative consequences that would result from the application of certain members of this bill. Our intention is to introduce these amendments in a better and more efficient way the issue of minorities into institutional frameworks, and one of the proposals is to provide for the existence of a council of the Republic of Serbia for national minorities. The National Minorities Council was formed by the government Regulation in July, however, it has not yet been alive or carried out any tasks and tasks it was set up for. The existence of such a body is governed by law, and in its composition should be the prime minister, competent ministers, presidents of national councils and MPs elected from minority lists. This advice is necessary if the state really wants to come seriously to resolving the minority issue and if it wants to boost the participation of minorities in Serbia's public and political life, especially through respect for the electoral will of national minorities. The Council would also take care of the preservation, promotion and protection of national, ethnic, religious and cultural specificities of members of national minorities, but would also take preventive measures to remove obstacles to the exercise of those rights. The issue of minority positions and the question of the achievement of their individual and collective rights has been regulated through a set of laws, beginning with the Federal Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities of 2002, through the law in the field of education, culture, information, official use of language and letter, the law on national councils of national minorities, but also through ratification of international documents. In order to adequately treat and resolve the situation of national minorities, it is necessary to pass one general law, by joining the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities of 2002 and the Law on National Councils of 2009, and this roof law should in fact be based on the Resolution of PS SE No 1985 adopted on 8 April this year. So this is the SE Resolution on the position of national minorities. Such a law would systematically and comprehensively address the issue of the exercise of the rights of minority peoples. PS SE 1985 resolution brought forward, as I said, on 8 April this year, first clearly raises concerns about the state and rights of national minorities. This resolution clearly defines the notion of national minorities, and protection of minority rights affirms through building a sustainable future for the whole of Europe. The carelessness and inability to care for minorities has been marked in this resolution as one of the main causes of political tensions and conflicts, and minority protection is taken as one of the most effective means to prevent conflict. The carelessness and inability to care for minorities has been marked in this resolution as one of the main causes of political tensions and conflicts, and minority protection is taken as one of the most effective means to prevent conflict. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe calls in this country's resolution to refrain from adopting any acts that will reduce the level of exercise of rights to national minorities. I am now warning you that this proposal for a law on national councils is precisely a reduction of these rights and is in line with the latest resolution of the Council of Europe. So I urge you to seriously consider adopting our amendments and respect the attitude, opinion, knowledge and experience of people who in this high house with full electoral and legal legitimacy represent a group of people directly concerned by this bill that we are discussing today. If we want faster and more effective negotiations with the EU, and we have had the opportunity to hear that this is one of the main objectives of this government, I suggest we follow closely the instructions and signals that come from there. We will try to draw attention to them in time, especially those concerned by the rights of national minorities. So, I recommend your attention to Resolution 1985 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, adopted on 8 April this year. In this part, I'd like so much. I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1117	The word has a folk MP, Aida Ćorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1118	The Honorable Presidency, a respected minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, according to my colleague Meho Omerovic, is a great pleasure that one of the first laws to enter the debate is this law, which, of course, speaks of its importance. What's not good is that we're just considering this time part of the law, the part about the election. I understand that urgency, of course, because in June, we are practically running out of time for the national councils of the national minorities, and that elections for national councils would be called simply for urgency to be necessary. What I would like to draw attention to is that, no matter what practically since 2002, Serbia has been working on legislation, it cannot be said that there is a fully developed, coherent and efficient legal institutional system of minority protection. The creation of such a constitutional and institutional framework for minority policy was not the result of a political consensus on a thought-out strategy to improve the position of minorities, but rather the result of an ad hoc response to the demands of the international community and of meeting the political interests of the leadership of national minorities, which in practice proved to be largely devastating. In practice, the achievement of minority policy has been marked by a series of problems, starting with the lack of consistency of procedures, unclear division of competences among institutions, up to a strong tendency of ethno-nationalist closure of national communities, with the growth of internal conflicts, which is why members of national communities are forced to deal mainly with themselves, and depending on external arbitration, sometimes central authorities, and often external authorities, either so-called. countries of origin, whether international organisations. In addition, there is a conflict between the majority and minority communities and the creation of conditions for living in parallel societies. It is also a strong politicisation of society, as well as of national minorities, which is reflected in the establishment of a monopoly of political parties over the representation of the community, as well as the conversion of national councils into para-state bodies, which enable individual legal solutions. All of the above leads to additional political instrumentisation of man's policy both within the frameworks of the national minorities themselves, which weakens within the minority relationship and in international co-operation and communication. To improve minority policy, new instruments are needed to promote diversity, non-discrimination, accept different and multilingualism. It is necessary to pay greater attention to the values, procedures and institutions of integration. For the minority policy established in 2000, a significant positive feature is opening up to the outside world, accepting international standards, especially European conventions, but also improving co-operation with neighbouring countries that represent so-called the home countries of individual national minorities. The rights of the national minorities are part of the so-called political criteria and are monitored from candidate status until the end of the accession negotiations under Chapter 23. Through respect for the rights of national minorities, however, the ability of the Serbian state to apply the right it has adopted, measuring its state capacity and finally its capacity to be a rule of law. It is also important in terms of accepting the fact that Serbia is a multinational state with all regional differences. For the EU, there is not one form of respect for the rights of national minorities, and it is particularly important for Serbia to use membership negotiations to define minority policy and create conditions for the integration of all communities in the country. This calls for a continuous improvement in minority policy and its definition, as a comprehensive policy of respect for diversity and strengthening social integration. A comprehensive policy of Serbia's integration is approaching the EU, providing an internal consensus on minority issues and improving relations with neighbouring countries. What was particularly interesting to me in the past few years to follow as a representative of civil society is through research, but to say in a direct relationship with minority peoples is a lack of sense of belonging or ownership, as it is said, national councils and mostly ordinary, small world, ordinary people, and they do not know what the powers of national councils are, nor do they recognise it as their property, or national councils do not recognize it as their representatives. This, unfortunately, led to a kind of self-getoisation of minority nations, and this is certainly not going in the right direction. I am afraid that we have had examples of the opposite practice of what is a wish, which is for Serbia to be a country of all its citizens and for the integration of minorities to be fully achieved. It is also very important for me to have both women and young people represented in the national councils, and that is something that must be very much taken into account, so I plead to all of us, and also to the resolution ministry that in the months ahead and when the debate is complete about the whole law, we really care about these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1119	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1120	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Minister Udovici, co-workers of the ministry, as well as all my predecessors who spoke before me, I would also like to commend the intention that these amendments to the law on national councils have arrived in the process among the first draft amendments to the law. I think it is, among other things, because we have elections for national councils coming, which some national councils are running out of time. I'm a member of the Russian National Council, who did what he did in four years, under that law we passed in 2009, with his various faults and good sides. In these changes, I would like first of all to commend that the election for members of the National Council has finally been decided. It turned out that in the past elections, the Central Election Commission did not do very well the elections that were four years ago. I commend that from now on, these amendments will lead RIK to conduct an election procedure, as well as elections for MPs. Since the elections, I say, are prescribed, elections for national councils will be the same as elections for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since, in some ways, I can say that I come from a national community that counts about 16,000 members of the national community, who has lived in Serbia for more than 260 years, which has 19 members under the Law on National Councils, there are concerns about some of the amendments that you make to these amendments to the National Councils Act. There is primarily concern with me, as well as with various other members of national communities, with Slovakia, Croats, who do not have representatives in the legislative home of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to erasing from the register of national councils. Does this mean that if the National Council were to be, in some way, deleted from the register, does this mean that it would be deleted immediately after the election, a month, two, three after the election, in four years in three and a half years it would not work? So, the National Community is in some way being suspended by the Constitution of guaranteed rights because it says that elections for national councils are being held all together in a period of four years. The second thing that I may be worried about in all this is that I know from practice, from the executive body, or from now on by the new executive board, in a way, it's not the advisory body to the National Council, it's the body that is professional. After a new amendment, members of the Executive Board will be only members of the National Council. In my view, we know that national councils perform the function of education, care for education, information, official use of language and letter, and culture, and I can say that it has been shown that members of the National Council are mostly people who are not engaged in these professions, are engaged, but not all of them, mostly members of the National Council are sometimes amateurs from cultural and artistic societies, people who may have been profiled in one national community, but have nothing to do with those areas. That's why I think the proposal to be members of the executive board, to just be members of the National Council, is not good for me. Secondly, I would also suggest that you might adopt the amendments proposed by the LSV is that you have determined that polling stations can only be opened where there are 100 voters or, now newly, members of the national minority, the term changes. In some areas, there are fewer members of the national community who want to vote. In these times when it's hard to travel, when our older population lives in villages, to go to a municipal place I think it's a big problem and those members of the national community are sometimes denied the right to vote. As for the other changes, I think they're good. I would like to commend them, but I think there are still some amendments to the National Councils Act, because practically in the work and in the fulfillment of these four areas there are really great difficulties. In particular, I would like to commend my predecessor Enis Imamamaovic's speech, which said that the National Minority Council, which is a collective tele, which represents all members of the national communities in the Republic of Serbia, has so far not worked, which I think is a big problem, because in our national councils we are concerned about our rights, but some collective rights, being in front of the state, are simply in this case, the unhappiness of this National Community Council does not exist. I'd like to ask you to take care of that in some amendments to the law. Also, if it's a single polling list, in my opinion, the changes were made, but they weren't well made. There is a unique electoral list and a special polling list for members of the national communities. In local self-governments, I have heard that there is no, let me say, agreement, a member of the national community with its own good will is listed in the special voter list, but does not follow the unique voter list and the special voter list, so that the representatives working in municipalities do not know whether a particular person from the special polling list, whether she has moved, whether she is alive, whether she has signed up, so that they have suggested that the unique voter list contains a particular item that says whether the person has entered the special voter list. I don't think that's a violation of the law. Anyone who enlists in a special voter's list is already on a list, so I think it should follow a unique voter's list, that it should follow a special voter's list. In all this, LSV proposed five amendments. All amendments have been submitted with one good intention to bring this part of the election into line, advance, so please look at our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1121	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1122	The Honorable President, Mrs. Widowski, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, may say that this bill is of a technical nature. I would disagree with that for several reasons, on the one hand, because last year's working group, the 20-member group, worked about six months on this text of the bill. On the other hand, about or close to 70 members, of a total of 139 members of the National Minority Councils Act, could be considered as technical amendments because of, above all, the choice of national councils of national minorities and those related to the registration of national councils, the conduct of the electoral list, the organisation of elections for the selection of national councils of national minorities, etc. I would say that this is not about the technical changes to the law, but about those parts of the law that could be viewed as procedural parts of the National Minority Councils Act, but not about the material part, as the 2009 National Councils of National Minorities regulate three large areas: the competences of national councils of national minorities, elections, the way in which national councils of national minorities are elected and the funding of national councils of national minorities. I therefore believe that these changes are significant and important, but that we expect another amendment to this law, I hope by the end of the year, which we view as much more significant changes to the Law on National Councils of Minorities than these are, above all, because these changes will also concern the jurisdiction of national councils of national minorities, i.e.. that material part of the Law on National Councils. It should be said that the Republic of Serbia belongs to countries that know and recognise the collective rights of national minorities or national communities. National councils of national minorities are not new to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Many say that this law was passed in 2009, which is true, but I would like to remind you that the national councils of national minorities were first formed on the territory of the Republic of Serbia 12 years ago in 2002, that the national councils of the national minorities are constitutional categories 11 years, as they were foreseen by the constitutional acts of the former state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia they have been mentioned since 2006. It is very important bodies, bodies, as well as under the Law on National Councils of National Minorities and under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to exercise the right to self-government in culture, education, notification and official use of language and letter, members of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia can choose their national councils. These regulations also state that the National Council represents a national minority in the fields of education, culture, communication in the language of national minorities and official use of languages and letters, participates in the decision-making process or decides on issues from these areas and the establishment of institutions, companies and other organisations in these areas. This is important to say for the public, because many people in the Republic of Serbia do not know what national councils are, whether they are public authorities, whether they are citizens' associations, whether they are other organisations or organizations of a different type. I would say, according to our regulations, national councils are the highest bodies of cultural autonomy or self-government of a particular national community of national minorities. Currently in the Republic of Serbia 19 national communities have formed their national councils and have been functioning for years. I would not like to hide the satisfaction of this bill being the chronological third to adopt this assembly of the National Assembly, following the Law on the Ministry, which is the necessity in every term of the National Assembly, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, which was important because of certain deadlines. If we exempt those two bill proposals, then practically this law that you defend, Mrs. Udovici, is the first in this assembly of the National Assembly to discuss this esteemed home. Maybe I'll be a little subjective, I'd say that's not an accident. It is not by chance that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vukic, in his exposé, devoted part of the national councils of national minorities and announced the very quick adoption of these amendments to the law, as well as another amendment to the laws in the near future that I have recently alluded to. This is what we view as the greatest respect for our coalition agreement with the SNS and I think it is a very good signal, not only to the members of the national minorities that the National Assembly will very quickly adopt these amendments to the law, and that, in our hopes, a working group will be formed very quickly that will make these others for us much more significant changes. These amendments and amendments to the laws have been in the assembly procedure since 18 December 2013, but have not been adopted due to the calling and holding of early parliamentary elections. The fact that these changes have already been in the process doesn't necessarily mean that among the first ones this law will be passed, and that's why I said, what I just pointed out, it's extremely good that the National Assembly is already discussing these amendments and amendments to the law. This is also important because, as many have already said, elections for national councils of national minorities will be held very quickly, i.e. in October of the current year, because they highlight the four-year mandates of the national councils of national minorities. It would not be good because of the principle of legitimacy to extend the mandate of national councils when there are conditions for this law to be adopted. Some have said that members of national minorities do not recognise national councils as essential bodies in the exercise of their rights. I wouldn't agree with that, because I always have a problem with generalizations and I always have a problem when it's said that a certain group of people don't accept something or accept something, there's probably both these and those kind of people. What's my experience is that members of national minorities, for example. I'm talking about the Hungarian National Community, they recognize the work of the National Council because, for example, The National Council of Hungarians, temporarily formed in 1999, then as an association of citizens, and under the applicable laws, we have a national council since 2002. In this session, the National Council of Hungarians adopted eight strategies. For example – education development strategy, culture, official use of language, communication, adult education, demographic strategy, etc. So the National Council has adopted strategies for our national community from which, unfortunately, even the state has no development strategy. I hope it changes very quickly in this session. In addition, the National Council of Hungarians grants a scholarship from the budget to students and that will contribute, already now contribute, I can say that after four years, the competences of members of the Hungarian national community and thus we will achieve the goal of more Hungarians studying at universities in the Republic of Serbia. It is good that this law, this bill, will specify certain terms and improve the legal framework relating to the registration of national councils, for the mandate of national councils, for the necessary censorship, for calling direct elections for the selection of national councils, because I consider it a significant fact and that the vast majority of national councils have been elected in direct elections. Of course, I would not want to discriminate against those national councils that, for various reasons, were not able to establish themselves directly, but were done through electronic congregations, but I certainly find it important that most of them were formed on the basis of direct elections. Issues are also regulated regarding deadlines, disbanding the National Council, training of the Interim Authority, management, in this case, the mandate of members of the National Councils of National Minorities. What may be most important is to regulate the update of the special voter lists because it was very little to do in the previous period. Of course, it is a good solution for RIK to hold elections for national councils of national minorities, not so-called national minorities. The Central Election Commission, which did not have the capacity, even in 2010, to carry out the responsibility in a quality way. I also consider a significant solution to the polling stations that this law will introduce the possibility for polling stations to be defined and opened and when there are no such large numbers of voters in a given area, as predicted by the previous law, and thus all members of the national minorities will be able to choose their national councils. As I said, these changes concern procedural rules under the applicable National Minority Council Act. There is much more serious work to be done to amend the parts of this law because the Constitutional Court abolished some provisions of the Law on National Councils on 16 January 2014, but the Constitutional Court, in its argument, stated that these solutions in a different legal structure, in accordance with the legal understanding of the Constitutional Court, can be re-established by amendments and additions to the applicable law. I think we will have to find together adequate solutions to respect, on the one hand, the Constitutional Court's decision, but, on the other hand, we will have to enable national councils of national minorities to be as much as possible what they should be under the Constitution and the applicable laws of the Republic of Serbia, which is the highest body of cultural autonomy of a certain national minority or national community. We don't usually comment on the Constitutional Court decisions, but I can't help but say that this Constitutional Court decision is very interesting. I could even say, under the assumption, that this Constitutional Court decision violates the Constitution, that the Constitutional Court itself is contrary to the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because, according to Article 20(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has reached the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced. If national councils are the authorities of the cultural autonomy of national minorities, if the Republic of Serbia knows and recognises the collective rights of members of national minorities, if members of national minorities exercise certain competences and spheres of education, communication culture and official language use through the freely elected National Council, i.e. from those areas that are important for the preservation of the identity of a particular national community, then it is very strange to abolish any jurisdiction of the National Council, which was just done by the Constitutional Court on 16 January 2014. As I said, we will respect, of course, the Constitutional Court's decision. The state will also, of course, respect the Constitutional Court's decision. There is nothing left for us but to respect the guidelines given by this decision to amend the law in a way that preserves as much as possible the competences of national councils of national minorities. On the other hand, it is important that that decision of the Constitutional Court did not lead to the question of the basis of cultural autonomy since it abolished two members of the Law on National Councils in full, and eight members in part. some of the views of eight members of the National Minority Council Act. To conclude, we will, of course, support these amendments and additions to the law. I'm not going to hide that we were consulted and co-proposed by this law, but during the term of office of this government, so we didn't need to submit amendments to this text. It is significant that among the first laws this proposal is, as I said, and I hope as quickly as possible, another amendment to the National Councils Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1123	The word is Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, honourable presidents, respected lady minister, respected to the public of Serbia, the NS as a national party with great attention has followed this law that was before us today, above all because we know that by respecting minority rights, we become the majority for respect and that is what led us, and as a political party we participated in the adoption of the law in 2009 in this same high house. This is what has guided us and defined that this law, especially and carefully amended and amended this law, is being analysed, involved in the possible repairs of already existing proposed members of the law, and that we are indeed contributing to making the picture of Serbia as a multiethnic country even better. What has given us great encouragement is the visit of high-ranking politician and diplomat Miroslav Lajcak, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Slovakia, who last week when our guest said that Vojvodina is an example of an environment where more national rights are achieved in a way that could be a model for Europe as a whole. That's what we're proud of. As an MP coming from Vojvodina, I live with Somboro and I know he was right and I'm proud that we can prove it at any moment where we want to present ourselves as a country. The interests of national minorities and their rights are not unknown to us and they are much older here than the law adopted in 2009 whose changes and additions we are dealing with today. There's only one law when it comes to life, then its shortcomings are seen. This law is before us today with all 68 members who are changing. I know that the task force had a serious dilemma about whether to pass a new law or to access amendments and additions to the existing law. It has joined this other solution, and I think it will probably be necessary in some due time to amend some other members of this law, but life will certainly give the right answer to the life of this law. The proposed amendments and amendments to the National Minority Councils Act introduce several new solutions and institutes that are largely improving the active legal text. I think it is very good that the National Assembly will adopt these amendments and complements at the very beginning of its mandate, so that elections for national councils of national minorities will be able to be held in accordance with the improved provisions of the law by the end of this year. With regard to the electoral process, it is particularly important to have a new solution in the law that practically transfers all competences to the RIK as an official state body that has professional and professional capacity to implement the electoral process in an adequate manner from the beginning to the end. RIK's responsibilities as the Supreme Election Authority relate to both direct elections and indirect elections through the Electoral Assembly. The Republic Election Commission will carry out an electoral procedure to make maximum use of analogous good solutions to the Law and the election of MPs. Due to the change in jurisdiction, the CEC, the Central Election Commission, whose permanent composition, under current law, is appointed by the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, as well as the Electoral Commission for Election Areas. Regardless of the improvements seen in a tight legal framework for the conduct of elections and some dilemmas, the specificities of the electoral process for members of national councils of national minorities have been undermined. In particular, the amended Article 65 prescribes that the election committee shall consist of the president and at least four members who have also deputies, by analogy with parliamentary elections. Potentially, the problem in practice may arise as a result of the provision that RIK educates the electoral board, appoints the president, members and their deputies from a person who is listed in a special electoral list, which are members of a specific national minority. Realisations of this provision will not pose a problem in the environment where members of a particular national minority live in a larger number, such as Vojvodina, Sandzak, south of Serbia. But a legitimate question arises – what in the environments where representatives of a particular national minority live in a minor number, and it is necessary to ensure conditions that they can exercise their legal right, their constitution guaranteeed the right to participate in the electoral process? Perhaps, however, this restrictive provision should be reconsidered when it comes to the election committee. The relevant paper in the law is a provision in the new Article 4b, which is essentially a sanction, which is the possibility of eradicating the national council from the register. This happens in two cases. If the national council is disbanded for suspending the selection procedure, or if the number of members of the council falls below half of the Statute of the intended number. Both situations represent the lack of interest of a particular national minority in achieving the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights. It is logical to delete the national council from the relevant records conducted by the competent authority of the state administration, so that absolute full responsibility and national minorities are expected in this election process. The national minority does not lose the right to exercise its rights in the perspective, but will therefore have to wait until the next term scheduled to hold regular elections for members of national councils. We find this member extremely good. As regards the internal organisation of the National Council, the draft law amending Article 7 provides for the Executive Board as an authority which should make certain decisions in an operational and faster manner on behalf of the National Council. From a strictly formal legal point of view, it is problematic to introduce an executive committee by the provisions of the law in a situation where the statute, as the highest legal act of the National Council, does not foresee the existence of such a body. Otherwise, the National Council under current law has the President, the Executive Body and the Committees on Education, Culture, Notification and Official Use of Language and Letters. The President and members of the Executive Board are scheduled to be elected from the order and members of the National Council on a proposal from the President of the National Council. It might be a better solution to prescribe that the composition of the Executive Board be proportionate to the composition of the National Council itself, for example, by analogy, with the composition of the Committee in the National Assembly, which depicts the relationship of forces in the current assembly of the highest legislative body. In this way, it would reduce the risk of the situation if the National Council did not confirm any of the decisions of the Executive Board, thereby automatically ending the mandate of the Executive Board itself. I've pointed out only some of the factors that we've seen in this law that might be controversial in the realisation, or, as I said at the outset, in the life of the law itself. What I will add, and why this law is very important for Serbia, not only for national minorities, but also for those who make up the majority, is that the elections that are conducted under this law and the work of the National Council itself are financed by the largest part of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is not government funds, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is the funds of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is their property and they have the right to monitor every moment how their money from the budget is spent. That is why we believe that this law must be very responsible, correct, precise and more just in this high house, because the responsible attitude towards national minorities shows us and proves to be a responsible majority. That's what Serbia wants to show. In voting day, New Serbia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1125	The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1126	I'll use 10 minutes from my parliamentary group, the other 10, if necessary, in the later part. Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, representatives of the interest of Serbian citizens, this bill is excellent, if for nothing else, then for the simple reason it reduces and docks the possibility for national councils to be private property or property of a particular political party. All the shortcomings, all the flaws, all the irregularities of the law that was passed in 2009 unfortunately hit the Bosniak National Council. You know well and remember that, with an unqualityly well-defined way of establishing a national council and with one discrepancy that existed, the elected representatives of the National Council of Bosniaks were unable to form a national council of Bosniaks in full and total capacity. For the absurd to be even bigger, it happened that absolutely by the absence of something that we are now introducing into this law, and that is the possibility of early elections, it represents the council at the time, the president of the previous council, and that was Mr. Esad Djudjevic. When you have no legitimacy, you have no responsibility. Absolutely in this direction is also the leading National Council of Bosniaks, at the very least in a carnade, irresponsible and unprofessional way. For this reason, I would like to commend this law, which is consistent, clear, resolves a number of dilemmas and, in the context of the election of a direct representative in the national council, but also solves some of the misunderstandings in the election of a national council of electricians. I must express great regret that the National Council of Bosniaks served more in the previous session as a party exposition of one party, that the insolence was so much that people organised political gatherings in the rooms that the city donated in 2004 and transferred to the National Bosniak Council at that time. And not only that, people have kept their big gatherings ahead of this council and thus really abused this roofing institution that should be the advice that represents the interests of all Bosniaks in this country. The most bright point, I must say, in this term the Council has done, is to implement the Bosnian language in the school system in schools where Bosniaks are participating, which is the ten-year drive of all national Bosniak parties in Sandzak, is in some way politicised and used for political purposes. In this way it has just damaged the quality programme in Bosniak, Bosnian, or Bosniak, children's language and has damaged the interest of Bosniaks. In the field of culture nothing has been done, the National Council has practically received huge sums and we have a report of the auditors who will show you in the second part, but in cultural terms, the National Council of Bosniaks in this term with this leadership that was in the tennis mandate simply did nothing. I have to tell you, this year is extremely important to us Bosniaks. Today we mark the 100th anniversary of the birth of a great bard of Bosniak narratives and tellings of the whole of our country, Cemil Sijaric. It's a very symbolic way to mark this Bigger. It was about politics, it was about political demagogy in the interest of one party, and the door was closed to this larger one for all serious cultural followers and creators who basically work in Sandzak and diaspora. Therefore, I think that this form, which I have decidently read of the law, will, to the greatest extent, reduce the possibility of abuse, and I am greatly pleased that at any moment it can be declared that if we do not have enough representatives in the council, new snap elections can be declared. I want to say that there were good things in the Council, but these are mostly educational processes dedicated to professors who carry out Bosnian language implementation in schools, but they were also done by professionals who were paid for that opportunity and then put on the margins. It is very clear that all this leads to the conclusion that these people who are handling today's Council of the Bosniak National Council, i.e. the Bosniak National Council, do not feel and are unnatural in Bosniak culture and traditions and use this cloak of Bosniaks only to abuse and use for political purposes at the expense of the wrong account of the interest of Bosniaks. It is very important to say that this law establishes yet another possibility, which is the possibility of a administrative dispute which can practically provide further confirmations and guarantees to representatives of national minorities in its right to establish national councils. It is also a really good proposal to transfer management of elections and all actions to the Republic Election Commission or at its chosen capacity of three members for the electoral way, which will also improve the level of professionalism and will practically coordinate people from the profession by setting up those councils. I hope no one and no more national council will experience what the Bosniaks experienced in forming their own advice, and we haven't formed it. I would like to say in this final part that it is extremely important that my colleague Balint Pastor stated that we will have an amendment to this law, in terms of better monitoring of financial resources and material elements, and monitoring spending and spending money. I can tell you that the Bosniak National Council has received serious amounts of money and that here we have an auditor's report showing a decadent number of irregularities and abuses of funds transferred to the account of the Bosniak National Council in this conference. So I want to conclude in this first part of the address that we are really going to support this law. The law is good, the law is decadent, the law is very clear to me as an illegal, and I think it will really ensure the proper functioning, orderly functioning of national councils and the consumption of all the rights that this state gives its citizens other nationalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1127	Thank you. MP Imamovic called. On what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1128	The chairman, I'm advertising a violation of Article 106, where the speaker can only speak about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1129	The MP was talking about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1130	If you'll excuse me, I would ask you most kindly to let me finish a sentence or a thought, or don't you give it to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1131	You're wasting your time. You've already spent 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1132	You spent it on me. If you could give me back my time from the beginning, since I've spent a lot of time talking to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1133	It's been 32 seconds now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1134	Then you count, and I'll say. So the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. We were able to hear from the previous speaker only to talk about the Bosniak National Council. So this is not about the Bosniak National Council, but about the National Council Act, therefore, of all national councils. I'm advocating Article 107, where the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The dignity here has been violated by the speaker talking about a language he calls Bosniak, and I really don't know what the Bosniak language is. The language of the Bosniak national minority in the Republic of Serbia is called Bosnian and in order for someone to speak Bosnian, he should first learn... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1135	Ambassador, you are no longer calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have begun censoring the speech of the previous speaker, and you have misused the Rules of Procedure, or the institution of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Are you asking us to come forward in the voting day? We need to get through the procedure before you start again. Are you asking us to make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? You've already used Article 106 and you've used Article 103 so you can't go back to the same members as Article 107. I don't know what's left. Take your pick.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1136	If you give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1137	You have to say the first thing, you can't say a word like this just to be given.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1138	All right, there's an old president of the National Assembly at the session. So, you were absolutely bound to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1139	You must appeal to a member of the Rules of Procedure. I apologize, but you must respect the Rules of Procedure, with my best wishes to allow. Except for these three members, call on something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1140	I'm reporting under Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1141	Just a moment to see what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1142	Please don't waste my time and count my seconds, because you're wasting your time watching which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1143	I won't answer when someone throws it out of place like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1144	It's not a throw, you gave me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1145	Wait a minute, be nice, let me see what article 27 is. Article 27 is the President of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1146	So as president of the National Assembly, you were obliged to protect the name of a national minority. Here, the language of the Bosniak national minority is called Bosniak and you were obliged to correct the speaker and tell him it was Bosnian.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1147	Thank you very much. It's not a broken Rules of Procedure. Read Article 27, if you will to your colleagues, this is about the powers and the presentation of the President, etc. Don't, please, I won't do any more damage to the Rules of Procedure to have one MP censoring another's words. It is the right to the opinion of the MPs as to what they will say and how they will comment on the law as an authorised representative of the SDPS parliamentary group. If you insist, we will plead in the voting day. Thank you. The word is Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1148	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Udovici, I would like first of all to say that the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this draft law amending the Law on Councils of Minority Communities. I think this is a great opportunity today, not only to discuss the content of the law, but also why it is generally important to discuss the position of minorities in Serbia today. Let me begin by saying that, as the promoter did, but also my colleague Pastor, I quote a provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is important for the protection of minority members in Serbia. This is Article 14. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says, quotes: "The Republic of Serbia protects the rights of national minorities and the state guarantees special protection against national minorities in order to achieve full equality and preserve their identity." Why did I mention this member of the law? Because there are laws whose primary aim is to preserve the identity of national minorities, but also other laws providing for the equality of minority members with other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, in addition to this law, there are other many laws that regulate the issue of the position and participation of members of national minorities in public life, such as the laws of education and culture, but they will talk about it, I expect, and members of minority communities. The reason why the SPS defines that the vote for this bill is an intensification of the proposal to encourage solutions to the National Minority Councils Act, to create not only conditions for the elections ahead, but to ensure the functioning of the national councils of national minorities in full capacity. It is indisputable that since 2009 to date, the existing law has shown a number of weaknesses, that there have been many problems in practice that have prevented the work of national councils, that there have been many so-called so-called so-called so-called national councils. an empty space, i.e. there was a legal disorder that was used, unfortunately sometimes abused, and that created two negative situations, if I may say so. On the one hand, the inability of national minorities to fully express all their demands and to exercise the rights that the Republic of Serbia guarantees them. On the other hand, they were also used to negatively promote the minority issue in Serbia. We think this is a good opportunity, and this is also the reason why this law should be discussed today, that the work of national councils should be assessed in the right way and that the importance of forming national minority councils to preserve and develop minority specificities and ensure equal standing with all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, it seems to me that fellow Pastor mentioned that the existing law from the point of view of the right to the formation of national councils of national minorities was used by 19 minority communities and should be mentioned that the number of members of minority communities who formed their own council, i.e. there is a very large proportion in number. For example, the Ukrainians or Germans, there are only four and a few thousand of them, according to the 2011 census, while there are national minorities who have over 250,000 or 150,000, which in itself says that solutions within this law must be so well formulated, but also plastic to provide full capacity for all. I think it's a good thing this law is on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and it's the first, if I may say so, the full law we're discussing. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, announced in an exposé during the formation of the government the adoption of this law, but it should not be forgotten that we are being followed by more work on this law by the end of the year. One is the implementation of this law in practice, and another is the work mentioned by fellow Pastor, it is about decisions of the Constitutional Court which have been declared incompatible with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and those provisions which are legally unclear, which can be interpreted in different ways and solutions that we will offer for this new law that will be passed by the end of the year. Let me also say a few words about the content of this law and those solutions that seem very important to me for this law. The content of this Act amending and supplementing the Law on National Minority Councils of National Minorities makes it clear that the role of President of the National Council has been increased. Namely, he has a much larger diapazon of rights and obligations, proposed by the Executive Board, his role in the registration of the National Council was established, because they are included in the National Councils register, because the submission of documentation also implies the use of his personal data, which is a condition for enrolment in the National Councils register. I think it is a good thing that precise deadlines are set, both for holding elections and of course, deadlines relating to the establishment of the National Council for all these situations that may arise when the National Council is working, but also for the new elections that follow when the National Council does not work when new elections are needed. Then, I find it very interesting and good and these solutions related to the disbanding of the National Council. It is noted that to say the same hand was written by this law, because there is an analogy related to solutions in this law and some solutions that exist at the level of local self-government. There is one absolute consistency of the motion for a solution, because if the National Council so provides, it shall not be established within 30 days of the final results being determined, the National Council shall be dissolved. We have the same situation at the level of local self-government, but about that. Then if the election procedure is suspended, the selection procedure of the National Council. The National Council is also disbanded if it doesn't sit for more than six months, which makes sense again, because local self-government is something else, there's a shorter deadline, but this creates the possibility that the National Council has to work and solves the question if of course it wants to be put into a situation to be disbanded. One of the conditions is that the National Council may be disbanded if it does not elect the President of the National Council within 30 days of the constitution, where we have such a situation at the level of local self-government and if no temporary governing body of the National Council is established. It is interesting that membership in the National Council may cease if a member does not participate for more than a year in the work of the Council. I think it's a very good solution, since the obstruction of individual members of national councils has begun, which has made it impossible for the National Council to work. I think it's also good to specify all the jobs related to a special electoral list of national minorities. You mentioned that special voter list. If we look at Article 45, it seems to me that the Constitution is also of great importance to say this special ballot for the selection of the National Councils of National Minorities and Article 47. The constitution, I'm sorry, finds that maintaining national membership freely and that no one is obliged to declare his nationality. We have one before, objectively by enlisting in the electoral list, if I may say a declaration of national membership, exactly a member of the national minorities participates in all those affairs that are related to the formation of the National Councils. Also, I would like to commend these solutions related to the work of the election authority for members of the National Minority Council. The provisions relating to the Republic Election Commission are clear, precise, certain and good that there is no such central electoral commission as before, now all jobs are settled within the Republic Election Commission. It is prescribed what is her job and it is good that the Republic Election Commission is authorized to elect a Committee of three members who are obliged to hold elections in the electoral assembly. I think that the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia has shown an envious flexibility in determining polling stations, since a provision has been prescribed that at least 100 voters must be in one polling post, up to 2,500 voters such as the law solution in some other countries. But this is how you meet a demographic situation. In this way, it comes out to the unfavourable geographical characteristics of certain areas, distances from the settlements to create as many conditions for voting as possible, that a number of members of national minorities can participate in the vote. Some time ago, I came across one piece of information, how interesting this is, and how important it will be, I have to present one piece of information that I found in a report by the Human Rights Committee on the state of human rights in Serbia in 2012. There is information that out of the 91 registered parties in Serbia, minority members in Serbia have been organised into over 51 political parties, which means that minority members also have the capacity to participate in these other elections. Since political parties are also meant to form national councils in their own way, it will be very interesting in any case. I think it would be necessary, this is now my proposal to you, to clarify two things. I have one question, three questions. One thing is, can the President of the National Council be president of the Executive Board of the National Council? The law doesn't say it can't, nor does it say it can. I'm saying this from the point of view of presenting the National Council and those provisions of the laws that speak when the Executive Board is working, and the National Council is dismissed. That's the question. I think you should clarify Article 2(2) of this law. The law lays down that it is up to the ministry to decide on the application for registration of the National Council within 30 days of receipt of the orderly application. I stress, orderly applications because, in the light of the law, it means, not in the member of the law that treats this, but in the explanation, it is found that if it does not decide to make a negative decision within that time limit. I think this should be explained, because if it's an orderly application, why would it be a negative solution, because, as a rule, the administration means that the solution should be positive. Then the question is why would the solution be negative if we wanted to settle every segment of this issue. One more question. There is one analogy of the work of the Executive Board of the National Council with the executive bodies at the level of local self-government. The Executive Board may extend its work after the end of the work of the National Council until a new Executive Board enters office. The issue of nature of decisions is, since it is envisaged to confirm the decisions of the Executive Board by the National Committee, I say in a later procedure, but there is also a provision in Article 10, second sentence where it is found that if the decision is not confirmed it remains in force. In my view, it would also be necessary to clarify this dimension of the issue. I think it is good for this law to be passed, that Serbia needs it, not only for members of national minorities and the upcoming elections, but also for the Republic of Serbia because this law further enriches the legislative framework for minority policy Serbia has. It should not be forgotten that a number of laws relating to the protection of the rights of members of the national minorities of Serbia have been inherited as the country's Successor of the previous state and that these national councils as part of the 2002 Law on the Protection of the Rights of Members, but should also mention the Constitutional Charter on Human and Minority Rights, international agreements signed by the State, or inherited, but also the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages or the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Rights of Members of National Minorities. Since the state submits annual reports on the application of these two important international documents. I think it is good to discuss the position of minority members and bring this law for the reasons mentioned by fellow Omerovic. We will have certain obligations in the process of obtaining full membership in the EU and this issue of minority rights should be more transparently affirmed and affirmed by all the good solutions that the state has, including adoption of this law. I'm saying this in the context of the situation we had in 2012 and 2013. If you remember, in 2012, when a decision was to be made on the start of the negotiations, then we had to ask the question of the position of minority government in Serbia, but in a way that required members of the minority community to plead as Romanians. This required further diplomatic efforts and clarifications and the work and activities of the OSCE Commissioner for the issue of national minorities in order to determine that Serbia is right. In 2013, we again had a situation for individual members of the Bulgarian government to explain that Serbia will not be a full member until they meet obligations related to the position of members of the Bulgarian minority. I think the affirmation of this issue, this law and minority policy of Serbia is something that not only helps us in Eurointegration but, on the other hand, creates a good basis that we as a country can also ask, as a country, about other neighbours, about us neighbouring countries, about the position of Serbs in the region in those countries, because then we can call on adopted documents and achieve the level of rights Serbia has provided for minority members. At the very end, let me say that we are facing serious work, both in the assembly, but also in the government and the Ministry, since the provisions of the law amending the Act on the selection of national councils of national minorities also foresee obligations for the Ministry, i.e. For you, Madam Minister. These are obligations to be implemented within 60 days. This is: regulation of the provisions of Article 1 relating to registration in the register, Article 18, drawing up forms, declaration of support for the education of the electoral list of national minorities, Article 25, request for removal from the special electoral list of the authority, unit of local self-government, according to the place of residence on a special form prescribed by the resolution minister. This is what I'm saying because these are the proverbs that are designed by this law as jobs done by the minister responsible for implementing this law. We also have elections for the national councils of the national minorities waiting for us. There were 19 national councils. It is our desire to be even more, given that the census has established a number of members of minority communities, but there are also those whose number is less than 2000. In any case, all laws have the opportunity to form their national councils. As mentioned by several colleagues, we are also facing new provisions of the Law on National Minorities Councils concerning decisions of the Constitutional Court and will be particularly challenging to you, as well as to Members of the People's Parliaments, how those provisions of the Law on the National Councils of National Minorities, which the Constitutional Court has declared incompatible with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or where it is said that existing solutions and the level of law cannot be reduced, the rights achieved cannot be questioned and there is one legal gap that can be replaced. It would be good, as well as in the creation of this law, that national councils of national minorities participated, that they also take part in the drafting of these provisions of the law, because that law might then have full legitimacy. In any case, our parliamentary group will vote for the adoption of this law. If you can, I'd like you to answer these questions for us, just to clarify to the public possible misunderstandings regarding these provisions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1149	The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1150	Thank you to all the honourable MPs for their words, for their comments, suggestions, questions. First of all, I'd like to answer some of the most essential questions that have been asked. I am very pleased to see the recognition of all speakers of the fact that there is a need for this law to be passed to regulate technical, legal, practical, logically in a better way one process around which there is great, if not total consent. There are MPs who may not fully agree with some parts of this process, however, the vast majority accept that we all recognise that there are also essential issues when it comes to the implementation and implementation of the rights of national minorities through this law, above all, and among other things, the question raised by the Constitutional Court's decision that some important members are not in line with the Constitution and that these issues must be addressed in the next phase. This phase should come when, under this law which is currently best regulated by the election process and the representativeness of the election and the advice that will be obtained, we can also go with the members of such elected national councils, or representatives, to solve these other problems. I would like first to reply to MP Imamovic, I think it is important to stress, perhaps another MP mentioned, a little concern about the right to disband or abolish national councils, that it is only actually the right to prevent abuse. The right to exercise a right goes with the responsibility to exercise it in the way the spirit of the law rules. Therefore, this law now allows the unbundling of a non-national council to approach the elections again. In no case is the right of a national minority to organise and exercise its cultural rights through a national council. I would stress that all the amendments that come to us will be very carefully considered and if they are in the spirit of the agreement that has been reached so far, certainly include in this bill, and if they open up the issues that we believe we should treat as part of a new broader debate that will be held after the election of these national councils and in accordance with the amendments to the laws that will be necessary to comply with the Constitution, then we will leave them for that time. There have also been words here that there are problems in the fundamental exercise of the electoral right of national minorities through such advice. These are the problems that occur in other areas of our lives. Serbia is still working to make the laws and intentions adopted through the adoption of some laws truly come true in life. It's something that this government and this ministry are very committed to. We will work together with the broad representatives of society, in this case especially national minorities and representatives of civil society who work with them or represent them, in order to carry out as much as possible in life the genuine representation of the interests of national minorities through these institutions that we are establishing and through the procedures that we are establishing. Finally, on the questions of MP Obradovic, I must say that we would ask you to receive them in writing, in order to make sure that we answer them correctly. A little of this was read quickly and could only lead to more misunderstandings and any other question you may have, we'd be happy to answer, but it has to be precisely set up. There were a few questions, and I don't want to answer three right now, and if I don't give two answers, or if it's unclear, there's no need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-12-0.u1151	I thank the minister. Since it's 17.55 p.m., and we're due to move on to the speaker list, my suggestion is to proceed tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. with work. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. To continue my work, I need MPs. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 128 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 112 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
