ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2706	Mr President, I ask you to explain to me what member of the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights held this morning a session discussing amendments to the proposal for a conclusion on which the final statement was given yesterday, which concluded a single search? How and why today the Committee has considered something that has passed. The chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights yesterday, without a decision and opinion of the Committee on Amendments, rejected in his final statement here the amendments that we have submitted. Yesterday I asked you to tell me on what basis he did it. It's one thing when it's authorized in front of the Committee, and the other is the Committee's decisions. He was here yesterday alone making decisions on behalf of the entire committee and you made it possible for one MP to refuse amendments submitted by three MPs. This session is precedentd in the world and there is no such scandal in any parliament of civilized countries. At one point, you have a demonstration of the parliamentary dictatorship that performs two SDPS MPs. Whether it's a coincidence or not, I don't know. You have a situation when one of them...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2707	Ambassador Imamovic, please just don't bring up qualifications, the question is fine. Please, don't give up your qualifications. Please, you can continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2708	All right. You have a situation where one of them who presides over the Assembly challenges the right of the trustee and the protectors to speak, which is why they have left the session with full right. Another party colleague who, at such times without an official opinion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and without any consultation on behalf of all members of the Committee, rejects amendments of minority MPs submitted to the text of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2709	Thank you. So the question is addressed to the president of parliament. I wasn't the moment that it happened I was chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2710	President, I have three minutes to ask a question, and I'm not done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2711	You're not finished? I thought you were done. Here you go. I'm sorry. Yeah, we'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2712	Yesterday, a single search was completed, a final statement was given to the president of the Committee who refused amendments here, and this morning when he saw what he had done, he better scheduled a session of the Committee to correct those mistakes. That's the man you're in charge of dealing with human and minority rights. If the ruling majority has tasked the Vice-President of the Assembly and the chairman of the Committee to ruin the session and if it is to its private Bosniak... (President: MP, it's already past your time.) I gave you one minute. Please, you've given me time. It's not past time. You took 30 seconds from me. Please, you gave one MP the opportunity to refuse amendments and now you're taking my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2713	Member of the Commission, I have ruled you out because you have really exceeded the powers of MPs to ask for information or explanations by making rough disqualifications of MPs who are in parliament, saying that we have private MPs and private members of national minorities. As Parliament's president, I will not allow such a way of addressing each other, regardless of which political parties they are from. Whether they're from the ruling majority or, this time, from the opposition. So, with all the consequences I can bear from you, I will not allow members of each other to insult each other on a national basis and disqualification. If you want me to answer your question that was before disqualification, so in the part of the session that you marked as "scandalous", I'm trying to quote, but we'll see the exact terms you used, I wasn't the chairman. So I can't judge about it. Some MPs have sought the violation of the Rules of Procedure and we, as parliament, will declare these violations of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, it depends on the assessment of whether the chairman broke the Rules of Procedure at that time, exceeded his powers, or in an inappropriate manner led the session. Although Mr. Imamovic left parliament for public reasons, his statement does not stand that the debate is closed. The debate is not closed. The moment I entered parliament, I interrupted the session, and after the College, I announced that the session would continue at 10.00 hours. As regards the amendment, as the debate was not concluded, the committees held this morning also the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Human and Minority Affairs and gave their opinion on the proposed amendments. The debate on the report we started yesterday was a united debate, so a joint discussion is also being held on the proposal for a report and on the amendments proposed by the MPs. Thank you. Ambassador Aleksandar Jotriæ called to say the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2714	Dear President, I request an explanation from the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, which has so far been given by the Strategy for Promoting Development adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or what is this resolution ministry going to propose to the National Assembly or what is it going to do from its domain to stop and reverse the negative demographic trends in our country? Now, just for a moment, hypothetically to imagine one terrible news that it has been announced that 120 people have died today in Serbia. And to hear that 120 Serbians lost their lives on the previous day. And that's what we've been hearing for nine years. This is actually happening without even being aware of it, because the census of the population in our country in 2011 showed that, compared to the previous census made in 2002, over a period of nine years, as many as 380,000 people were registered in Serbia. It means he disappeared from Serbia's map one city the size of Novi Sad with its surroundings. So, every month on average, it's 3,700 people less. It is 45,000 people on an annual level less in Serbia. This means that every year, a city the size of a pyrot or, say, Kickinda disappears. So the census showed that in Vojvodina, 115,000 people are less than nine years old, that in the region of Šumadija and Western Serbia it is a reduction of 120,000 and that the most tragic situation in Southeast Serbia is where practically empty territory is from the population and where as many as 200,000 people are less than a decade old. This means that practically the population of Nisu lives in the region has disappeared. We also have an unfavourable demographic structure because Serbia is globally sixth in the age of population. The number of pensioners, it is and notorious fact has practically surpassed the number of employees. Two basic reasons for this -- a small number of newborns and emigrations from Serbia. We have a major problem with draining, as is said by brains, that is, educated people, and Serbia is according to that 139-nation parameter that has been examined, in even 136 places in the ranking with Lesota, Swaziland and Kikizia, so by the number of people who are highly educated and leaving Serbia and going to other countries. So I'm looking for an explanation, looking for an answer to this question. (President: Time. ) Once again, let me repeat - what will be done by the restoring ministry, of course the government in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2715	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2716	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission. I'm asking the Minister of Education, or I'm asking for a notice. In fact, it is a question that I have insisted on and in the previous session in the work of this Parliament, and I have been given an answer that I was not satisfied with, so I wanted to continue to insist on that topic, and in this case the elections have taken place, so this is now an opportunity to ask the question. What's this about? It's about graduate students who finished colleges, most of them very successfully with high averages and there are no regulations within which deadline they need to get that piece of paper that checks out their efforts that they have invested in during their studies, so in graduation. There are examples of us as MPs and New Serbia's parliamentary club have been informed and asked to ask where graduate students are not getting their diplomas after a few years. I don't know how colleges and universities work, but I don't know, it should take me a year to get a degree when it's the next day of college. There are colleges that take money for students to speed up for a while where they can get diplomas. The students get some confirmation, a piece of paper that proves they're finished with that and that college, but if they want to compete abroad for a job, of course that paper doesn't exist. So I ask the Minister of Education, what will the Ministry of Education and he, as Minister of Education, undertake, that the deadline in which diplomas are awarded to students after graduation, be temporary, and here I suggest that it be, as it is in many universities, so it happens, for the longest year of graduation, that is, for the next day of college. I don't know why the minister last time answered that he wasn't in charge and that it was going well. Maybe it was some esnafian solidarity, because he, too, I'm talking about the former minister of education, was a professor of the university, and I believe in the energy and ability of the new minister of education to solve this, a problem that seems not so important, and believe me, children, many students are very important. So it's a little humiliating that they don't get diplomas for a year or more, even if they pay to get faster, as there are at some universities at Belgrade University, as it happens, so I believe that some coordination, some regulation, amendments and additions to some laws could solve it and that students, if they don't have a bright perspective on employment after college, could at least get diplomas that they've earned in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2717	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2718	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just over a week ago in this room, we adopted an amendment to the Law which removes 2% from the health contribution position and transfers to the Pension Fund with the explanation of the Finance Minister, that the Fund has managed to make savings, that it will be at an annual level of over 30 billion or 300 million euros and that these funds are free and that due to the current financial situation in the Republic of Serbia's budget it is necessary to transfer to the position of pension contributions, so that pensions can continue to be paid regularly and there will be no problem with the lack of money in that fund. News was released in the media the day before yesterday, that the Apothecary institutions in Serbia and health institutions owe over nine billion dinars to wholesale and drug factories, somewhere around 90m euros at this mid-term. That's two things that never go with each other. On the one hand, we have the confidence of the Minister of Finance that there is enough money in the Health Fund, even more than is necessary for normal functioning of health care, and on the other hand, we have a situation that apothecary institutions in Serbia, I mean state pharmacies, and health institutions owe suppliers, wholesale drugs and drug factories and sanitised and implanted materials. The reminders for the sake of this situation with a debt to large-scale drugs and drug factories and in medicine suppliers occurred at the end of 2012, when the Republika Srpska Assembly turned the debt into a public debt, so that it could be serviced. Also, the reminders are working, at that point the Republic budget owed to the Republic Health Insurance Fund, about 13 billion, even more than it was a long pharmacy to suppliers and health care institutions for withdrawn sanity funds and medicines. My question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, how there has been a debt in the first six months of 2014, pharmacy and health institutions towards major drugs and suppliers of sanity material and intrinsic material of over nine billion, how it thinks it will solve this problem, if it is intention, which I don't think should happen, that even at the end of 2014, when it increases, it will turn into a public debt, and that will further collapse the supply of drugs and sanity material in the Republic of Serbia, because by transferring this debt to public debt, the Republic of Serbia, the lack of money in the budget, will transfer it to wholesalers to serve it, which I don't think it will be able to do so. So my question is how do you solve the debt of over nine billion health institutions and joint pharmacies, that is, pharmacies institutions? The second question concerns the Ministry of Health. My question is, since, according to the Finance Minister, there is enough money in the RFO, will there be any change in staff plans that will allow the employment of more doctors, especially in basic health, because we are witnessing that in the Republic of Serbia all citizens cannot use their constitutionally guaranteed rights on the availability of basic health care in the same way? In small areas, due to the accounting of staff in the Commission for the rationalisation and systematisation of jobs at the Ministry of Health, in which the active participant and the Institute of Public Health is “Batut”, it is impossible to hire doctors if the populated place has less than 1,200 insurance, i.e. 1,200 patients, and we have a situation that villages that are far from health funds, where they usually live, usually old, sick and poor citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have no equal chance, as well as those living in cities, to come to basic health care. By changing staff plans and increasing the number of primary health employees, these problems would be resolved, so that all citizens in the Republic of Serbia would have the same rights, with the constitution guaranteed rights and the availability of basic health care. Another question I'm referring to the Ministry... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2719	Five minutes and nine seconds. Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic, Dr Milana Nikolic, Aleksandar Jablanović and Branka Bosnjak. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to this session, in addition to Dr Nevena Petrusic, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Saša Janković, Protector of Citizens and Rodoljub Šabić, Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning and Data Protection, attends: Ljiljana Lončar, Assistant Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Antigona Andonov, Head of the Office of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Gordana Stevanović, Vladana Jović and Robert Sepi, Deputy Protector of the Citizens, Mina Rolović Jočić, Head of the Office of the Protectors of the Citizens, Katarina Jokić, Advisor of the Citizens and Marinko Rodić, adviser of the Commissioner for Information from Public Matters and Protection of Personal Data. Before we continue to work, I want to apologize once again to the citizens of Serbia, since we are, above all, representatives of the citizens of Serbia and for them we are here and we are working. So, I want to apologize to everyone on your behalf and on your behalf for yesterday's harsh oversight of the chair of the session and for the inability of the trustees to address the National Assembly in the final word, although, according to the Rules of Procedure, they had the right to do so. I am also expressing hope that despite this development, still the creditors today will address parliament and that we will be able to do as our country and citizens of Serbia deserve and this esteemed House to finish the session. We continue to work on a joint single search on the 1, 2 and 3 points of the agenda. With insight into the stenogram, since yesterday I did not chair the session when there was a possible breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I cannot judge it but only the entire parliament, it was Simeon Sasa Jankovic, and it was Mr Rodoljub Sabic. I'm going to ask Mr. Jankovic if he wants to turn around. Sasa Jankovic, from the city: No. Thank you. I give the word to Mr. Rodoljub Šabić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2721	Thank you, Madam President. I also thank those MPs who yesterday called me in a very small number to apologize for what happened last night, although of course they didn't have anything to apologize for. I received Mr Marinkovic's apology and knowledge, who also found the strength to contact me last night. Of course, I heard a statement from the National Assembly and responded to an invitation to come here and talk. I'd be sickly vain if I didn't. I do not like as a official of this country, nor as a citizen of this country, that my country's parliament is in a position to apologize to anyone. I don't want to speculate at all what was actually the cause of the scene yesterday – irresponsibility, ignorance or something worse. Unfortunately, I'm afraid a good number of citizens have reason or reason to believe that it's something worse. I don't want to talk about it anymore. I'd just like to say, on the side of the way we communicated yesterday, aside from what it's my decent attempt to remind you of the Rules of Procedure, I'm characterized don't throw it to me, etc., but what I remembered last night, ladies and gentlemen, that's the way my word was taken from me. So, it was said -- you see, Mr. Jankovic spoke, although he had no right, but we allowed him, and we will not allow you. I think it is also very necessary for us here, especially because of the citizens of Serbia that we know that things are happening in this country in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. So someone has or doesn't have the right to depend on it, not to have the right if someone allows it. But aside from that, to go back to what Mrs. Gojkovic gave me her word. I was going to talk for a while yesterday. I won't speak for long today either. I thought my colleague Jankovic had absorbed a large number of very interesting topics. I'm sorry I haven't been able to say it. The first thing I wanted to say yesterday was that I was in a positive sense impressed by the atmosphere that was at that session, a constructive atmosphere which, to be fair, was made by the representatives of the ruling structure. In an identical, also highly constructive manner, opposition representatives also responded. So, we heard here yesterday that someone, which is a normal thing and a right, who is an MP of this party or that party has the right to think differently than the Manchester or the Trustee, but heard a smooth correct, clear relationship that confirmed the willingness to hear it, to analyze it, to talk about it. We heard the representatives of yesterday's government say -- yes, now I remember how uncomfortable it was for us when you told us some things, and now we realize that it's useful. So I was really pleased with the atmosphere that ruled most of yesterday's session. I just wanted to remind you of two things. I could do a lot, but really two things that I think yesterday's discussion didn't attract as much of your attention as I think it deserves. One is the story of responsibility. So, both in the report and in the pledoa, I did say that for three years in this country, the competent authority, it was recently the Ministry of Justice, since the new law, the Ministry of State Administration, has not initiated a misdemeanour against any offenders of the Law on Free Access to Information, and has stressed that the law violates only officials. Only the government violates that law, because it is in its structure that way. If we are sending the citizens of this country a message that the political establishment can unpunish the law, then with the same idea that we will establish the rule of law by training the strictness of the citizens of this country is something that is, least of all, an illusion. I remind you that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Access to Information, in which a provision has been put in place that the Trustee can initiate a misdemeanour procedure, which is probably an essential thing if he is already conducting the procedure under the Law on Free Access to Information, that he can initiate a misdemeanour procedure. If that authority were, I could guarantee you that most of the offenders of the law would be punished, then prosecuted. The law was withdrawn from the procedure, in accordance with a good constitutional custom, as everyone withdraws when the new government comes, but has never been returned to the procedure. I repeat, the issue of responsibility for the violation of the law is one of the fundamental issues in establishing a rule of law, especially the question of the responsibility of those who must be preceded by a positive example. The government is there to enforce laws, not break them. The second thing I wanted to talk about, which is very important, especially for the relationship between the institution that I represent and Parliament, is the issue of the efficiency of the institution that I represent. Interestingly, in two ways, in a rather interesting context, although, of course, only informally speaking of some alleged sterility not only of the trustees, but of the supervisory institutions. I stressed in the report, in 93% of cases, trustees' interventions proved successful. In 93% of cases, the one who didn't get the information after talking to the trustee got it. If you refuse a few percent of the impossible execution, so the stupid situation in which the authority only at the end of the procedure says - well, the document was burned, killed in the bombing of NATO, or already in any context disappeared, then it is an extremely high degree of efficiency, high on the criteria of Europe's oldest democracies. Of course, it can't just be a credit to the person who runs that house. It is, in addition, the merits of the powers given to them by this parliament by law and by the trustee indeed has great authority. It adopts final binding implementing acts, because it says so in the law, and it has the right to access any document in this country. As a result, he also had to pass the most rigorous possible security check, but he has the right to access any document to decide whether the public, given the content of the document, has the right to know or not. However, the trustee’s access to the document does not mean that it is he who declares the content of the document. The trustee decides about the law. He doesn't publish the document. The one ordered to give it to has the obligation to give the document. If he doesn't, the trustee doesn't have any real authority. If it's a government or if it's someone else, we come up with a paradoxal situation. By forceful decision by the commissioners, by law passed by this parliament, the government should implement. Then when it comes to the situation of someone saying – well, I don't care that the law passed by the Serbian Parliament says that the act is final, binding and enforceable, then the government would have to force it to give. The government doesn't do that. I guess, ladies and gentlemen, it's quite clear that he's not a trustee of an institution that could do anything about the government. First, because he's even formally incompetent. In the context of the procedure, the government is also excluded from the trustee's jurisdiction. The only one, not in this country, but in any country, that can do something in that context, is you, it's the Serbian Parliament. That thing has to be completely clear. I have to tell you, I was in a situation, fortunately, five or six years ago, and I hope that never happens, I was in a situation as the only trustee in the world to get an appeal from Parliament. I was complained to by the Administrative Board of the Serbian Parliament because he could not receive the salaries of the director of public enterprises. Imagine, the trustee's intervention succeeded. I, using the instruments you gave me, provided that effect, but the whole situation is paradoxical and inadmissible. I appeal to you, for I heard yesterday. Why does not the trustee provide this or that contract? Here's for what I said. The trustee can only use the powers at his disposal, and the powers of parliament, the real influence of parliament, the reputation of parliament are certainly and must be far above the one who has the trustees institutions, however successful. I invite you, I'm absolutely sure that's what you're expected to do, to establish that relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2722	The word has the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality Dr Neven Petrusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2723	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. I would like first of all to express my great regret that yesterday is a session, which, as has already been said here, has passed in a really good atmosphere, which has ended in such a way and has violated Parliament's reputation. I'm joining my colleagues' evaluations. I want to thank everyone for the positive comments, the suggestions, the assessments you gave when it comes to the institution of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Yesterday's discussions, the arguments that have been made and the questions that have been raised, the pointing to the problems that exist, were actually a confirmation to me that this annual report of the trustee was the subject of your attention. Yesterday's discussion of both the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality is the hope that we understand how equality is, how non-discrimination as a principle is actually important. I will remind all of us here, equality and non-discrimination lie at the root of human rights. If we say that we advocate to develop human rights, then, first of all, it means that we all have equal rights and equal opportunities to develop our potentials, to participate in social life and to use all social resources. Of course, as the ideal of the rule of law, such as society without discrimination has not been achieved, it does not take away the meaning of our struggle to advocate the best rule of law and to work preventively, to work using other instruments to combat discrimination in social relations. In the report you have before you, 20 recommendations have been formulated. Given what our insights are in the cases we have worked on and our insights from all other sources, we are fully convinced that if these recommendations are followed, if they are implemented, that this will speed up the process of establishing a society of equal people. I'm sorry that yesterday, one abuse of a parliamentary position was the release of incorrect data from the proceedings that took place. I don't want to comment on it anymore. I hope that this will be properly denied today. I want to believe that we will still have the support of the National Assembly. I'll point only two things here. One is that the National Assembly in the present period is not to the extent that it could, according to our assessment, use the possibility that the laws that come here and are the subject of your debate, go through one rigorous control from the aspect of anti-discrimination regulations, therefore, one previous control that would allow us to not act post-festum, that the Constitutional Court must not determine that some norm is unconstitutional, given that it offends the rules on the prohibition of discrimination. I'm afraid that soon, what happened to one law will happen again, which was adopted in some earlier period, which the trustee said was contrary to anti-discrimination regulations. These are the provisions that regulate the way, I refer to this as an example, which regulates the conditions under which someone can represent you today in court. I'm afraid these conditions are now such that they are not entirely in line with the rules on the prohibition of discrimination. So there is the possibility of seeking the opinion of the trustees, that this kind of analysis where there is doubt that some standard, a condition set, can be discriminatory and that an advance request of opinion and that the legislator himself has previously carried out that control. I'll remind you of something else. Last year, the Assembly adopted a resolution, where it was said that before the law was passed, one previous analysis of the law from the aspect of its impact on the achievement of gender equality, and that after the law began to apply, would be periodically conducted and evaluated after its adoption, what effects it has in practice given from this aspect. I would like the National Assembly to find mechanisms and ask the promoter to carry out that kind of assessment because it is committed to such an act, called Resolution. So once again, we have one way to go, if we really want to deal with a very dangerous social phenomenon that excludes people, which is called discrimination and that we're fighting successfully, to stop it in a valid way. In this business, there is work for all, not only for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, but for all social affairs and only together, including, of course, the National Assembly, we can record the shifts in this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2724	Thank you. As I have made an insight into page 43/2 of the stenogram, I can conclude that no one has applied for the word before the Trustee and that there are no applications under Article 96 and the use of the rights laid down in that article, pursuant to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. I thank you all. We'll continue the session immediately after the change, so the promoter. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in view of the joint single search on item 4 and 5 of the agenda, they are invited to attend today's session, alongside Tatjana Babic, the Director of the Anti-Corruption Agency and Radoslav Sretenović, the President of the State Auditing Institution, the presence of Bojana Mitrović, the Vice-President of the State Auditing Institution, Natalia Ćatović, Gordana Tišma and Miroslav Mitrović, members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, Cvetana Pršić, Duško Pejović, Radulka Urosevic, head of the Office of the State Auditing Institution, Ljubica Janković and Svetlana Toma Anokić, Supreme State Auditor, Mirjana Marković, Secretary of the State Auditing Institution, Iva Vasilić, Head of the Office of the President of the National Auditing Institution, Vesna Pavlovic, Vesna Pavlović, Public Affairs, Public Affairs of the Public Affairs of the National Audit. Branko Lubarda, chairman of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee, Marijana Milosavljevic and Jelena Jovanovic, advisers in the public relations service of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and Dejan Damnjanovic, head of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Office. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 4 and 5 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total debate time for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as well as for this time to be allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs from members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Articles 192 and 193, and in accordance with Article 157(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly open a joint single search on: Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2013, with the report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018 and the Action Plan for its implementation, which was submitted by the Anti-Corruption Agency, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, and a report on the work of the State Auditing Institution for 2013, with a proposal for the conclusion of the Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Radoslav Sretenovic, president of the State Audit Institute, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2725	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, Vice-President and Secretary, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to present to you a report on the work of the DRI for 2013. The members of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending discussed this report on Monday, and now it is an opportunity for the People's MPs to discuss the report. The state audit institution as the highest state body for the audit of public funds in RS is responsible for its work and is subject to supervision by the National Assembly. Our vision is for the institution to be recognizable, reliable, independent and to contribute to parliamentary control and good governance of the public sector, and our mission is to provide professional assurance to the National Assembly and to the citizens of RS that public funds are used effectively, efficiently and economically. Now I'm going to briefly present the structure of the report that makes up nine wholes, I'd say nine chapters. Before all these chapters and overalls there is a summary which includes, among other things, an overview of the most significant irregularities we have identified during the work of the audit entities. The first part speaks of the jurisdiction of the institution. The second one speaks of the objectives of the revision. The third is about the review program, the planned audits. The fourth, which is the most extensive part, talks about the implementation of the planned audit programme in the framework of each sector in the institution, in the light of the sector's results achieved. The report thus states what is the subject of the audit, which are the entities of the audit, then the opinion on the audits carried out, the review of the irregularities identified in the audited entities, the number and type of recommendations made, the follow-up of these recommendations in the form of response reports, the assessment of the response reports and, finally, the effects of the audit and the information on recommendations for amending regulations and laws. Part five is talking about the report on the DRI's work. Part six refers to the financial operations of the institution. The seventh section concerns the capacities of DRI, primarily spatial capacity, human resources, professional training of employees, development of IT infrastructure, co-operation with the National Assembly, activities in the field of fighting corruption, European integration reports, the public work of the institution. The eighth part concerns co-operation with international institutions. The ninth chapter concerns co-operation with the media, means of public information and citizens and the treatment of citizens' demands, applications and information. Dear MPs, before I brief you on the parts of the report, I would like to stress that the institution in 2013 has fully accomplished all the planned tasks. In the case of audit entities on the basis of the audit programme, institutions carried out audits and financial report on business law 56 audit entities in 2013. However, we published 66 reports on the revision of financial reports and the regularity of business, as we also revised the components of the financial reports in the framework of the 2012 audit of the RS final budget. The 2013 audit covered public expenditure and expenditure totalling 2,683 billion dinars. The final accounts of the RS budget were audited. The audits were carried out by four direct and two indirect beneficiaries of budget funds, NBS, public debt to RS within the Ministry of Finance, two agencies, 18 public enterprises, 24 local self-government units, two mandatory social security funds and one clinical centre. Also, in 2013 the first revision of the purpose was carried out. We are now considering objections to the proposal for a report which the responsible persons in the audited entities have told us. The report will be completed when we respect all procedures in the jurisdiction of the institution. When it comes to opinions on the basis of the audit carried out, 66 opinions were expressed, five positive opinions, 59 opinions with a reserve and two abstention opinions. 66 opinions are also expressed for the regularity of business. Five positive opinions have been expressed, 58 opinions are with the reserve and three abstention opinions. Two audits of the response reports estimated that the reports were not credible because no evidence was provided and no recommendations were made through the audits carried out. For those reasons, criminal charges have been filed against the responsible persons in these entities. The most significant irregularities we've identified in the audit entities, and if he wasn't talking about the financial management system itself right now, I'd be looking at the asset list right now. The audit process found that a list of assets worth more than 18.5 billion dinars was not made, of which 12 billion relate to non-financial assets, to the financial assets of 1.9 billion dinars and the liabilities of 4.6 billion dinars. Also, no harmonisation of the claim and obligations of 76.7 billion dinars has been made. The audit found that the audit entities did not comply with the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. The expenditures and expenditures of over 13.1 billion dinars that do not comply with the Budgetary System Act have been made. The audit entities also carried out expenditure on salaries, data and fees which do not comply with the rules. The amount of irregularities is 9.5 billion dinars. They performed services under a contract that did not comply with the Labour Act and the amount of these irregularities was 192 million dinars. When it comes to the balance sheet in the final account, which we have revised, we have found that no assets totalling 1,684 billion dinars have been shown. It refers to non-financial assets of 1,673 billion dinars, money of 2.4 billion dinars and claims of nine shown. What is very interesting is that we have dealt with the revision and application of the Law on Public Procurement, the revision of the regularity of business and the application of the Public Procurement Act in 56 entities or at a sample of 0,005 permeated total entities subject to the audit. We have determined that, contrary to the law, procedures and supplies of goods and services have been carried out over 31 billion dinars. It is concluded contracts without public procurement procedures, negotiating procedures with the publication of a public call, negotiation procedures without publication of a public call. The purchases of goods and services not provided for in the annual plan of 27 entities or 15 billion dinars have also been made. Other irregularities have been identified, I would say, on the following grounds – the granting of loans to the contrary to the applicable procedures, primarily by the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance of 28m euros, the granting of loans or loans for residential needs to PIO insurance amounting to over 185m, the illegal extension of loan repayment deadlines of over 5m euros, the failure to take the collection of credits received by over fivem euros, irregularities in public undertakings not operating in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises and the operation of works of general interest, i.e. did not agree capital capital with the capital shown by the Agency for Business Registers of more than 67 billion dinars. They didn't even enter the capital at the private registry agency, over nine billion dinars. The state of public debt of the RS on 31 December 2012 was 18.2 billion euros, according to the Public Debt Authority 17.6 billion, less than 588 billion euros. I must especially point out that in the process of reviewing almost all the revised units of local self-government, there was a lack of respect for the Budgetary System Act. Of the 24 revised local self-governments in 23, the provisions of the law are not respected, the provisions of these strong apropriations are not respected, commitments have been made at higher levels than allowed, so budgets are committed at two and three times the annual budget amount. One municipality was blocked for as many as 256 days during the calendar year. The state audit institution has filed criminal charges in accordance with the law, but I think it is particularly important to urgently take initiatives to analyse the causes and reasons of this phenomenon and to take all necessary steps to protect public funds on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to end such behaviour in units of local self-government. I point out that strong support of the National Assembly is needed in the efforts of the DRI. There are more than 11,000 possible audit entities in Serbia, and it is important that recommendations are respected in all parts of the public sector, that we do not experience occurrences in a large number of local self-governments to repeat the same mistakes year after year. During 2013, by reviewing the 2012 Financial Report, a total of 1,081 recommendations were made. The most recommended is from the financial management system – 262 recommendations and in the balance area – 248. A significant number of recommendations are also made from the area of public procurement – 87, the list of assets – 56, income and income – 38. We found that 595 recommendations were carried out, 367 were in progress, 33 were not carried out, and for 76 recommendations in four local authorities units we will review the response reports. During 2013, the institution followed and implemented 811 recommendations through response reports and, in that context, the institution drawn up a special report and submitted it to the committee responsible, i.e. the Finance Committee, the organisation of these recommendations. I would like to point out that according to the DRI law, based on the findings that we have come up with in the incentives for the revision, it has adopted recommendations for the adoption of new laws or for the amendment and addition of the laws already in force. The State Audit Authority recommended amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on Pension-Invalid Insurance, the Health Insurance Act, the Health Protection Act, the Law on Health Insurance of Military Insurance Insurance and the Labour Relations Act. We also recommended that a bill be proposed and adopted on salaries in local authorities units and the law on municipal taxes and subsidies, which would eliminate a number of failures and problems encountered in the audit procedures. Also, in line with the institution's competences, due to the existence of a basic suspicion that the infringement was committed in 2013, the institution submitted a total of 208 requests for the initiation of the infringement procedure, 18 charges for the alleged offence and 51 criminal charges. As far as the institution's organisation is concerned, the institution has seven sectors today. The seventh sector was established at the beginning of this year and this is the Quality Methodology and Control Sector. In order to make an effective contribution to the control carried out by the National Assembly in order to promote good governance, the State Auditing Institution must, above all, strengthen its personnel. First of all, we want to increase the number of audit entities from year to year, to extend the scope of the audit, to increase the audited amounts in the subjects, to produce as many quality reports as possible, to remove irregularities and take all measures in our jurisdiction when it comes to breaking the laws and, of course, to make recommendations for amending regulations and laws. So, in order to achieve these results, we need to strengthen the personnel plan. On December 31st 2013, the institution has 201 employees, and of which five members of the Council, 163 are working in audit services, 38 in the following. Of the 163 audit services, six top auditors, sector managers, 17 authorised auditors and nine state auditors work in audit operations. They're the heads of the audit teams. There are also 40 senior advisors, 26 independent advisors, 12 counselors, 38 junior counselors, six trainees and six referents. The institution today uses business space in Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade and Kragujevac. In Belgrade, the institution also uses offices at five separate locations. This presents a problem for us in the communication of employees, increasing our overall operating costs. Such a circumstance did not call into question the implementation of the audit programme, but it additionally burdened our audit teams. In co-operation with the Government, institutions are taking all measures and activities to find adequate and comprehensive business space. As regards the institution's budget, the Law amending and supplementing the 2013 Budget Law defines the institution as a total of 480,995,000 dinars, of which the revenues from the budget relate to 463,472,000 dinars and other sources of 17.523,000 dinars. In 2013, the institution spent funds from the Serbian budget of 413,475,738 dinars and 89,21% compared to the budget and 15,200,000 dinars, respectively. In the context of the accession process of the Republic of Serbia, the institution continued active co-operation with the European Integration Office. The institution regularly reported on the institution's progress and the implementation of recommendations and commitments from EU documents and documents from the Republic of Serbia in this area. We participated in the thematic meetings and plenary sessions. The institution also has its representatives in Stabilisation and Association Subcommittees and in the negotiating teams for Chapter V – Public procurement and Chapter XXXII – Financial Control. During 2013, the institution had numerous contacts and achieved good co-operation with international institutions and organisations, professional associations and top audit institutions of other countries. I would especially like to emphasise the implementation of the Tvining project, titled "Increasing the capacity of the DRI", which the EU is financing with 1.4m euros from IPA 2011 funds. Our partners on the project are the Dutch-British consortium, i.e. the High Audit Institution of the Netherlands as an old partner and the UK as a junior partner. The overall objective of the project is to increase the responsibility and effective management of public funds in the Republic of Serbia. The purpose of the project is to provide further support to the institution and to bring its organisational structure, procedures, practices and overall results in line with international standards and best practice of European institutions. Just to point out that the institution is co-operating with SIGMA and the UNDP on a project to strengthen public finance mechanisms and responsibilities, the US Agency for International Development on a project to reform justice and accountability, the OSCE Mission, the EU delegation to the Republic of Serbia, the Council, the World Bank, the Office for European Integration. Finally, I would like to point out that when it comes to public funds, citizens have legitimate expectations that the National Assembly will, with the help of the DRI, provide effective public supervision and accountability. I believe that the report I presented will in short provide the National Assembly and the Financial Committee with a stable basis for monitoring the spending of public funds for the financial year 2012. The state audit institution has sought to justify the trust that the National Assembly has given it, supporting it in parliamentary supervision of the spending of public funds, and we will do so in the future. Today I am prepared to answer with my associates all your questions concerning the reports we have submitted to the Assembly and other questions regarding the work of the State Auditing Institution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2726	Is there another one of the motions for the report coming forward? Yeah. Tatjana Babic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2727	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency's 2013 report, you can read all the detailed statistics and information on our work results in the previous year in our report. What I want to point out is that in 2013, from previous reporting periods, the fight against corruption was declared the country's top strategic priority. First of all, I need to come from the very role of the Agency in preventing and suppressing corruption, which not only is significant, but I can freely say that it is inevitable in this process. The Agency has been given a number of competences, which are in their nature preventive, control and supervisory nature. In the previous year, the Agency paid particular attention to activities related to conflict of interest, control of property and income of officials and control of financing of political activities, so I would like to maintain and refer to the key results from these areas at this time. We also paid particular attention to the behaviour of citizens and legal persons, for the reason that we received 400 more cases in this area this year, so 400 more representations compared to the total number of representations in all three previous years of the Agency's work together. We've tripled the number of alerts. Now that the conflict of interest has been resolved, the area has seen a significant increase in the number of cases. This year we had 530 more cases compared to the previous year 2012. What is important is that in this area, the Agency sought to act more proactively than in the previous working period, by launching three times as many official procedures as in 2012. In the area of conflict resolution, we submitted a total of 56 requests in 2013 for infringement proceedings and of those 56 requests, and only nine cases of first-degree judgments of misdemeanor courts were reached by the end of the reporting period. In the case of this segment of work, the difficult environment for the Agency's work is the inconsistency of the rules governing the matter of conflict of interest. On this occasion, I'd like to point out something that you've already had a chance to discuss and decide. During 2013, the Agency conducted a number of proceedings against officials who had a second function in the so-called ‘. dependent companies, i.e. companies that are the founders of public enterprises. Therefore, they are located in very responsible functions and also have the opportunity to dispose of public resources and it is necessary to control the spending of these public funds. The Anti-Corruption Agency Committee has taken a stand for the implementation of this part of the law, by interpreting that the legal definition of officials, as it now exists in the applicable law, applies to these persons as well. So, the Republic, an autonomous province, a municipality, the city is indirectly owned by these companies. However, this must be known to you, the National Assembly has adopted an authentic interpretation of this provision by taking the view that these persons are not covered by the definition of public officials. The agency, of course, changed its practice and simply stopped or suspended it in those procedures. We will now, and it will be by the end of June, submit an initiative for the practical adoption of a new law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, certainly suggesting that these persons be involved in the definition of functionaries. I am taking this opportunity to ask you to seriously consider this initiative, because it is really of public interest that there is control over the work of these officials. When it comes to the control of property and income of public officials in 2013, we controlled a total of 599 reports, of which 282 reports whose control was not completed in 2012 and a total of 317 reports, according to the established annual verification plan and by application, or by official duty in the event that the functioner did not report the property or gave false property data. We have therefore controlled 287 reports of MPs from the National Assembly since 2012. Reports by judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Economic Court of Appeal, the Court of Commerce in Belgrade and the acting president of Serbia's economic courts. The remaining controls, so 30 controls were extraordinary. So we started them and ran them in cases of officials suspected of not reporting complete and accurate information about their assets and incomes. As a result of the controls carried out in 2013 nine criminal charges were filed for the purpose of the criminal offence of not reporting property or providing false property information. Also, 20 reports have been submitted to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and other competent authorities for the existence of suspicions that officials have committed other crimes not provided for by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, but by the Criminal Code or by some other law. It's about most often taking and giving bribes, money laundering, tax evasion, trade in influence, abuse of official position. The comparisons work in the previous three years of the Agency's work, so, 2010, 2011, and 2012, a total of three criminal charges were filed. So, in 2013, we filed nine criminal charges. Given that these reports are practically criminal charges, this means that in the previous year in 2013, the Agency was almost ten times more active in the area of property control and income of public officials, and this is essential control of the assets of public officials' income compared to all three previous years together. I would also say that in this area a total of 450 procedures have been initiated before the Agency for violations of the law and more than 50% of these procedures relate to intolerance, or not the timely submission of a report on the property and income of officials. This unfortunately speaks of a number of officials treating their legal obligations rather recklessly, which is particularly worrying when we have in mind that the obligation to report property in our legal system has existed since 2004 or 2005, when the Republic Committee on the resolution of conflicts of interest, which the officials were also obliged to report on the property. In the area of property control and public officials' income, a total of 168 requests for the initiation of infringement proceedings were filed, and 15 of them were convicted in the course of the reporting period. What is worrying is that fines are imposed at the limit of the legal minimum or in certain cases even move below the legal minimum, i.e. to mitigate penalties prescribed by law. That's certainly not good from a preventive point of view. So to think about it, criminal policy needs to be tightened. In order to make it more effective, more effective to implement the law, the Agency sought in 2013 to establish as close as possible co-operation with all state authorities that have the data needed by the Agency to carry out the tasks of its competence, especially when it comes to the control of the property and income of public officials and to the control of the financing of political activities. So, we have established close co-operation with the competent prosecutors, especially the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Anti-Corruption Department, the Criminal Courts, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Tax Administration, and with the Agency for Economic Registers and the Central Deposit and Value Clearing Charter, the Central Deposit Register and the value clearing charter, we have introduced an electronic data exchange based on that data exchange line, which significantly speeds up the control procedures. In order to improve co-operation and the systematic fight against corruption, because only such a fight against corruption can result, the Agency initiated coordination meetings of all relevant state authorities attended by the highest representatives of all state authorities in 2013. These co-ordination meetings discuss issues in the field of fight against corruption and exchange the most important information, both when it comes to concrete cases and when it comes to systemic problems. So far, six such meetings have been held, where, for example, problems of health and education corruption have been addressed. A number of specific meetings have been held on the subject of corruption in education, which have resulted in concrete recommendations to improve the normative and institutional framework in this area. What the Agency's experience is saying is that it's one of the biggest problems in the field of education nepotism. As regards the control of the financing of regular activities, as well as the activities developed during the election campaigns, in 2013, the Agency presented the control of the financing of political activities to the public in two printed reports, one of which relates to the cost of the 2012 election campaign, and the second presented the findings of the 2012 annual financial reports of political entities. A total of 335 requests for infringement proceedings have been filed in this segment of work, of which in 28 cases there have been convictions, of which eight have become legal. This is very important because of the application of a specific sanction provided for by the Law on the financing of political activities, which is the adoption of a solution to suspend funds for the financing of the political party in the coming calendar year. In order for the Agency to make such a solution, it is necessary that the court's decision be not only judgmental, it is necessary to impose a fine and make the court's decision legal. Unfortunately, in only two cases, we were able to apply this very important legal sanction, because in several cases a warning has been made, in which case the Agency cannot make such a solution. The obstacles we faced in this segment of work were numerous. First of all, there is a discrepancy of applicable laws, data exchange with other state authorities and legal entities is not sufficiently effective, not all are ready to meet the Agency's requirements on an up-to-date basis, and we have had major problems with obtaining data relating to responsible persons in political entities, which are actually blamed in a misdemeanour procedure. In order to make the Agency's work in the field of controlling the financing of political activities more effective, it is necessary to improve the legal framework in this area above all. So that's exactly what this is all about – the amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities. But what is very important is that the Agency would be able to carry out more effective essential control, it is necessary to provide for a criminal responsibility to conceal the source of funding and for a responsible person in a political entity. The current Law on the financing of political activities provides for criminal responsibility only for the donor of funds, in order to prove criminal responsibility, it is necessary to prove the nature of the donor's intention, which cannot be proved by the fact that the political entity has not reported some information. It is necessary to do so, if we are to achieve some effects on the fundamental control of the financial reports of political entities. Also, another obstacle we are facing is the fact that we are not an authorised legislator, which is why it is one of the most significant obstacles to our work. Last March, the agency initiated amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which it initiated based on its experience in the application of this law. Unfortunately, this initiative has not been discussed so far, and if we had been authorized by the legislator, simply here, the Assembly would certainly be obliged to consider this initiative. In any case, given that a new National Anti-Corruption Strategy has been adopted in the meantime and that the Agency's practice for those years and a few days has shown that some other legislative solutions need to be improved and improved, we will be newing this initiative by the end of June with consultation with EU experts, and this will, given the number of amendments and additions needed, be practically an initiative to pass a new law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. On this occasion, I would not hold back on all these necessary changes, as very soon you will also get a detailed initiative from the Anti-Corruption Agency, as well as the resolution ministries. As regards the regulations and risks of corruption in regulations themselves, the Agency analyses both the risks and the resolution ministries, including the committees of the National Assembly, delivers its opinions on the risks of corruption in the regulations, and in the previous year we analysed the risks of corruption in 20 draft laws, two draft laws and two draft regulations. Unfortunately, I must say that the effect in this field of work was not satisfactory, or very modest, because the authorised legislators are not obliged to take our opinion into account. However, given that the new National Strategy provides that all legislators will be obliged to apply a methodology for the analysis of the risk of corruption in the regulations to be developed by the Agency and that the Agency will then give an opinion on the methodology applied and that this opinion will be an integral part of the bill proposal, then the National Assembly will, in addition to the draft laws, also consider the opinion of the Agency, so it is important that this important anti-corruption mechanism is recognised in the new National Strategy. I would also point out that at this point, the Agency has 77 employees of the total estimated number of employees, which is 123. When it comes to the Agency's budget, I must say that 98% of the Agency's budget applies to employees' salaries and current costs, so that we continue to rely to the greatest extent on donor support, so that we can implement all the programmes and activities that we are obliged to implement in accordance with the strategy and action plan and the law. What I'm saying is that the Agency is located in a space that's enough to accommodate 95 employees, even if we have the opportunity to fill all the systematicized jobs and get everything right, and to come across an understanding of all the competent state authorities, to fill those facilities, we have no place to put those employees. Finally, I would like to point out certain segments of the Agency's work in which, in my opinion, it is possible to significantly improve our co-operation, the co-operation of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the National Assembly. First, the Agency has one of the important responsibilities, which is to supervise the implementation of the National Strategy for the fight against corruption and the accompanying action plan. The Agency shall report in detail to the National Assembly. Under the current law, the report is the Annex to the Annual Work Report, which is submitted by 31 March of the current year for the previous year. The National Assembly is under obligation to consider the report and to draw certain conclusions. I believe that you are all familiar with the conclusions of the European Commission, which point out that during the previous period, the National Assembly has not sufficiently considered reports and recommendations of independent institutions, and I will now quote part of their recommendations that: "The National Assembly must develop a more proactive approach when it comes to considering and monitoring the recommendations of independent bodies". So far, practice has shown that, unfortunately, year after year, the Agency repeats the same recommendations, that the National Assembly has sufficiently achieved its control function in this regard. The new strategy predicts that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will change. The follow-up procedure of the Agency will be clearly defined and the National Assembly will be empowered to take action in the event that the executive authority does not implement it, and the Government will, on its part, have an obligation to report within six months of the adoption of the conclusions of the National Assembly on what has been done to implement those conclusions. The Institute of Public Listening is of paramount importance when it comes to the control function of the National Assembly over the executive authority and the Institute, if effectively implemented, could also be effective in terms of the recommendations of the Anti-Corruption Agency. The current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly now stipulates that committees in charge can organise public hearings and ask for explanations from representatives of the executive authority. This could certainly become an important control mechanism, where the co-operation of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the National Assembly would have effects in curbing corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2728	Thank you. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the National Assembly MP for the vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the decision of the Republic Election Commission to assign the mandate of the MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Slobodan Home, elected from the Election List BORIS TADIĆ - New Democratic Party - Zeleni, League of Social Democrats Vojvodina - Nenad Canak, Together for Serbia, VMDK, Together for Vojvodina, the Democratic Left of Roma. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and the Reports of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I am confirming the mandate of MP Slobodan Home. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. Dear People's MP, please, under Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the national envoy in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! “ I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. Do the committees in charge want to hear the words, Proposers? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here and today we continue to work on independent bodies, so I would also like to exchange some experiences and see what is the essence of their reports as well as with the management of the Agency, the State Auditor. The first thing I would like to say is to refer to the constitutional jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and what these are essentially independent bodies and often some regulatory bodies. The role of the National Assembly is primarily legislative and control. The National Assembly does not have the capacity to perform its own control role. That's why we have independent bodies that we've entrusted with our public authority to do this control role for us and for our sake. I am saying this because at no point in time, at no time would I want the National Assembly to give up its original powers, but only to trust them because MPs are directly the bearers of the sovereignty of Serbian citizens who chose them in the last elections. These are the foundations of some political democracy. I fully agree that the various authorities who carry out these tasks for the name and on behalf of the National Assembly, because not to do so on behalf of the National Assembly, would not even submit reports to the National Assembly, have certain problems in their work, especially when it comes to irresponsible state authorities and irresponsible individuals in state bodies, or even those carrying out certain public functions, which are very much tied up for the sake of the National Assembly and who are subject to the control of the work of the National Assembly. That is why we have these reports, so that all MPs will inform themselves about these problems and in that part that is legislative activity and the problems are resolved even when it comes to the supervision of the work of some authorities, and we have control even of the prosecutions, why they are not acting, why they are not acting on reports filed by the state auditors and why they are not acting on reports submitted by colleagues from the Anti-Corruption Agency. The purpose of all these debates is essentially to improve legislation and to make all those who are subordinate to the National Assembly fully cooperate with all the state bodies that the National Assembly has entrusted with its control role. I have listened and I wish that if something is not done soon when it comes to criminal charges filed by the State Prosecutor or the Agency, that the Justice Committee, which has the right to call on the Republic Public Prosecutor to inform itself of the state of those cases whether they are in the process, whether they are already legally completed and already referred to the Court or rejected, with the prosecutor not having the obligation to write an explanation, but the competent committee will have to write it. Only in this way is this greatest evil that has struck Serbia around this corruption can be brought and brought into a state that can be acceptable to the final eradication, but there is a need for co-operation between the Agency and the DRI, and the public prosecutors, and others who lead this act and, of course, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it is the one who has an assessment and it is she who should, if something is not regulated by law and obstructing law enforcement, bring such a situation to be resolved. I also listened carefully to the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and with many of your proposed amendments, I agree, which should be included in the legislation, but we must be aware that we, as MPs and the National Assembly, too, have certain restrictions. These restrictions are called – the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to pass a law with the best intentions, and be later declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional. However, I must tell you that it is only our choice, my personal and fellow MPs to deal with politics and to be public officials. Think about it a little bit, if we don't violate someone's other constitutional rights, because if some part of the law we're about to pass is declared unconstitutional, it'll question those very good characteristics of the law. I also agree that the measures taken by the Agency, especially when the appointments of public officials and bans that can be imposed exist, but as I said, the National Assembly has another role, which is an election role. So he has the right to appoint persons to certain functions, so as far as I know, and auditors etc. Now I ask the question – what if the National Assembly gets a full biography of a candidate, is aware of all the duties and functions it has, the committee responsible for constitutional issues and legislation says that everything is in accordance with the law and the legal system, the committee of the National Assembly says that everything is in accordance with the law, the National Assembly is the one who authentically interprets the law, says that everything is in accordance with the law and chooses that functionary, and then the Agency finds that it has a conflict of interest? Didn't we mix up some legal jurisdiction? After the appointments of the National Assembly to be in conflict of interest, it may not be possible, if it enters into office in the meantime, after the appointment carried out by the National Assembly. To make the matter worse, neither the responsible committees were familiar with the procedure, and that is the communication that seems to be missing in this whole story. Is there supposed to be a business obligation for public listening? Sure, I don't mind. But I do not believe that any board president in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, from any area, would refuse the Anti-Corruption Agency to come to maintain public hearing, nor the state auditor, nor the Citizens' Protector and everything else. It seems to me that it was one communication problem again. In general, when we write laws, unfortunately, we have one problem that often in the past laws that were inapplicable in practice, or laws were passed, that those who had to implement them, in order to reach their goal, must break the law. Let's finally put it in one legal framework for the law to be and feasible, applicable, in accordance with all international regulations and standards. The previous Law on the financing of political parties was such. The current law is better, but he's not great, and he has great flaws. It seems to me that in the draft of this law, I can't blame you for anything, which was passed in 2010, it seems to me, or in 2011, that the SNS MPs were then excluded from passing that law and I don't mind if someone thinks I'm vain, but we've learned a lot by implementing the old law which is not to be found in the new one, and it's found again. So, we are prepared to put all these proposals made by the Agency and made by the State Auditor in a certain legal framework, to make it acceptable for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and what is most important, to be enforceable. If we make a law that cannot live in practice, then we have problems and those who need to control the implementation of that law and those who enforce that law. I can only inform the National Assembly, as well as the colleagues present here from the Agency and the DRI, that the Finance Committee should have appointed a subcommittee within the next few days to deal exclusively with recommendations from the authority of the board of all independent bodies regarding the amendment of the law, so that they can perform their full function in the right sense of the word. In advance, I tell you that for almost two years now, anyone who wants to improve legislation in the Republic of Serbia, to bring out their problems if they implement some law and oversee law enforcement, does not have to knock on the open door. You are welcome, because we believe that together with the prosecution, together with the DRI, along with the Anti-Corruption Agency, along with the competent committees and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, of course and the MUP, we can finally root out in full capacity a single evil called corruption and that has destroyed our country and brought both the state and its citizens literally to the beggar stick. That is why the Finance Committee has also concluded that your report is being adopted at the plenary session and that, in line with the recommendations, the National Assembly and the Financial Committee continue their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2730	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2731	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished representatives of independent regulatory bodies, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, and yesterday we were able to consider proposals for conclusions on the review of the annual reports of some other independent regulatory bodies. Today we do it when it comes to the Anti-Corruption and DRI Agency. It seems to me, if only a yearly look at it, that following the annual report by the Citizens' Protector, Mr Sasa Jankovic, the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency is the most extensive. Of course, in this place, with the observation that the size of any document, whatever its name is, is not also a relevant indicator of its very quality, and it is also commendable that these reports in its work, as an integral part or as a single type of contribution, contain a report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, as well as an Action Plan for its implementation, which is always more important than something that itself bears the name of strategies and itself without an action plan, represents a list of good wishes. On the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, attended by Mrs Babic, we have touched on many topics. First of all, I think we've opened up some questions that the Agency can ask itself over and over again, and that the Agency's work can always be challenged, starting with the question of registering property cards, the fear that, let's say, in the reporting of assets, or property cards, such information can be leaked to the public, which, on the other hand, can be fearing and opening up one potential possibility that this particular property of a function will be the next day, don't give God the opportunity to perform some criminal act at the expense of one of the officials, up to the often asked question - whether the MP who performs the function of a MP in two or more terms, and there is no change of property, should again be filled in the form and re-repelling his entire property or is sufficient to make only through the notice that there is no change and thus put an end to that question. It's a good thing you gave instructions in this conference that you sent to all MPs and to us, to tell the elderly, to whom this is not the first convocation, but new with all those explanations that are contained on the CD, which have been forwarded absolutely to all the MP groups. It's a good practice, a good way to get to know each other, and for reasons why, just in the previous session, I have to notice, almost all of the parliamentary groups, we've come across completely conflicting views on this issue. I think it was mostly a dispute, because we were getting conflicting information from the agency, so the Anti-Corruption Agency. We have also touched on the questions - how can the MP at the same time perform the function of a public enterprise? We had such people's messengers, we still have such people's messengers. One of the responsibilities of the Anti-Corruption Agency is to deal with the issue of conflicts of interest and incompatibility of the function of the MP with other functions. That is, I will refer to the previous National Assembly meeting, flagrantly violated and the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, but therefore such compatibility of functions has been enabled, but therefore, for example, a committee member in some local self-government, such a view that he cannot be a deputy of the circuit secretary, to all the informal issues that I have been able to take advantage of your presence. What do MPs now do from those flooded areas, who have, say, lost all property, immobilized and mobile, who are the other owners of the immovable property, but in such a way, except that they are formally enrolled in the equities of property rights, and essentially have foundations and bare walls, or, say, no more moving things, cars, things that are useful? From here is my question which I have asked you – should all of us who come and have an MP here from the flooded areas take and check out our entire property? Of course, there are a lot of questions that could be asked in this place, but I'm not going to, because I don't think it's time or place. What we all agree on, you in front of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and so did the MPs, we agreed, I suppose on other committees such a question has been opened, which is that the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, like this, contains a lot of shortcomings, contains a lot of legal gaps, opens up the possibility of abuse, and it seems to me that no one today is satisfied, nor are you, who are forced to act under that law, but neither are we, as MPs. When I say MPs, I mean not only us, but any officials on whom this law is being implemented, but you do, because it falls within your jurisdiction. It is only one segment of competence that the Agency performs and which it has in achieving public interest in curbing corruption, along with the above mentioned, which is the incompatibility of public functions and conflicts of interest, but also what is also worth mentioning - the control of the financing of political entities. Of course, the responsibilities of the Anti-Corruption Agency are those directed and I would say that these are the responsibilities that have been managed solely for the purpose of achieving general objectives. I won't list them, since you specifically stated it in your annual report, and they are decadently listed in the law that you fall under and under which you are authorized to act. The fact is, I'm really familiar with technical possibilities, I've been in the offices of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and I know what conditions you're working on. I am fully aware of the fact that the Anti-Corruption Agency, in addition to the spatial, technical conditions, financial, spatial problems it faced, did not just mean this year and the past and the previous year, in 2013 make good moves. I think good things are worth saying in public. When I say good moves, that's what you stated in your annual report on work, which is that the Anti-Corruption Agency was the one who initiated and submitted an initiative to change the law, which I don't think about any good, and is still in the legal power, and I don't just think for the reason that you did it to create some better conditions for yourself and to make your work more effective, but also to make the regulations, that is, to make it clearer and more explicit and decidently certain, understandable to the citizen himself, and not only to those to whom they apply. That, I think, would have avoided that reach we could see in the last term, which is that instrument called authentic interpretation. However, here I have to make one criticism, which is that the Agency itself, to put it this way, has been wandering in the interpretation of certain provisions, so, for example, certain legal provisions regarding the status of officials have been extended beyond what is stated in the legal provision itself. I hope, at least this is my hope, that some new legal solution, which will be found in the assembly procedure as soon as possible, will contain rigorous rules of responsibility for state officials, because I am standing in that view that such rules must be rigorous, that they must be familiar with all citizens. In the last session, we first read the first report on the control of the costs of political entities. This concerned the election campaign, which took place in 2012. All MP groups were able to get acquainted with your thoroughly processed material, which concerned the 2012 elections, and yet you listed and included this report by all political entities. This is quite commendable, and in a very systematic way, but of course the shortcomings resulting from such an election campaign with a decadent indication, starting with the legal provisions that have been violated, through whose municipal boards have not opened up dedicated accounts for the purpose of the election campaign, so let's say until the selection that political entities have met all the conditions for the initiation of infringement proceedings. Some of the procedures have been initiated. That's what we're familiar with, at least I'm familiar with it, and I hope my colleagues are too. I am pleased to say, in this place, that the National Assembly in the previous session, at least in some studies, I consider it appropriate to study every CESID survey, has reached one conclusion, which is that it is slowly restoring trust in the National Assembly, to the National Assembly President's institute, to restore trust in the MPs as legislators. If we're going strictly by the letter of the Constitution, the holders of the constitutional and legislative authorities. I'm glad we started with the last call we started to strengthen the Institute of Public Listening, where they found their place, both the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI, since we were able to monitor the public hearings on which you were present independently of the topic that could be heard in the small hall of this high House. When it comes to your Report on the marked increase in the number of citizens' performances received, it seems to me to be a fact, but also a confirmation that we still do not have enough institutional mechanisms built, and that is also a confirmation of something else, the mistrust of citizens in the existing and I think it should be made public. With all due respect, I don't think that in your Report you should have cited this as a reason for growing public visibility, because, in fact, if we go by logic, on the other hand, the unrecognizableness of the built legal system in the country of Serbia and the unrecognizableness or even the presence of the rule of law in our country. Of course, in this place I have to mention someone who is really valuable, and this is Mrs. Verica Barać, who was headed by the Anti-Corruption Agency and who, in my opinion, seemed enough to personify the entire Agency. I think that her work is absolutely well known and I think it was a woman who had the courage and the courage to present in those unforgiving times everything that was launched today, first of all, I mean controversial privatisations. It takes an amendment to the existing Act of the Agency, and I think we'll all agree on that. I would say here, too, some of my opinions, which is, personally, I would like you to, say, the Anti-Corruption Agency to function in the way it seems in some neighbouring countries. Let us take an example of Slovenia, more specifically your pandan in Slovenia, which is the Commission for Prevention or, excuse me, I don't know Slovenian, but I will call it that, preventing the commission, or preventing the commission, so that you, for example, are actually a mixture of agencies and agencies, but also a DRI. There's a kind of supervisory type, that you have such an aportal app. Of course, I know you're short on technical options, so you don't, but I think you're missing some other options, but we'll talk about it some other time. This project of transparency where, at any time of the day, anyone who is interested, since the data is updated daily, can see the consumption of absolutely their state money, can see the property of every state official, can see how public procurement tenders are conducted, can see how much the ministry as the holder of the executive government spent money. It was done there in a way that a kind of tripartite co-operation was created that I would present as the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Business Registers Agency and the National Bank. If there was such a connected system with us, we could all follow what we're most interested in at any moment, and that's where the state money is spent. I think that such co-operation that has been established in Slovenia and its operation provides a comprehensive transparency in the widest extent. Of course, in front of the national Gopac, since we have also had workshops with the Anti-Corruption Agency, but also with the DRI, I think we have achieved quality co-operation in the past and on my part, as the then Deputy Gopac, and now President Gopac, I thank you for this cooperation, since, as I have stated, it was good, and I hope that good things should not be changed. Finally, I fully understand your request to make one direct insight into the documents of absolutely all state authorities. This is what the Agency, after all, should be doing, because precisely because of the above-mentioned shortcomings in the existing Law and the controllers themselves cannot verify the accuracy of the data, because it is one thing when a public official tells you something or informs you and fills the form, and the other thing is when you go to the field and you get a real and factual insight into the state, you can see whether it is a confirmation of what is stated. Since I have little time left, I will finish here and commend the Agency's report on the fight against corruption and briefly refer to the DRI report. As the highest state body of reviewing public funds, the DRI is that which was first called to give the citizens of our country an introduction to whether public funds are being spent rationally, whether they are being spent efficiently and whether they are being spent in full. The report below shows that the DRI has carried out audits of the financial reports of the regularity of 56 entities, that the audits carried out are four direct and two indirect beneficiaries of the budget, NBS, public debt of RS, 18 public enterprises, 14 units of local self-government, funds of compulsory social security, etc. It's all explicit and decadently stated in the report you filed. With the conclusion that we have done your job as an Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in fact, come into the meeting and have agreed on your request to complete 75 seats, whose completion is planned and which is envisaged, which is in line with your adopted staff plan for 2014, I hope that, after the realization of the fullness of these vacancies and indeed increase the number of entities of the audit, because I think you should do so and do so in that direction, because only by increasing them, I am still talking about the entities of the audit and more comprehensive audits of financial reports and operations in this way and contribute to the savings of the funds at absolutely all levels, but also in order to express whether their business is responsible, to show the results of their business and cash flows and to all those mechanisms that are at your disposal, and you have such mechanisms. First of all, I mean applying for a misdemeanor procedure, and as we could hear 208 such requests you filed in 2013 against 228 persons, filing an application for a commercial offence, but finally criminal charges that were 51, and as much as I remembered from the Report against 2 persons. My advice is that when it comes to new audit entities, you start with local self-government units. Don't limit yourself to these 24 and I sincerely hope that in the future, in the next report, that number, at least as far as local self-government units are concerned, will exceed this amount of 24. I'll try to finish after my time's up. I hope that you will continue to do what you should do in accordance with your powers and I will not praise what you have done, because my work is meant, but with the desire to continue and again next year we will be able to read your comprehensive reports completely, and certainly the DHSS SPO parliamentary group will vote in favour of the Report and the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2732	Since there are no others reported, he answered for his word... Please, sign in. National MP Dr Branko Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2733	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, for the sake of the public and citizens of Serbia, I would like to state the fundamental competences of the Anti-Corruption Agency – the achievement of public interest and the repression of corruption, two – the support of citizens in the disclosure of corruption by individuals or groups, regardless of their economic, social and political status, three – education of public sector representatives and other target groups including the general public on issues relevant to anti-corruption activities, four – the provision of mechanisms for the establishment and improvement of integrity in the institutional and regulatory framework. Here, under the term "integrity" we mean the ability to self-evaluate individual operators to define the risks of corruption and to create a plan of measures to combat corruption at a certain time interval. Five - presenting the Agency's work in public and international co-operation. The Anti-Corruption Agency's report noted that their previous 2013 report differed significantly from the previous 2012 report, because the fight against corruption has become a strategic priority for the state. The National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Action Plan for its implementation introduces new obligations for the Agency and envisions the measures to be published in the Agency's work. The Agency's report says that this is why it is necessary to bring about appropriate amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and the Law on the financing of political activities as soon as possible. In 2013, the Agency presented its first report on the control of the costs of political organisations during the 2012 electoral cycle. In the previous year, the number of citizens' performances increased, as citizens grew confidence in this institution and the number of procedures initiated under official duty four times higher than in 2012. The 2013 Anti-Corruption Agency site for the first time published nearly 8,000 processed reports on property and the revenues of officials. 142 requests have been filed for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure, which in 2012 did not exist at all. Joint meetings are held with other independent state bodies to co-ordinate work in the fight against corruption. The new activity is also the integrity plans submitted to the Agency by a certain deadline last year and registered with the Agency in the list of entities, which have not produced and supplied the plans. In its report, the agency identified a number of recommendations addressed to the National Assembly and the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, aimed at a more effective fight against corruption. The Agency's recommendations to the National Assembly, with a view to improving the normative framework, in order to fight corruption more effectively, are as follows. These recommendations have also been accepted by the relevant judicial and financial committees. For the sake of getting to know the public and citizens of Serbia, I think they should be apostrophe of them anyway, so I'm going to bring them up to date. It shall be prescribed that the public function to which the official has entered is contrary to the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act shall cease under the force of the law unless the competent authority makes the appropriate decision within eight days of the date of the adoption of the decision of the Agency. To provide for a longer limitation period for infringements provided for by the Agency Act, and in accordance with the United Nations Convention against Corruption. To exclude the possibility of performing more than one public function, the exemptions will be allowed only in cases provided for by law and not in other regulations. To extend the obligation to report assets to all blood relatives of public officials in the right line. Authorise the Agency to direct and unlimited access to national authorities’ records and documentation. Extend the obligation to supply documents and information at the request of the Agency, the Bank, financial organisations and companies. The Agency's mandate to organise public hearings to discuss issues relating to conflict of interest, illicit influences on public officials and the financing of political activities. Prohibit a ban on the authorities responsible for nominating a public office to propose a candidate to whom one of the laws of the prescribed measures has been imposed by the Agency. To prescribe an obligation for all officials holding more than 3% of shares or shares in a legal person to report, not only their participation in that legal person, but also the actions and shares of that legal person in other legal entities. It is necessary to abandon the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister from the list of authorised proposings for members of the Agency's board and thereby reduce the influence of the executive and political parties. More detailed arrangements on how and when the Agency acts on the concepts indicating corrupt actions in the conduct of the public authorities' bodies. Power the Agency to act on anonymous performances. Obligate all public officials to attend training in the field of ethics and integrity. To prescribe the infringement responsibility of the manager for failing to adopt the integrity plan. Agree the Law on the financing of political activities with the Law on Payments, in a work relating to the opening of accounts for regular work and election campaign in groups of citizens. To prescribe a new criminal act of not reporting or false reporting of election campaign costs. Prescribe political entities to the ban on the practice of humanitarian and similar activities. Predict more efficient mechanisms against officials acting contrary to the Agency's Law. It is prescribed that the reasons for the draft law as their mandatory element contain an analysis of the risk of corruption and oblige the Government to deliver draft laws and regulations to the opinion and the Agency, and that these opinions apply to the proposals of the laws referred to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to Report DRI, it stresses the need to increase the degree of symbiosis between DRI and the National Assembly itself. In his report, Mr Sretenovic stressed what the mission and vision of the DRI is, but it should be repeated again because of the public. The DRI mission, as the highest and independent state body of audit and public funds, is to provide professional confidence to the National Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that public funds are used efficiently, efficiently and economically, and should be undermined. The DRI vision is to become a recognizable, reliable and independent institution aimed at contributing to parliamentary control and good governance in the public sector. This annual report lists a number of irregularities seen in the audit procedures in municipalities and cities, in state and local enterprises, but in part in the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget. It is not possible to speak concretely about all these irregularities now, because there is a large number of data relating to these irregularities, but what needs to be repeated again because of the public, is that the main recommendations of the report are: that the Law on State officials and other regulations are consistently applied in the National Assembly; that the Ministry of Regional Development set up a register of projects of the National Investment Plan; that the Ministry of Education adopts a regulation on criteria for establishing the level of study costs at higher schools and higher schools of vocational studies; that it initiates amendments and additions to the Law on the founding of the system of education and education in terms of regulation of matter, part-time associates abroad; that the Ministry of Labour of Decisions approving the funding of projects selected by public invitation is made in accordance with the Regulation on funds for the promotion of programmes of public interest by the associations. The key recommendations for removing irregularities in financial operations are the following: establishing an internal control system, adopting an internal act on the type, manner and right to use representation services, giving gifts, using official cars and mobile phone costs. Demarcation and clear regulation of individual liability in determining, controlling and charging source public revenues. Recognising, recording and paying costs, expenditure based on credible accounting documents. Planning of public procurement in accordance with financial plans, establishing and recording the value of public enterprises' capital and companies whose founder is local government. Important provisions of the National Strategy against Corruption and Action Plan, i.e. The measures to be applied are: strengthening the capacity of the DRI to carry out an audit of parliamentary political parties, establishing records of the conduct of criminal courts, prosecutors and courts of general jurisdiction on irregularities identified in the DRI reports. All of this suggests that both of these independent bodies worked studioically to prepare these reports that were practically verified on the relevant resolution committees. The very fight against corruption and the practical revision of the public incomes of the Republic of Serbia are the foundation, practically further development of our republic. We can now say here – establishing these two independent institutions is a completely different climate in Serbia. Serbia before the establishment of these independent institutions was one thing, after your establishment, we have each other's Serbia. All of these irregularities in your reports indicate that despite the existence of these two important institutions that do their job, responsible and professionally, there is still an increased outflow of funds, primarily through public procurement and through some other types of abuse. By strengthening your functioning, it means, by strengthening the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and by bringing our country into one level with other countries, which we can say and claim to be regulated countries, where the practical revenues of citizens who flow into the budget are spent in an adequate way. Of course, the SDPS Parliament Club will support your reports and offer any assistance in your future work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2734	Thank you. A mandated representative of the SPS, MP of the people, Nedjo Jovanovic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2735	Thank you to the chairman and respected representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency, DRI, before I engage in a debate on the agenda point, which represents a unique search of yesterday's and today's meetings, and for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia only one correct information, a statement. And yesterday and today, we're just reviewing the reports that are here in front of us, but for them, we're voting. It is only the conclusions proposed by the resolutions on the basis of the reports submitted by the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI. Why am I pointing to this? Because yesterday at the same meeting, and today it was our vote to vote on the reports. No, we'll review the reports, and by adopting the conclusions, of course, we'll also support those reports. I must immediately point out that the SPS parliamentary group is unequivocally supporting and will vote in favour of the conclusions proposed by the resolution committees as authorised, legitimate proposings, which therefore gives support to the reports that you have submitted, i.e. the premonitions, which we are discussing and which we are considering at today's meeting. Now I would refer to a concrete report by the Agency and the DRI, so let's first start with the role of the Agency, from what is the aim of the Anti-Corruption Agency. What the SPS parliamentary group particularly points out is that the main objective of the Anti-Corruption Agency is to combat corruption through the protection of public interest. The fight against corruption is a permanent process which, as such, cannot in any case be out of the reach of the observation of those who are in charge of fighting corruption, and above all, I think of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and therefore for the institutions of the state as well as for the entire state apparatus. Why am I saying this? Because there is no country in the world, even with the most pronounced democratic principles and postulates, where the system institutions work impeccably, where there is a healthy, legal structure, and that the risk of corruption is completely avoided. It has not yet happened, it will not happen and that is why even the fight against the risk of corruption and what a significant fight it is. At the same time, it is one of the strategic goals of the government of the Republic of Serbia both in the previous session, and especially in this meeting, where the fight against corruption is set as something that is not only imperative but also primarily in the government of Serbia's strategy of action. Do we agree on something that is busy today as a unique attitude? Of course, we agree, and this is an urgent need for new system solutions, for the adoption of new laws or at least amendments and additions to existing laws, especially when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Why are we pointing this out? The SPS parliamentary group undoubtedly supports the recommendations, but not all of them listed in the Anti-Corruption Agency's report. Again, the question arises - why not everything. Because those recommendations, which are crucial, must undoubtedly be supported because they achieve this objective that I have pointed out, which is to combat corruption through the protection of public interest, and thus the task of solving both public functions and conflicts of interest in each situation. However, recommendations also show something that needs to experience a specific type of analysis. How current is the Anti-Corruption Agency Act now agreed or possibly colluded with another system solution? I think it is in collegiate with other system solutions, at least in one part, especially when we're talking about the Personal Data Protection Act. However, in this direction, all provisions which are unspecified, inconsistencies, incomplete and which could in one part delegate the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act and, in the other part, remain in the scope of the conflict with the same provisions, which requires that each provision be clearly specified and regulated. The SPS parliamentary group, including myself, is undoubtedly clearly intensified by the Anti-Corruption Agency to extend the legitimacy of public officials or status, but I fear that this extension to one round that will be quite large carries certain risks. It is perfectly clear that anyone who has state resources and anyone who has a management function in a state apparatus must be subject to the monitoring of relevant services and the Anti-Corruption Agency. This circle of persons should in no way go into an indefinite manner to create one authority of the Anti-Corruption Agency, or even to usurp some of the competences that are in the jurisdiction of other bodies of the institution. In addition, certain provisions in the Anti-Corruption Act are inescapably and now require the necessary need for changes or at least more precise systematicisation or normisation. I'll just call Article 2. The Act on the Agency, which states that conflict of interest represents a situation where a functioner has a private interest that affects, may influence or appear to affect the behaviour of officials in the performance of public functions. Please, we as lawyers and my esteemed and highly esteemed colleague Lubarda will surely agree with me, the formulation seems to affect and is insufficiently clear and over-expanded formulation. It leaves the possibility of over-explanatory interpretation, and thus, through too wide an interpretation, leaves the possibility and cause certain legal uncertainty, as different interpretations of those who apply this norm will appear through this norm, and so will the Anti-Corruption Agency. It seems to be like the behaviour of officials in the performance of their duties or responsibilities, and in no case can it be legally regulated, but must be precise, practically applicable, and hence when it is practically applicable, it is clear whether someone will be sanctioned or not, whether it will be covered by this norm or not. As for the other parts of the recommendation, I think we should think about whether literally all of the recommendations listed here should be systemic solutions at the same time, because it is said that according to official duty data can also be collected from banks. That's not controversial. It's something else. Whether the data available to banks also includes data that are the subject of trustee monitoring, so to protect personal data and whether these data are related to those so-called ‘entity data’. protected data that can in no way be the subject of exploitation in any kind of traffic, legal traffic, financial or other? So this recommendation is, to some extent, controversial, so I ask you to consider in this direction whether this recommendation should be maintained or eventually excluded from the Corps recommendations that should be as new system solutions. It also seems to me that we should consider, and that is certainly the view of the SPS parliamentary group that in the second part of the recommendations related to incompatibility of functions, there is one question that is a very sensitive field. Therefore, incompatibility of functions in any case represents a certain degree of risk, i.e. compatibility, and I will apologize because the function implies a certain degree of risk for corruption. The question is, is it always there and is it in all situations? Could the MP be a member of a body, because I didn't see that clearly defined enough here, which does not automatically sanction incompatibility functions? Could he be a member of the Educational Institution Council? My colleague, distinguished, Miljana Zindovic will say something more concrete about this later, but I have to look back now from a legal point of view, can something like that enjoy legal observation in terms of certain sanctioning? So, all these recommendations that you've made, to some extent they respect attention and deserve support, but I have to say again, not all of them, and that's why I'm in front of the SPS in a way that's kind of critical. I am pleased that the report lists certain practical examples of conflict of incompatibility functions, and I am glad that the practical examples of nepotism, as one of the characteristics of corrupt activity, are listed, because nepotism is one phenomenon that, as a cancer of metastasizing, becomes something that seriously endangers the foundations of institutions, the very state apparatus itself. Unfortunately, our institutions are still not immune enough and ready enough to go all the way against this phenomenon, such as nepotism. When we talk about what you predicted as "integrity plans", you set two goals in your report, and at the same time through those two goals and two mechanisms that achieve these goals. One is the kind of your so-called. consulting work, but secondly, supervisory work. Why am I saying this? There is no doubt that there is a need for units of local self-government and public enterprises and everyone else to make plans based on which to identify corruption cases in the best and most efficient way, to respond adequately and timelyly and to inform the Anti-Corruption Agency. However, the supervisory role in this regard comes only later. It is necessary to enable units of local self-government to enable their professional services, both human and technical training, in order to adapt to what is prescribed in your recommendations, assuming that they are an integral part of certain system solutions, i.e. norms in the future anti-corruption law. Only then is the supervisory role in which the Anti-Corruption Agency undoubtedly has an important role to play. Finally, when we talk about the Anti-Corruption Agency, I can't help but look at what it means to animate citizens to initiate procedures before the Anti-Corruption Agency, and in all cases where such events occur, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is one shortage, and I can say freely that it also burdens this Parliament, all of us MPs, and that is the fact that we still haven't passed a law on the protection of alarmers. This law is necessary, precisely in order to achieve this goal, because without that law you cannot expect in any case an adequate response of citizens in all situations, which is because of the fear of the consequences of reporting, which is because of the abuse that these applications will have another objective in relation to the objective that is achieved, and especially because a kind of system-based unregulated field, which must be fully regulated by the law on the protection of alarmers. As far as the DRI report is concerned, we're considering it. I have to point out one fact that is somehow not listed here and notoral or indisputable. For ten years, there will be a DRI. What the SPS parliamentary group can rightly point out is that from year to year the work of the DRI is on an increasing level of quality through the monitoring of public finances as a continuous process, through the monitoring of everything that involves the protection of budgetary means of stability of the budgetary system and what seems to me not to be indicated here, which is that there is a certain lack of understanding in the most important role of the DRI, which is to check the accuracy and truthfulness of the data made in certain reports, of course financial reports, especially the final account where the DRI has shown extremely good results, which also had the possibility that even the legal basis for what is meant under the budget of the Republic of Serbia as something that can be problematic, i.e. which causes certain reactions in accordance with the provisions of exactly legal solutions, and thus also the competence of the DRI where these types of problems are perceived. Of course we'll support this report. I wouldn't have owed it for the other data. They're perfectly clear. I don't like it when MPs convince or read your reports. It is far more important for you to hear certain constructive ideas. It is far more important for you to hear even well-intentioned criticisms based on which to improve the quality not only of your work but also of your system solutions. I am convinced that in this direction we will all contribute together to making future system solutions as high as possible. The SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the conclusions proposed by the resolution committees, and therefore support your reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2736	Thank you. The word now comes from Mrs Tatjana Babic, director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2737	Since a lot of questions have been raised, somehow not to lose it later in the debate. There's a lot of important questions. When it comes to the Financial Committee, I would like to welcome this idea, namely the announcement that a subcommittee will be formed that deals exclusively with the recommendations of independent bodies for amending and supplementing the law. That's very good. As for some of the potential problems that the MPs and the public in some way always indicate, this was the case on the Justice Committee, the possibility so-called. the leak of information and data available to the Agency, in particular, in the Anti-Corruption Agency, there is a clear data protection system. Secondly, the Anti-Corruption Agency is also required under the Agency's Act to protect personal data and to ensure the protection of personal data, in particular data on officials and related persons in a situation where no infringement of the law has yet been established. This is therefore personal data and other data protected under special law. However, when it comes to controlling the property of public officials and controlling the financing of political activities, that is what we discussed on the Justice Committee. So we simply have to decide first whether we want to control the property of the functionor or not. If this state thinks it controls the property of the functionor, then the Agency must have mechanisms to carry out that control. When it comes to banks, first of all, it is not true that there are no exceptions to the obligation to keep banking secrets. Even in the Bank Act itself, it is stated in one provision that the bank delivers the data at the request of regulatory bodies. Although the Agency is not a regulatory body, but the Agency is an independent and independent state body, this is the occasion I need to point out, and in that sense, that I am now undergoing a depression. So, the late Mrs. Verica Baraq was mentioned. She was president of the Anti-Corruption Council. So, the Council is the advisory body of the government. The agency is an independent state body that corresponds to the National Assembly for its work. It's just not the same as the Council. So we could, in a broader sense, interpret ourselves as a regulatory body. Some banks refused to provide us with data. We will, by amending the laws, which we will soon propose, ask that we too be included in those bodies that the banks are obliged to supply the data we need to control the property of the officials, by making it clear that the specific provisions will be a clear responsibility for the protection of these data and who may use those data, under which conditions and within what time limits, that practically that ban on the disclosure of these data to third parties is constantly taking place. It doesn't stop either after the employment relationship has stopped, or after the status of officials in the Agency has ceased. The exception, however, would have to be the state authorities - the competent prosecutors, the competent courts, the MUP, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Tax Administration, with which the Agency and the Agency would have the right to deliver data and without the consent of the officials to those bodies if we wanted to have effective and effective control of public officials' assets. As for the incompatibility of public functions, I would agree that the law is more than inaccurate and for this reason, we, in that initiative that we put forward in March last year, which has not been discussed, have proposed that the possibility of performing more public functions be abolished, based on the consent of the Agency. Therefore, the criteria on the basis of which the Agency gives its consent under the now applicable law are quite wide-ranging. Secondly, the law says that the Agency will not give consent if there is a conflict of interest or an impartial exercise of public office is threatened. First, there is no conflict of interest when two public functions are at stake because there is no private interest, but two publicities conflict. So that provision is completely inapplicable. Unbiased public functions cannot be proven if they are, for example, functions at different levels of government, etc., so that we are practically not able to reject the requirement to give consent in certain situations, so we come into an absurd situation that some officials perform several very responsible functions. It's about these incompatibility public functions. So it has to be clear by law what can be defined and what must not be done at the same time. As for expanding the circle of officials, it was MP Jovanovic who asked the question, I can agree and agree that legal definitions cannot be extended by views etc. However, this definition is not quite so clear to the end. So it could be interpreted that way, but what's problematic for us at the Agency when it comes to authentic interpretation is that the procedure for authentic interpretation is the same as the procedure for amending the law. Therefore, the National Assembly could assess the public interest and say – okay, they could not continuously extend the legal definition, but it should be covered by the legal definition. We're not going to interpret the law now so they don't apply, but we're simply going to change that provision of the law in the public interest. The National Assembly estimated that it was not in the public interest. We will insist that it enters and it will be in public debate. We'll see, they'll hear and spread the circle of actors. As for the conflict of interest provision when you say it looks like it's affecting, here's why it's important. So the official is in a conflict of interest that has a private interest that affects, it's clear, which can affect, but says which one looks like it affects. These are situations where you cannot prove that his interest has affected, but his personal interest creates public mistrust. Therefore, this provision should remain because it is important to restore citizens' trust in institutions. If citizens seem to have a role model in conflict of interest, and even if it is not in conflict of interest, it endangers citizens' confidence in institutions. It's according to the law now in force. It's subject to discussion. You mentioned an animation of citizens to initiate proceedings before the Agency and the Alert Officers' Protection Act. The agency conducted a campaign in the spring of last year, a national media campaign that had and produced excellent results. Right after that campaign, we did so with the support of the European delegation, and right after that campaign, there was an increase in the number of performances given to the Agency. For this reason, we have estimated that the Agency's visibility is indeed, that the increase in the number of performances is the result of the Agency's visibility. As far as the Emergency Protection Act is concerned, I think it's well known that the Agency itself has been known for more than a year, even at one of these coordination meetings we've had exactly the subject of alarm protection, constantly insisting on how necessary it is, because we know in practice, which we do with alarmers, how inadequate the legal framework is, how unprotected these people are from the system. The Agency, in accordance with its legal options, is now doing what can be done to help these people, but it is necessary to establish an adequate legal framework as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2738	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2739	I appeal to Article 27(2), given that there are no more authorised representatives, and I have five minutes left, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to spend my time...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2740	You're wrong, my colleague Jovanovic. A representative, MP Momo Colakovic, came forward for the word, so that when we've finished the debate on all the applicants, then you can have your three minutes. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2741	Dear Vice President, the presidency, Mr Sretenovic, and his associates, Mr Lubarda and Mrs Babic, with their associates, allow me to make a few remarks on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group regarding these two reports. Dear People's MPs, I believe the submission of regulatory reports is very important and important for this Assembly and for the entire political and state system of our country. In this regard, the achievement of the independence of the regulatory bodies set up and elected by this Assembly is the best dam for the Assembly to stand behind them and allow them to be in accordance with the law independent and responsible before the Assembly. It's the only dam that can ensure the smooth and legal work of regulatory bodies. Among other things, I can draw attention to the fact that yesterday we just had a situation that is not suitable for this House, when it comes to regulatory bodies and ambiguities and an inappropriate attitude towards the bodies that the Assembly is exclusively establishing and choosing. Therefore, the only relevant Assembly is to assess their work, to give specific suggestions and suggestions and to amend the laws regarding regulatory bodies in accordance with the initiatives they submit. That is why the PUPS parliamentary group will give full support, as the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency said yesterday. This means that we will accept both and support the report and in particular support the recommendations made in these reports. What is it that you can see from the report? I want to say that first of all, I will rely on the DRI report, with the support of the Anti-Corruption Agency, because I think it is very important that we say something more about how and how, since most of the cases in the DRI process apply to state authorities and institutions. I'm just going to remind you that it's 60 and some of the subjects and that there are only five found correctness. Secondly, it's an object, the numbers of 2,683 billion. You can imagine what it is, as our Lala would say, money, or what Mr. Canak would say – our money? It especially encourages public interest in this matter. I have to say, DRI did a huge job in 2013. It deserves special attention and special recognition. What is it that you notice? A review was carried out, as I pointed out, at 60 and some of the subjects. The largest number is state authorities and institutions. From what I said, five were positive. In others, from offenses to crimes, the congregation must not go beyond that. Now the question is asked – how and how can the Assembly and must insist on reaching the ultimate goal of these recommendations in the report, which are sanctions? They're not here. My colleagues have talked about it before, even when it comes to the congregation. Where's our responsibility for having a leak? There's no crime, and there's failure. Almost everyone broke the laws, broke regulations, and committed crimes. Also, it is the funds most of the budget, so the resources of the citizens and we as the Assembly must give the citizens an answer as to why this is tolerated and why the funds are being spent unintentionally and by law. It can be seen that as a congregation, we too are responsible for this condition. On the Finance Committee, we have found this, at various other meetings and meetings, and we do not have any initiative according to the executive and according to the legislative authority to change the situation, to move the procedures, to sanction mistakes, especially those of a more difficult nature. For these and other reasons, our PUPS parliamentary group will support all recommendations contained in the DRI report and insist that they be implemented directly and sanctioned. Whoever doesn't do it has to be responsible. We must also insist, someone here said, to the responsibilities of everyone, and we must say that he is back here in the assembly. If we are making laws for the DRI, if we are behind the DRI, they are finding weaknesses, failures and mistakes, then we must insist on the responsibilities of those who are also elected by the Assembly, whether it is the Government, whether it is ministers, some institutions, etc. He's going back to the assembly. We have to take that responsibility. For these reasons, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to conclude the following. First, that we will support the report and everything that stands in it and give full support to the DRI to continue the work. Secondly, we support the initiatives that have been given regarding changes in the law, and you saw five or six initiatives there. In this regard, I ask that between the DRI and the resolution board, the Assembly bodies find a solution to who will prepare it, who will achieve this initiative very quickly, and within which the government has identified as changes in the system of one, second or third. Third, we insist on the responsibility of the Assembly and the creation of conditions for the implementation of recommendations and attitudes in the competent authorities, above all with the investigating authorities and the judicial authorities. We have very little, as we heard from Mr. Sretenovic on the Committee, procedures launched without saying sanctioning certain failures. Personally, I think the Assembly has to stand behind it and call those who don't, whether it's intentional or accidental, or if it's the end of the procedure. Fourthly, we fully support the creation of conditions that the DRI has conditions for its work, above all, as indicated in the report, spatial, financial, and especially human resources. The DRI must raise its capacity to the extent that this law provides, to the extent that it is necessary for us, and it is very much needed. For these reasons, we will support the report and the measures proposed. I will use the rest of my time in the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2742	Mr. Jovanovic, let me give you a heads-up. You have the right to take advantage of your three minutes, but when the list of speakers is completed in order of the MPs, at the end of the debate. You can't right now. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2743	The Honorable Chairman, respected DRI gentlemen, of the Anti-Corruption Agency. It is our special honor today to discuss reports and suggestions of conclusions that this National Assembly in collaboration with independent bodies, which we call independent, should in the future, financially, in the state seducing a certain order, point to the problems we have in everyday life. It's on one side. On the other hand, to jointly try to exercise control over one political establishment, which citizens sometimes see completely separately, and sometimes see as part of Serbian citizens and in such a way as to essentially ensure transparency in the work of all state levels. So, also those related to the legislative body, such as the National Assembly, executives, the Government and that part of the transferred competences of public enterprises, which are obviously our cancer wounds and the biggest consumers of the budget. You need to put things on your feet and it's very difficult. I'm going to start with the DRI, and I've really read her report thoroughly. I was pleased to see that on the basis of the exact data you can see, and also in relation to the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, that political will and political awareness were still needed since 2012, because these are the only conditions that should be provided for you as independent authorities to do your job. If you look at the results of the 2012 work, your reports, and in 2013, you'll see that based on these figures, a growing number of recommendations, punishments begin, but that's not the case that we haven't done our job, as MPs, and you, as state independent authorities, have matured awareness that we can function in a smooth way. What does that mean? This means that the DRI should provide a professional report, i.e. an examination of all financial reports, on the basis of which it should give a certain expert opinion on the state's assets, what the property of public enterprises is, what these financial flows are, and whether we are in line with those directives, i.e. European directives on this European path as Serbia. I think that from 2012 to 2013, as you can see from the report, all state authorities are trying to fit into these European directives. There's a lot of disagreements, there's a lot of leftover unresolved problems in functioning. What you can notice is that your job is bigger and more extensive, because not only these measures of financial control of punishment, but part of learning, education of people who run these public enterprises, but also the accountants themselves, or financial rapporteurs, through financial reports, should adapt their level of knowledge to what we are prescribed, or to you to control. It's a very difficult job. It's not that simple. People's MPs come from different parts of Serbia, based on different basics and different types of work. They get different kinds of information from citizens, who may not have been educated on this area – what is a financial offense, what is corruption, and sometimes we replace many topics and put everything in one basket. This is corruption, there's been a financial offense here, and maybe that's not the case in reality. In most cases, the past has shown that there are problems that are always reflected in the budget, that we simply cannot, through the budget deficit, cover as Serbia and by 2012, we have had absurd situations, which is that the state itself, the government, the ministries and the Republic Parliament were unable to control the implementation of the budget. We had all over the place that incomes and expenditures weren't put in one place. Based on the report, even those related to a different type of guarantee, the loans Serbia was giving, were not registered in one place. This was unambiguously demonstrated by the 2010 and 2011 State Auditor's reports. It has also been shown that Serbia did not have a record of the number of public sector employees, i.e. how much this country spends. The SNS headed by Mr. Alexander Vukic since 2012, as the first Deputy Prime Minister, who was in charge of fighting corruption, faced a major problem, which is that there was no team in the MUP that could adequately prove corruption. The only document based on which he could prove there were certain financial offences is the DRI report. Somehow by his authority, after all, and by perseverance, he formed a team that counted large numbers, not only of police officers, but of the people of the area of law, but also of the areas of economy. They should have, with the help of the DRI to prove whether there really is a surplus in some part of the budget spending and, secondly, whether these persons were somehow called in to break the law. What I think is very good is that the report shows that the contribution to the correctness of the use of public finances, in this report by the State Auditor, concerns the budget, specifically to public enterprises, concerns the effects of the audit on the use of public funds. As far as the budget is concerned, I did little of the comparative analysis between 2012 and 2013, that certain recommendations also increased in percentage of the application of these recommendations themselves. So, in 2012, 53%, in 2013 were 64%, that some of the recommendations that were themselves during the execution process, say, recorded the decline, that, say, the people who, in the course of the financial activities themselves, were at 36%, and 47% showed that in 2012, but also one and another percentage shows, led to certain conclusions that, thanks to you and your reports, we had gained credibility, that simply and a foreign factor that shows that you were implementing certain European directives in the area of observing financial reports and harmonising state assets and what is called money flows, give the correct picture that foreign experts really show that we had become a country in which we should respect the reports presented. What has proved to be good is that this property record has become really complex, but it has indeed become credible in terms of seeing whether we are able to co-operate with international institutions. Secondly, whether foreign investors are really well informed about how many states they own, especially in relation to restructuring and bankruptcy companies. Why am I saying that? As chairman of the Committee on Economy, we will now have one set of laws to discuss economic reforms and to try the problem of these companies. We have committed ourselves to a declaration of co-operation with the EU that we will, in a legal sense, resolve this issue by the start of July, so I think your reports are very helpful in all of our efforts to see us and the EU in one serious way, to make sure that everything that we, as a state, prescribe and say that we stand behind it, that we simply do not lie to them. It was a principle somewhere until 2012, a high degree of mistrust. There's no more of that now. What is important is that the increased confidence in the budget that we bring here in the Serbian Parliament is increased, and even in some way it should be justified that there are more rebalancings in the course of one year, because this shows that we are setting ourselves limits, that is, the direction in which we will spend or realise financial resources. It is an important part of the truthfulness, objectivity and reliability, and what is important to say that if there is a certain discrepancies in business, as regards audits, by certain operators in relation to European directives, we must say that we may not at certain times be up to taking big steps and that is why the DRI should constantly carry out not only this monitoring and control but also education with which we would simply raise a certain level of business for our public enterprises. What is important is to say, and I will not be able to bypass, it is a major contribution in increasing the responsibility of both the National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance of the Public Debt and the Agency for Insurance and Export Financing, but it should be said that in certain parts, as regards your recommendations, or even the measures to which you have committed 166 violations, 17 criminal offences, 35 criminal acts, initiated processes against 200 responsible persons in 2013, shows that 1,081 recommendations are given at different levels, a significant leap compared to 2012 when there were 787 recommendations. But I don't want to talk only on a flat-rate basis today, but I would say that some of the violations have been raised against certain municipalities that are also here in our environment, such as Vračar, such as Smederjevska Palanka, such as Vršac, Prokuplje, Ćuprija, Skobanja, Medvedja, Lebane and Ćicovac, such as the Vojvodina Clinical Centre, such as the Agency for Medicinal Products, such as the designated Institute for Vrtivstvo i rata Novi Sad, such as Fruska Gora National Park. So, you should mention them publicly and what makes me think I need to move on to the subject of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Many times as MPs, we ask questions where we notice or even have certain evidence that there are certain crimes or errors in business, and it is related, for example, to fighting corruption and then we ask the question because it is our only mechanism of parliamentary issues and we send it to the competent ministries. We may be wrong in the part where we ask these questions because you may still be like two independent institutions, you and the addresses at which we should ask the question, because it is easier for you to look at all the organs involved in certain crimes, so give us an adequate answer. For this reason, I believe that this political support is necessary for you, but we also need your support that we may drive many things out to cleanliness, as an organ that performs, not only the adoption of legal solutions, but also someone who controls the work of other institutions. What is important to say, as regards the fight against corruption where the SNS in the last five years has really fully opened the topic in one way that it has approached to become a daily topic for all Serbian citizens, to open the story somewhere and become part of the daily life in which we want to reduce that degree of corruption, which has proved to be a state by 2012 in order to solve this problem in the last place. You will admit that indeed Mr. Alexander Vukic's contribution is to the position of the first vice president and whoever advocated this topic is indeed at the highest level and no political party can minimize it. What's important is that today you can't talk so freely about this subject in this way that there has been no dedicated work on this matter. It was very difficult to implement the issue of this topic when you had formal and informal power centers in which in every way they prevented the work of these two institutions, where you were in some way set up in a system where you didn't have mechanisms with which you could implement, and therefore I think that your work is just beginning to get some full capacity. What I wanted to note is that you have proposed that certain public hearings be dedicated to these topics, and I can tell you that today is a public hearing in the implementation of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment which deals with the methodology of the damage assessment, and you are very necessary in that part, not only in the work of that committee, but also in the Committee on Economics, the Committee on Health, Education, because you have stated that the degree of corruption in certain areas is very high. If you have come to this particular conclusion, you need to participate in a particular work, not to be a public hearing such as that name. in Montenegro, rather than having your participation on boards when ministers come to present certain reports and information about their work in the past three months, because then they are interesting topics when we are questioning them and when you should be present and make a full contribution on certain topics. What makes it really important for us to be together today on the same mission, but both today and tomorrow, and I think this report and the proposal for a conclusion will be fully supported by the SNS and we will declare ourselves positively in the Voting Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2744	We are moving in order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2745	Thank you very much. Since I only have five minutes, I'm going to look more or almost entirely at the DRI report, and my colleague is going to deal with the Agency. This is two days of truth for Serbia. Yesterday's reports of three regulation bodies dealing practically with human freedoms and rights, and today two regulatory bodies dealing with public finances and abuse of position, or corruption as one disease that has deeply occupied this society. Yesterday we had a symbolic conclusion of the debate, by representatives of those three bodies being expelled from parliament. So much for human rights and the right to information, the right to equality and to protect citizens. Today we have one lullaby here all day about a report that's ahead of us, which is dramatic, both reports. Both reports tell us that we live in a country that's in a state of corruption, in a country where the abuse of positions, where the abuse of public money happens every day, without some big reaction from those in charge, and that's not you. Your job is to point to that and make recommendations. I'm talking about some other organs. We have a DRI report, 56 subjects alone, probably from several thousand public entities in this country. Only one figure should cause panic in the country, which is that last year's final account shows no assets of 1684 billion dinars. I don't know if anyone would know how to write that number. To make it simpler, it's 14.5 billion euros. So in the final account, we have no idea where 14.5 billion euros are. That's terrible. We have reason to believe that these are illegal purchases. According to this report alone, 31 billion dinars and 300 million euros. It's practically the number of damages in the catastrophic floods we've had in the last few days. This must cause great attention to the Serbian public, and above all to the Serbian parliament, not to talk about it as some progress that especially happened after 2012 by hiring a first vice-president of the government. Nothing's changed. Even before 2012, it wasn't good, and it wasn't good today either. These are catastrophic and alarming results. We have 208 violations, 18 commercial crimes, 50,000 criminal charges on only 56 subjects. Does anyone here, does the Serbian public know about anyone who reported the auditor or the agency went to jail, or was convicted in such a way that the Serbian public would find out? No, this is where corruption practically became a constitutional category. It's day-to-day behavior. Corruption from trade to the Serbian presidency, where we have on the headlines clear evidence that the Privatisation Agency, the director, complains that a Serbian president's adviser is putting pressure on her about the privatisation he is personally interested in. It's a disaster in our society. In another newspaper, we hear the EPS is moving to Belville. Is there a public procurement procedure in place? Of course not. (President: MP, please stop quoting the front pages of the newspaper and return to the debate.) I have the right to quote the front pages. I'm talking about corruption, and here's the Anti-Corruption Agency. I'm also talking about public money, and here's the DRI. So, not to talk about the subject, but I'm probably the first one to talk about the subject today. It is a day-to-day reality and we must have our eyes wide open and therefore give greater support to institutions dealing with the discovery of this ugly reality of Serbian society and, in the shortest time, in a serious way, through the institutions of the judiciary, those who do so before the court are condemned, and that Serbia is starting to behave normally with its public means and that public officials have an obligation to stand as sacred to them, not as a possibility that there or here something is being sewn more or less. Serbia must be a normal state, and it will not be a normal state with this level of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2746	Thank you. The replica was reported by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: On what basis? ) As a representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2747	No, it's not a replica, don't say that. I have a business basis, and that is that I am the recommendor of the conclusion, the authorised representative of the proposing, or the Financial Committee. As an authorised consignor of the conclusion, I have the right to report to the Rules of Procedure at any time when it appears in the debate necessary. I would also like to thank my colleague Zivkovic for presenting this information, because it would seem very trendy if we were, but the subject of the 2013 audit was well covered by the audit of the executive authorities in 2012, 2011 etc. I wish we had such good reports in 2010, 2011, 2012, which was submitted by the auditor, but apparently our DRI didn't have the capacity to do such a thing. We aim at independent state authorities doing their job at full capacity. Is that credit to the first Deputy Prime Minister, if it's the merit of the National Assembly, believe me, at this point is the least important. What is most important is that the evil created by corruption is finally being eradicated in Serbia. It's not about names anymore, it's about how the state works, what our rule of law is and what our state bodies do. I don't mean independent, I mean those who are in the direct system of executives. Everything now done by the state auditor and the Anti-Corruption Agency should be directed in two directions. The first is that those responsible for the abuses be brought to justice. The second is that everyone realizes that whoever is in power cannot be protected by membership in a political party, by the public function he performs and that at that time he will be responsible for everything he has done and should not have been done, which was contrary to the law. Let me remind you, in 2012, a law was passed. We can argue about this law, whether it's good or bad, whether it could be better, I think there's always room for better, but for the first time in our legislation, the proposal for a law on public procurement introduced a qualification of a criminal act of abuse in public procurement proceedings. So far, the auditor could only write criminal charges, and the prosecutor had to make a bad public procurement to prove his imagination to prove abuse. With this institute, much has been solved and I am sorry, and it seems to me to have been some's intention in the past, that such an institute of crime should not be in our legislation. Well, it won't work! Those who have public funds, and the public funds are the funds of Serbian citizens, must act in harmony and keep them more and better than their own, which, unfortunately, has not been a practice so far. I think that through the improvement of the work of independent state authorities, greater independence, as well as the responsibility of prosecutors, we will achieve that goal and that the holders of judicial functions, also in accordance with the law, will process everyone responsible for this evil that has hit us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2748	Thank you. Mr. Zivkovic, you have no right to a replica. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from place: Right to replica, I was named by name and last name.]] In the presentation of the representative's conclusion, we didn't see that he mentioned you in some way to have the right to a replica. I give my word to MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2749	Thank you, Chairman. It seems to me that yesterday and today have marked the great pleasure of the MPs to discuss the reports, it seems to us, according to the assessment of our parliamentary group, the institutions that function best in our country, and precisely because they are largely independent of the overall inherited system. Last year when I was talking about the DRI report, I said it was about a report like it was written by our parliamentary group, and it's not an assessment that's only characteristic of this report or last year, but also of all the reports of state auditors, and there were several in this high house. When we passed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, we said wherever you look, in any institution, everything is rotten. There are tariffs everywhere, in medicine, in the judiciary, in the police, in the courts, in civil servants, etc., and on the spending of public funds, as it would say, people's couples, it's a political issue number one in all orderly countries, because the public should be most interested in how all citizens' money is spent. We here have two institutions in turn, two newborn institutions that do not yet have enough capacity to respond to all the tasks that are set before them. On the other hand, it is not only the task of the state auditor and the Anti-Corruption Agency to control the spending of public funds, or to deal with those who are called corruption, bribery, bribery, crime, irresponsible behaviour of public officials. It's the task of all state authorities in the field with these very important institutions. 3,500 thousand years before our era, an institution was established in Mesopotamia that today would look like a state auditor. Then, for ordinary shoplifting, salads or vegetables, she cut her hand, and for taking away the state money, she worked as a gallows. If there was a similar law in our society today, we can imagine what a real situation would be. Of the 11,000 possible privatisation entities, the state auditor carried out control in 66 and identified a very poor situation and we all agree on this. We can only imagine what the report would look like if it were the capacity to revise all privatisation entities. That's why what we said seven, eight years ago and with the beginning of the establishment of our political parties when we pointed to all the problems in our society, we said that Elliot Ness needed our days as a personification of the political leader. That's why we went on the SNS list because we saw in Mr. Alexander Vukic a desire for official state policy to be a fight against corruption and seduction of order and for the country inside to become European. But Elliot Ness can't do it alone either. It takes the fruit of all. Without police reform, in the prosecution, in the public administration, in public enterprises, there's nothing we can do seriously, and we'll welcome it with a similar report next year. It's a free grade that I publicly pronounce. That's why we need to do everything we haven't done so far. And yesterday, when the Citizens' Protector and Manchester spoke, they said that the biggest chaos in public enterprises, and we see, as far as spending public funds is concerned, that the state is still the worst employer and that the philosophy of living in a foreign account with state money, irresponsible availability, is still present and that seems to me to be the biggest problem of your institution's happiness. The audit of Serbia's 2012 final budget shows a very bad situation, then the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. You, state auditors, controlled 18 public enterprises, 24 local self-government units, and only one clinical center, and there's a similar situation everywhere. It's bad everywhere. You can see the weakness of internal controls, there's no internal audit. We've been pointing out and talking again, internal control on customs disaster, and external control is needed, and that change is needed. Wherever you look, you need serious surgery. As far as the Anti-Corruption Agency is concerned, of course we are someone who supported the establishment, operation and operation of the Anti-Corruption Agency. We fully understand that you have one law with which you have a problem in practice, because it is not what it should be in a way that takes a serious fight against corruption. We expect that changes and additions of the law will come soon. But what I want to tell you quite responsibly is that neither you, as a very important institution, are allowed to be outside the law nor outside the Constitution, and you have often done so. You've brought legal opinions that have completely changed the law. Let's say, this legal opinion where you say that the official is considered a person appointed to the authorities of the AP, local self-government units, public enterprises and bodies of another organisation which is also considered to be social enterprises that are not privatised. What are we supposed to do with the social enterprises that started, how was it, housing associations, fishermen, who didn't, citizens' associations? It has nothing to do with the state, not the local self-government units, not the province. Several times I have even publicly and privately pointed out this problem among other things, and therefore we have had for the first time in the last few years an authentic interpretation of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I know what the intention is, but I say, if the law is clear, then the law must be respected by you, must be respected by all citizens of Serbia, must be respected by MPs, prime minister, president of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2750	Thank you. Now, the word has a folk letter from Miljana Zindovic, and let the MP Aleksandar Jovicic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2751	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable State Auditor, director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to speak on this occasion about the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. We will all agree that the report on the work is indeed extensive and exhaustive and that not one credible and objective way shows all the activities that the Anti-Corruption Agency had in the previous year. The Agency has cited numerous examples, we have graphics and has indeed managed to paint its work for us, but what is evident from this report is that the Agency's work and the role of the Agency in the previous year has indeed been raised to a higher level, which is particularly witnessed by an increase in the number of cases in the work, then the deadlines of conduct and the decision of the Administrative Court by the decisions of the Agency. But what it is carrying out throughout this report is the need to change legal solutions that regulate the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I agree that changes are necessary because life is always faster than the law, and the task of the law is to follow life. I'd like to explain an institute under this law that I believe has to endure certain changes, and by changing it, the pressure of the matter on the Agency would be significantly reduced and her work would be facilitated. U2013. 374 requests were received for an opinion on the implementation of the Agency Act and other regulations governing conflict of interest and 489 requests for consent, which in the structure of the subjects observed according to the content makes up the largest number. The Institute of conflict of interest in the law is defined as a situation in which the official has a private interest that affects, can affect or appear to affect the behaviour of officials in the exercise of public office, i.e. official duties, in a way that threatens the public interest. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which is called a conflict of interest, established a principle ban on the performance of two or more public functions at the same time, without referring to the question of the existence of a private interest which affects, may affect or appear to affect the conduct of the public interest. I believe that this formulation should be better preciseed primarily because of previous experience in the application of the law, especially when two public functions are performed at the same time. The private interest is an integral and very important element of conflict of interest and its existence should be crucial in the norm of conflict of interest, and I mean its concrete development, concrete development of the concept of private interest, and especially its existence in the private interest, in the institute of conflict of two public interests. Therefore, there is no apriority to the existence of private interest in the simultaneous performance of two public functions, especially in cases where the MP performs a function, such as a member of the college council, or another public function, to which the Assembly or Government has appointed him. At the same time, performing more functions is not necessarily a prerequisite for corruption. In particular, given that legal solutions are such that they do not allow the accumulation of financial compensation for the performance of public functions, they do not allow an increase in material resources. I therefore believe that this legal concept of corruption is largely instigating doubts about the general corruption of all public officials, i.e. public officials, and that it contributes to the loss of trust in public officials and in the work of the institutions of the system of government. So we need a more precise definition of the institute of private interest. Another topic, which is extremely important and we mentioned it today and on which we should all work together is to ensure the independent and sovereign position of the Agency, which is largely dependent on the Agency's relationship with public officials. It is very important that the Agency perform the tasks entrusted to it by law in a way that ensures protection of the rights of the person, which are guaranteed by the Constitution and by law to every citizen. We are witnessing that often the content of criminal charges is being obtained by means of public information before the person they relate to is familiar with them and thus a public opinion is being formed about the public official who is most often and wrongly. In this way, it does not contribute to increasing confidence in institutions and public office holders, but, unfortunately, to one kind of discreditation, or to the Anathetisation of public officials, who do their job to the greatest extent responsibly, securely and in the best interests of citizens. The assumption of innocence is a fundamental postulate of determining the responsibilities of every man in a regulated system in the world, so we must not give legitimacy to any attempts to challenge it. I believe that it is necessary and necessary that the Agency protects the data on the person(s) to whom it has come into the legal procedure, and perhaps we should also discuss the establishment of the responsibility of the Agency, of another body, of the organisation, or of the persons in charge of the publication of the data in which they came under the law of the authorised authority. Presumption of public function should first of all be public interest in the best knowledge and skills. Errors as well as everyone are allowed to a certain extent by public officials, and I believe that this is a society to which we should strive and that the Agency's task is to spread awareness of such behaviour. What is important is that the public already recognises both the role and the importance of the Agency, especially in the field of fighting corruption, and that is why I advocate that we continue to strengthen the Agency in every way, as a professional and independent body. Finally, I would like to say that the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the report and the conclusions of the committee responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2752	Thank you. The People's Messenger Aleksandar Jovicic has the word, and let the MP Marko Atlagic be prepared. Here you go, Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2753	The Honorable Chairman, MPs, we heard a constructive debate, we heard reports from independent agencies and what is important, which is that we will all work to improve work and that we have a better coordination between all relevant factors in this area, to improve our system and to fight. I will strictly commit to the fight against corruption and crime, to combat the greatest monster in the last 20 years that has destroyed and disrupted our economy. Certainly, through this report, most of the time we could see the interpretation that a contribution was achieved in the fight against corruption. Now it can be looked at on this side or on the other side, but it is important to point out that we can always do better and more, and I hope that in the next period we will all fight together that our economy no longer has a noose around the neck called corruption, given that we are brought into such a situation that it is really hard to live and that the economy no longer has room for luxury called corruption. We need to look at the fact that by not accusing anyone in the last 15 or 20 years, perhaps more, we haven't had enough effective work to fight the same, I mean corruption and organised crime, that as a state we've very often engaged in incapacitated situations and that we didn't have the political will to finally deal with corruption and crime. The lack of political will, on the one hand, and when a man who couldn't do it and recognized it, even if there were any wishes, was the result that we had all these missed privatisations, that we had over 400,000 people without donkeys and ruined economy, completely destroyed in the last 15 years. The goal of this government is, as is the previous, the fight against corruption, and I hope that we will continue successfully to implement all those elements that we can, towards that goal. The beginning of the fight against corruption is certainly a new law on public procurement. You are aware of the way public procurement was conducted in our country, how state property was being robbed, how companies that were more expensive, unfavourable were going through tenders, money was being drawn, and under the bench, political ties pushed into the pockets of certain officials, and various parties. I am convinced that this law has prevented such a thing to a greater extent and that we have done what many did not or did not want to do in the past ten years and in front of that fact we cannot close our eyes, because I believe that at this moment Serbia has a savings of more than 500m euros only on the basis of that law which gave us the mechanism to go into battle with or against corruption. Also, investigations have been launched and now someone will say that they were like this and they were like this, but someone has gathered the courage to expose and the tycoon-political ties that have suffocating our economy daily, this tycoon influence from institutions and the tycoon pressure on a certain political establishment, so that we do not come into the situation to work on the difolt in the interest of those who are owners of large capital, but not of the honest ones, but of those who are called tycoons, who have earned money on the back of Serbia's citizens and on the back of all of us. It has finally started to deal with such ones, and we will see an epilogue in the coming period as regards the judicial rulings, "Agrobank", "Galenika", the detention of those who were in certain political parties, and even in those political parties from which I come, is an indication that Serbia no longer has time to lose, that Serbia no longer wants to look at someone through fingers and that no political book will save anyone who wrongs about the law or who drags their hand into the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What is important, we have heard reports here that are good, someone will agree, and someone will not, but let's see what the organisations outside our borders say, such as "Transparent International", which says Serbia has made progress in the fight against corruption. I'll just mention that in 2010, Serbia was 78 places, and in 2011, 86 places, 2012, 80 places, and in 2013, 72 places, which means that in two years, 14 places we've made progress, when we're talking about fighting corruption, we've improved our position, which is a fact that we need to take seriously that our country has finally gone into what others shouldn't have done two or two decades ago. If you ask me if that's enough, no, because we want to move forward, we want to fix our position even more, and we will succeed only all together and with you who are ahead of us, but also with the peoples and institutions of Serbia, with the overall factor in our country, we will succeed in fixing our position, because it is important because of investments, because of new generations, new young people who want to finally find a job in this country, to make such a climate to be an acceptable partner for everyone, and domestic, but also foreign investors. A National Anti-Corruption and Crime Strategy has also been adopted. Remember that many governments had failed to adopt it in two or three terms before that. The past government has done so and I think it is a step forward towards an even bigger, stronger and faster fight against corruption. I would just like to read the parts of the European Commission's report, see what the European Commission says when we talk about fighting corruption. We heard here certain representatives say that corruption is even bigger today, but they did not read the report carefully, where it is said to be for the period in 2012, but good. Here, we'll see what the European Commission says about 2009. "Corruption remains widespread in many areas and continues to be a serious problem. The most vulnerable sectors are public procurement, privatisation and other large budget expenditures." It's in 2009. In 2010, he says, "public procurement, privatisation procedures, public expenditure remains the biggest problem of our society." 2011 "The government has not yet completed the national anti-corruption strategy for the period 2012 to 2016. Corruption remains widespread in many areas, and remains a problem." Let's see the 2013 report from the European Commission, given that here are all parties who want Serbia closer to the EU and full membership. For 2013, the European Commission's report reads something different, and that's a fact. "The corruption investigation process has been raised to the highest level, especially in high-profile cases, resulting in particularly criminal charges. A large number of criminal charges have been launched and certain shifts are visible." What does that mean? If you ask if we have achieved the goal – no, we have not. The battle for our economy in terms of the release of this burden called corruption, organised crime will last for years, but it is important to reduce it in all possible ways to make it generally acceptable, such as in EU countries, where this level of corruption is on a much smaller scale than with us. That is why I expect a constructive dialogue of all of us in the next four years to fight together with these people to achieve this desired effect and to make our corruption as low as possible. What is important in the coming period is a set of those laws that we must adopt. When we talk about the alarm law, I think it's necessary to adopt it as soon as possible. I think we need to discuss the same thing here and see how we can propose some additions and changes, improve it if it's not ideal, and any law can change for the better. What's important at this point is that the regulation that covers this topic already exists, that the work version is drawn up and released in the public debate procedure, which means that one step may at this point seem small, but, unlike the previous time, and how large they are. We move on in this fight and together with you I hope that in the coming period we will adopt this law and move on more aggressively and even stronger into this fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2754	Thank you. The People's Messenger Marko Atlagic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Marijan Rističević be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2755	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, the respected representatives of two independent institutions, I thought I would give up the discussion because in the introduction of my colleague, Arsic really looked very well at both institutions' reports, and possibly on a proposal to change the law in terms of efficiency and improvement both in your institutions and in general. I'm glad to see you, Mr. Sretenovic, here's a year of eye-to-eye, Mrs. Babic. I'm the one who discussed it now. Maybe I wouldn't have called if some of the predecessors hadn't said nothing had moved since you were here. I'm a professor of university, and I don't talk in my head, so I'm still gonna back things up. When I say so, I must immediately say that we will support, as the SNS said, reports. You both made very thorough reports. This is what you do, in my opinion, very good and very good at your job, and I recommend to all of us, the MPs, that every one of you is not an annual report, but a report of those who are concerned, as the lawyers in medieval law say, means that they read and apply it well in practice, and then the needs of your institution will be less. Both the people and the citizens of Serbia will be better. I think we all agree in that context. When I say so, let me say immediately that we will give support to both the committee and its recommendations, and to you for amending the law in terms of efficiency and improvement of one institution and another. Someone said that nothing had been done on your proposal, or before that no one had responded. Mr. Sretenović, I am asking you correctly and I am looking into your eyes – is it true that, back in the year, when I submitted the 2012 report, I will quote myself, and you have noded that this is true, that it was written in the 2011 report that a minister in the former government paid a certain amount of money for making posters. I don't want to talk anymore. Just one poster of 25,000. This is in your report. That minister was in prison for investigation. So the procedure's in motion. It's not true that no one reacted to your report. The prosecutors reacted, and they should have reacted, and when we, the MPs, are concerned, because we cannot be protected by parliamentary immunity from corruption, regardless of whether we are MPs, officials and any political party that we belong to. Secondly, I also quoted your report from before, but I'm saying this for the sake of truth and justice. I also said that one former minister bought 2616 books from a publishing one house, owned by the very minister, and later the president of the assembly, and spent 1,171,000 illegally. That's what you said. The same minister on official travel, later and as president of the Assembly who sat here last year, and I told you this, and he listened, fortunately to our citizens, told him to get out of this house, on official travels illegally spent 13,000,000 dinars. I don't want to say what else it says. I mean, it's still moving. It's not true he's not moving. I'm not going to quote any further. I hope this one fits, as we'll all be answering if we do that kind of thing. There's something else I wanted to say. I think the reports are good, that you are institutions, as Mr Arsic said, of this Assembly and that we cannot be protected as MPs if we break the law. Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, I read here in a report on corruption in all actions. I agree that corruption has been destroying our society for 13 years. Why? Because for 13 years, we've destroyed the system's institutions. I think all Serbian citizens, all the experts who are looking at this right now, agree that it is very difficult to establish those institutions that you represent here in this Assembly. It's very hard, but it's going. Citizens stand behind you, gentlemen, and behind us in this assembly. After destroying our society, after destroying our country, since corruption and crime have run the country, it will no longer be. I see some smiling. They'd better listen to this. It won't be that. Imagine how corrupt the state authorities were when they wanted the Prime Minister to corrupt. I see some are smiling. They think it's funny. He who follows it for years in science is not funny to him, nor does he who lives righteously, to him is not funny, but the citizens live uprightly. They're not corrupt, gentlemen. State institutions are corrupt, public enterprises and politicians, professors, doctors in public enterprises are corrupt. Is that true or not? Now that there is a fight against crime and corruption, and when people say it is behind it, it gives full support to all those who want to contribute both positions and opposition and state bodies. Gentlemen, I'm calling for all of us to give our support together, but not to hide behind political parties or any parliamentary mandates or I don't know what. With this we really give full support to the government of Serbia, the president of the state, to you gentlemen, I look you in the eye, and to all the state authorities to clean ourselves up and save the country. Those who criticized yesterday, not to say political opponents, but non-insects, as a man of science, have destroyed our past, our present, destroyed our children's future. If only a year had stayed in power, they would have destroyed our roots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2756	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I am grateful to both the State Auditor and the Anti-Corruption Agency on the correct report, not to be attacking independent authorities and independent regulatory bodies, I attack the report. I think these reports are correct. I especially want to thank the DRI and ask them, as far as I know, none of them are members of the SNS. I want to thank you for not being a member of the SNS, although in public those who have suffered a DRI review accuse them of that membership. I want to thank them because last year I requested an audit of the Inji municipality and public enterprises. I want to thank them, although I suspected that this revision would be fair, I publicly admit it, it turned out that my doubts were unwarranted, that the DRI did it correctly and in a certain way my doubts were confirmed in the 150-page finding. With that in mind, I want to thank them for divulging my hunches and doubting that it would not be done correctly, but the party that wasn't satisfied with this report said that the auditors were members of the SNS and hence I publicly asked if it was true. As far as I know, nothing has been changed in their institution. I respect their independence, and I would like them to be independent, as they are from both current and former authorities. As far as I could see yesterday, unlike these independent bodies, some independent regulatory bodies, as they call themselves, are really not independent. There is no one among today's independent bodies who was the minister of the Serbian government, no one who was vice president of the assembly. We didn't have that case yesterday. We have independent regulatory bodies, where whoever represented them was also vice president of the Assembly on behalf of a party, was a high-ranking official in that party. I am glad that there is no such among you today. If a party proposes to me to be a minister and vice president of the Assembly, it will not occur to me to be at the Anti-Corruption Agency, as there are no such ministers among you, nor will I be a state auditor, as there are no former ministers among you. Yesterday we had no luck, and when I asked for and got a report of a budget inspection, who found abuses in independent regulatory bodies, as they call themselves, then I was accused here of being rudely insulting the trustee and I don't know who else because I read that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2758	Mr. Risticevic, please return to today's debate. We're done talking about yesterday's debate. I'd like to ask you to talk about today's agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2759	This report was drawn up by independent authorities. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Unlike yesterday, we were lucky today that's not the case. That's what I'm talking about. If that bothers you, you have the right to warn me, but I will continue to say that these independent bodies are significant, given the degree of corruption that is ruling in Serbia. They're connected to each other, even though it doesn't look like it at first sight. The state auditor should establish appropriate violations, and usually those infringers in the offence use public functions and public services to use it as a temporary haven, from where they start to chase at blue envelopes and various other benefits, realizing that it is an opportunity for them to quickly fill their pockets. Greece's tragedy rests on bribery, and Serbia's tragedy of bribery and corruption. It is therefore important that the Anti-Corruption Agency monitors public officials, and I think it should also monitor public officials, to determine where budgets are spent on the one hand, and on the other hand to try to determine which government officials, officials and officials are using their public office for private purposes and to question their private tax, which some call bribes. So, when a state official or an official asks for something he was paid out of a state register for, he actually beats additional taxes and thus not only embarrasses the state, but also destroys Serbia's economy in a certain way. Serbia is known for its myth and corruption, as the Greek tragedy is known for its bribery. I want both of them to do their job, like they've done before. I am grateful to the DRI for the correct report, even though I doubted last year that it would not be done. Here, I'm willing to admit that this job has been done, in my opinion, in a very correct way and I want them to do it in the future. As far as the Anti-Corruption Agency is concerned, the only thing I ask is that for us farmers, and there are two of us, have understanding, because it's especially complicated for me to draw up a report, because we have farmers with property and savings crafts and resources to work with. I had to report all my tractors, a combination, even though I didn't have any means of transport, but because it's subject to registration, I had to enter it into the report, no matter how many trailers and machines I have, and that's not my property. It's a means of working for me. By this we are different from others who have apartments and cars and when they report it, it is not complicated for them. It's complicated for us. For us, land is not some property, but it is in a certain way a means of working, and we have problems in particular, let's say, catastro. When we buy some land, then it happens to have loads. Then you should report that property, even though it is not properly seduced in the catastro. As far as saving goes, she's not saving us. Now after this flood that hit some of them, and it hit me, that savings will melt. Next year, we're going to have to change that in the financial report, since we're using that savings to get a repromary, it's growing at one point, when we sell agricultural products, but even when we invest in a new set, it falls. So, in a certain way, we have to report these funds as farmers, and on the other hand, they're just crafts, such as tractors and trailers for labor. So, since it's particularly complicated for me to report it, then we have to report the corresponding obligations, or the debts that arise, especially when we're being cheated on by agricultural products, because today they can buy them, and they don't have to pay them, or they don't buy them anymore, but they take them over, and the villagers don't sell them anymore, but they hand them over. The ransomer can pay, but he doesn't have to, and then there are certain debts. We have to report those debts. I hope my other colleague from Vracar understands, even though he is not present here, my pledge to find some kind of relief for the future for the two of us when we report the property. You're tied to each other. I want you to cooperate, and on the DRI issue, I haven't read the report very carefully. I would like, in particular, to include the Trustee of Equality, those independent regulatory bodies that were visiting here yesterday, given that we received considerable knowledge from the budget inspection report that some of the budget funds were very roughly misused there, that they were used under the Public Procurement Act. I'd like to have special attention, if that's the DRI license capacity, turn to it. On behalf of the farmer, the two of us, thank you for your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2760	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2761	Mr. Chairman, the honourable representatives of independent control institutions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's agenda contains two extremely important reports. These are the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2013 and the report on the work of the DRI. I would like to thank the representatives of independent control institutions for their comprehensive work report for 2013. I would like to point out the importance of the Serbian Parliament adopting these reports, and in my presentation I will rely and call on the report on the work of the DRI, which was submitted by the DRI, and especially by the Local Government Budget Review Sector, but I will also refer to the 2012 Report on the revision of the financial reports of the final account and the regularity of the business of Vračar City Municipality. With that in mind, I have some newspaper articles in front of me. I'd only single out a few. It is a copy of the RTS of 17 January this year entitled DRI filed 35 criminal charges, as well as a copy of the 18.1.2014 "Pres on Line" that the DRI filed charges against 200 responsible persons. As there is growing public awareness of the results of the work of the state and state authorities, the issue of the active and efficient public sector is becoming increasingly relevant. In order to meet these needs, timely and reliable information is needed on the results of the work of state bodies, organisations, institutions, local self-government, public enterprises and many others. Therefore, it is good that we have a DRI that, as an independent and audit control body, is concerned that state revenues are distributed in an appropriate legal manner. Due to this, the DRI itself contributes to reducing corruption, raising anti-corruption culture, both in the public sector and in society. Corruption, you'll admit, a disease that, no matter how hard we try, is difficult to cure. Although we know that there is a legal framework for the comprehensive application of control mechanisms in the public finance system, by adopting the DRI Act during 2005, it is clear that the DRI must strengthen in a significant and essential sense and that we will be the ones who will give full support to the work of the DRI, both in strengthening and in achieving its mission, i.e. Its draft strategic plan, because it is the only way this institution can perform certain audits, and I would particularly refer to the Local Government Budget Review Sector. That's why I'm going to talk about the community I live in. It's the Vashhar municipality. I'll remind the citizens that it's according to Article 7. Budgetary system law, as well as Article 31. The statutes of Vračar municipality, president of the municipality responsible for the implementation of the budget. According to Article 37. The Statute of the Municipality of Vračar, the head of the municipal administration, shall be responsible for the application of the regulations and other acts adopted by the municipalities, the president and the municipal council. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that after meeting the citizens of Vrachar that the president of the municipality has abused his position, and we can see it in Mr. Sretenovic's report, to ensure that the money of the citizens of Vrachar is wasted without purpose. It will be difficult to get that trust back, especially when during the process, the investigation determines the reasons for such behaviour. I don't want to be incorrect, so let me say it's for the purpose of obtaining illegal property benefit. We will wait for the end of the procedure, but this does not mean that no questions should be opened and that citizens should not be informed that in the 21st century, in the central city municipality of the Serbian capital, there are no and no internal acts governing the way, conditions, procedures, criteria for spending public funds relating to the use of official vehicles, the use of representation funds, distribution of financial assistance, etc. Which is why the DRI itself asked these questions in its report to the Vračar municipality. I repeat these questions. How is it possible that Vračar municipality management did not adopt a risk management strategy? How is it possible that as founder of Vračar municipalities, she did not oversee the legality of the work of an institution whose founder was? I repeat, Božidar Adjija, the National University of Bozidar Adjija, is a recreational educational centre called Vrakar, where huge and serious violations have been identified, i.e. irregularities identified by the DRI. What's the reason for that? Is it because the same party was in power at the city and municipal level, or is it perhaps a material benefit for the party or individual or perhaps both? For this reason, did the Agency for the Budgetary Inspection of the City of Belgrade in 2012 not control the application of the law in the area of financial and material business and dedicated and legal use of funds in the township of Vracar, as well as the Office for the Internal Audit of the City Administration of Belgrade, which also failed to carry out its tasks in the City Municipality of Vracar during 2012? Is that why there is no net purchase of non-financial assets, so data on planned additional income, refund, other income, income, etc? They are shown in a descriptive, inaccurate manner, not according to the economic classification, which can also be found in the 2012 report on the revision of the financial statements of the final budget account and the regularity of the business of Vračar City Municipality. How is it possible that the public company has reduced the leases based on the participation of the tenant in programmes, projects and activities carried out by Vračar City Municipality that all funds from the lease of business space will be paid directly at the expense of its own incomes of the Vračar Centre for Physical Culture rather than at the expense of public revenues? Who allowed, authorized or gave freedom to a public enterprise to act as an independent entrepreneur? In which country in the world is there the provision of services from one institution, and the collection is done by another institution that does not participate in these services at all? I guess they figured it'd be easier to spend money without the local parliament's control. How is it possible that the Public Business "Vračar Business Area" has taken over its obligation and made payments for the purchase of services for the representation of private lawyers, although a public defender has been appointed for these jobs? What else does a public defender do? Now look at this insolence on page eight, item 5 of the report, where it is said that "Vračar business space" paid the cost of accommodation and nutrition for members of the Management Board at Mitrovica resort in Tari, where a meeting of the Management Board was held. That's what your report says, as an irregularity you found during the audit. How is it possible, on behalf of the salary, additions, compensation and social contributions, to the employer's burden for the selected, appointed and appointed persons, to be exceeded coefficients, i.e. incorrectly increased by a stimulating factor? How much haughtiness is clear and visible tells us that the department and deputy commissioners of the department are incorrectly identified coefficients, because they are treated as being placed instead of assigned persons, which is another proof of how similar employees in the Vračar municipality are shot. During 2012, 10 people were admitted into a working relationship, which we can see very clearly from this report, for a certain time without the previous agreement of the city of Belgrade. Then, it was spent on the arrangement of façades, private facilities, special studies, supervision, the construction of private green areas, courtyards, roofs, elevators, fuel, as if from Nis they were coming to work, a representative of the president, members of the council, NGOs, without a public competition, without a contract, then paying the Hotel "Park" for the accommodation and feeding services of natural persons. This says it all. See page 11 of point 17), this is very important: “The Vračar City Municipality’s management in business books did not even record 332 flats of 14.350 square meters worth 1.574.792.00 dinars, in business books it did not record 31 garages of 1,389 meters, in business books it did not record 28 kiosks whose estimated value is 4.381.00 dinar. ” The municipality concluded a contract with a marketing firm, and I would not advertise it at this time, at the height of five million dinars for services under the contract of advertising and animation of citizens in certain municipal projects. At a time of general lack, at a time of financial crisis with inconceivable consequences, Vrakar Municipality, headed by the president, is experiencing its American dream. So that I don't get to the bottom of the list, to be correct, for the sake of time, according to my other colleagues, I'm going to subdue at the end, because of the citizens of Vracar, and to present what non-domestic business looks like, the non-domestic behaviour of the Vracar municipality administration, where the electorate body was, to the most extent, up to two years ago, gathered around the DS. Fortunately, that's the past, and it'll never happen again. It is clear that the obligation of all of us must be the public stamping of every functionor who makes damage, whatever the party was from, which is why it is very important to give full support to the DRI and help in all possible ways to get this powerlessness in the way once and for all. This is also a very good reason why this report should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2762	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, and let the MP Vladimir Djukanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2763	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Zoran Zivkovic announced on behalf of the New Party MPs here today our position on the report DRI, and in five minutes, as far as I have, I will announce our position on the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2013. I think it's enough to read what are the powers of the Anti-Corruption Agency to conclude that it's a weak institution in the beginning. Here, and this report says, on page 9, these powers are summed up and mentioned five things: the achievement of public interest and the suppression of corruption, with the duties to follow, support for citizens in the detection of corruption by individuals or groups, independent of their status, etc., then education of representatives of the public sector and other target groups, the provision of mechanisms to establish and improve the integrity in the institutional and regulatory framework, and ultimately, the presentation of the Agency's work in public and international co-operation and the duties arising therefrom. If we're looking at the Agency's work based on the jurisdiction it has, then my feeling and the position that the Agency has been placed from the very beginning on jurisdiction as a weak institution. If it is set up as a weak institution, it is my opinion that it is very important to strengthen this institution, to do something about the Agency's jurisdiction, so that it is a strong institution in our country. And instead of strengthening this independent state body, the Agency is falling further in this report in 2013. I will refer to one paragraph of the Agency's report on the work under the subheading "Procedures before the Administrative Court against decisions of the Agency's Board". That passage reads like this, and I'm just using it to illustrate that otherwise a weak institution is being further weakened and I don't think that's right. He says: “In one case, in the course of proceedings before the Administrative Court, against the decision of the committee refuting the appeal of the officials, the committee annulled its solution, followed the appeal of the officials, and annulled the first-degree solution. “ And all of this, given that on 16 December 2013, the National Assembly adopted an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 2 of the indent 2) of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, under which persons were elected, appointed or appointed to the bodies of companies whose founder is not a public undertaking falling under the term of the official, laid down by the provision of Article 2 of the 2nd indent 2) of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Therefore, in its report on page 30, it seems to me that the Agency is otherwise experiencing additional degradation, an additional reduction of jurisdiction. And then I wonder – what does it say about the institutional fight against corruption in our country? I think that's a very important question for this debate. Look, this is not only based on my feeling, but based on what the people who wrote this report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency that the fight against corruption today in Serbia is institutionally unconfirmed. I believe and would agree with the assessments we have heard here today that there is an express fight against corruption if we had the conditions in which we live that we are certain that this struggle is institutionally sound. The Agency's case tells us that's not the case. There must be a number of citizens who, then, are not surprised that, for example, when the President of the Republic announced and publicly said that he had received an "Audi" gift from his son, there is no one competent to ask the question – how, to check it out. In this case, the Anti-Corruption Agency did not. My judgment is that the Anti-Corruption Agency should have a public reputation as one factor in the fight against corruption. So weak, with such weak competencies, the Agency instead of doing its job, it constantly struggles to build its reputation, and cannot build it with such competencies. That is why I believe that this report should also be read in this way and the New Party MPs here will propose measures to suggest to other MPs that the Agency become a strong institutional fighter against corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2764	Time. Thank you. The word has as the last registered speaker MP, Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2765	Thank you, Your Honor. I must admit that I am not someone who is always kindly looking at all these reports, nor do I agree that now because someone has declared himself an independent body, although you are just, distinguished gentlemen, state bodies, and not any independent bodies, and I don't know why someone is baptizing you like that, but just because someone has given you that you are independent bodies, I don't see that now we all have to look kindly at you and that no one can ever tell you anything and that you resent your work. I have a lot of grudges about all these reports we've had. I didn't mean to talk yesterday when there were other reports, because I had something to say on the board, when he was the Guardian of Citizens, but here, because in the SNS itself, there's a pretty big democracy in that matter, a man can be freely defined. I will not vote for Sasa Jankovic, or his report, and I will not vote for Mrs Petrusic's report as an MP. These other reports are really good, with Mr. Sabic and Mr. Sretenovic having to say that they are really very, very good reports. I'm going to really support them, because they've set up a series of examples, they haven't written a political pamphlet, they've really caught up with certain examples, they've shown us what's wrong, and they've shown us what to change. As far as the Anti-Corruption Agency's report is concerned, the report itself is quite correct, but some of the recommendations that have been made here, they really still need to be discussed, and I am expressing a large reserve according to these recommendations. Because that's what you're looking for, and it's pretty hairy with both the Constitution and the law, and the question is whether something like that can be allowed at all, and then when I listen to the debate here, so it says -- the Agency has little jurisdiction, I apologize, but that Agency law has written some previous furniture, no one from the current government has written, so if you have really so little jurisdiction as someone here says, simply because it belongs now to opposition MPs, let them complain about the furniture running it in these elections and who wrote the Anti-Corruption Law. Mr. Strentenovic, what you have stated, and I really repeat, a very good report, is something that is creepy, something that is terrible, which shows how well this country is in some previous period of economic, economic, whatever you want, buried literally. You've shown this, these are terrible numbers, to only 56 objects where you could perform an audit. I understand, you don't have enough capacity as a State Auditing Institution, and I understand why you can't handle it anymore, but what you've listed only for those 56 objects that you've simply looked at and established their business, so we'd really be one very, very rich state if it hadn't been for this kind of money being poured out of all of our public companies who know what accounts. I just need to mention some of the things you've brought up about public procurement. Otherwise, for those of you who don't know, when you write this report, you write for a report about what you did in 2013, but you audit the business of what was in 2012, so we're actually looking at it now, and this is an essential report for what happened in 2012. Public procurement, especially these, otherwise, I could see to it that the company where I am president of the Assembly, these public procurements are without publication of a public call. It was such an abuse, and that's how they set up jobs for different friends, different friends, not to say, of course, to close friends, etc., that it was actually used to pump money out of the company and go to someone's private account. I'm glad you showed up here right through these public procurements, and it's good that it's quite a change in the new Public Procurement Act and it's much more rigorous control, we'll see the results of that law very soon, but already someone is saying that some savings are about 100m euros in that segment, and I think there'll be even more. It's a good thing you showed this, and I, of course, invite the entire public to read this report and understand why our country came to this stage where it came from today. Also, I'd like you to tell us, since you've cited amazing examples here, how have the loans been granted during that period? Then here, for example, you listed a siave of approved loans without adequate instruments to secure the return of loans. It was then that these were loans that were contrary to the Decisions on short-term lending conditions and interest rates. I'd like you to maybe tell us who these privileged people are or those privileged companies that could have gotten something like that? You know, if I came to the bank now, or any of us here, and I asked for a loan like that, and if I didn't have any security funds, they'd kick me out of the bank, as well as any MP here. Here we have indeed had an incredible situation, a concrete example of Agrobanke is the best, but also "Vojvodine Development Banks", where you could do well. You say, "Good afternoon, I'm the one and he's the one who sent me, this is my ID card, you see how beautiful I am, give me ten million euros. They draw out the sack and say, "Here you go, take it away, and there's no security." That's how the money spills out of the banks. I'd like you to tell us who are these people who could have gotten loans in such a way and received funds and thus literally robbed the state? Also, you listed here – we did not make sure that most of the audited entities had internal control systems in place in such a way as to provide business in accordance with regulations, internal acts, contracts, etc. How far is this a framework enterprise or any other state institution where you found it? I'd like, of course, for the public to be familiar with that. By the way, I'm a major opponent of the law that says that every company is obliged to hire an auditory house somewhere, of course, next to an internal audit of what it has. Why? Because I think there are huge abuses here, especially in these private audit houses that are essentially doing nothing. Because if we're talking about reviewing, then it's easy to do an audit of whether you've written something nice or not, but it's a completely pointless audit. It was necessary to do, of course, a complete audit of the business, and it is not for private auditors not to work, but rather for them to set up jobs literally for them to get a great deal of support. So, let's say, someone who's been privileged gets one 10 companies, 15 companies, doesn't matter, they're supposed to be doing some kind of audit, they're recording whether you've written something nice or not, and now it's like an alleged audit. The company fulfilled the legal obligation, and basically that auditor who was hired didn't do anything, that could have been you and me from the chair about to do it, and he got, of course, big funds. I'd also like to think about changing the law itself. If a private auditor has to be hired, it is known what is meant by the audit. What he's doing, he could have done any accountant, not someone who's an auditor. So I'd like you to tell us about how many such entities have failed to meet what they were obliged to meet. Of course, these balance sheets and these numbers to read, that's something you might say in the final word. The numbers are terrible. I repeat, this is only on 56 objects. Let people think again about how many things you haven't looked at. From what I understand, it's about 140m euros embezzled, or what's already been done. I'm only interested, because it says here that you filed 50 and some criminal charges, what's going on with these criminal charges, and is someone being prosecuted, or is the process being conducted, and how much has the prosecution taken into consideration? As far as the Anti-Corruption Agency's report is concerned, I say, a correct report, but with some recommendations I simply cannot agree with. I wish there was some debate about it, not just looking for something out of pure peace, and now we have to support it as we should – yes, you will certainly get it. I'm saying, you're in control too, and control is exactly this Assembly, because you're reporting to us. When you ask to extend the obligation to report property and income to all blood relatives of public officials in the right line, I understand that you want to have as much control as possible, but that's just a little bit of an entanglement in certain basic human rights, for example, my child or my father, it doesn't matter. Why would they if they weren't at all interested in politics, public life, which would report property and everyone has that kind of insight? I don't think it's really right to ask, but there's still talk about everything. It says – to authorise the Agency to direct and unlimited access to the records and documentation of state authorities and organisations. I can agree with the fact that you're asking to get additional information from banks, from companies, but what does it mean by state organisations? Well, there are some data that are, of course, classified data. There is a law that defines how they are used. The state organization is also a security-intelligence agency, so it would be very difficult for you to ask BIA for all such information, and it's not right, you'll agree. So, you should talk about it too, not just like this, like a big wish. It says – from the list of authorised proposings for the members of the Agency's committee to abandon the President of the Republic and Government, you state in an explanation – in order to reduce the risk of the influence of the Executive Authority and political parties, and as a new proposal to provide for the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for Public Information. I may be able to agree with you in some way, but who guarantees you the independence of the Commissioners of public importance, who guarantees you any independence and the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures? This is where apriorius is otherwise seen if someone in a party is a member, he's immediately someone who's marked and he's not doing his job well. I'm sorry, it doesn't have to mean that if someone isn't a member of some political party, he's completely independent. Well, you have someone's opinion. I think it's time to change that term here when you say "independence." I guess the point is to say that whoever is professionally doing his job, and not – I am independent because I am not a member of a political party or I am not a member of a political organisation. Then let's not let anyone be a party member, we'll all be out of parties and then we'll all be independent, which is completely pointless. After all, Mr. Sabic himself was a member of the political party, so now I'm curious about which moment he became independent and went to this function where he is now and you are now asking that he, as such, delegates people to the Agency itself? I think it's a bit of a sensitive subject and, of course, there's a lot more to talk about. You ask, you say this - to authorise the agency to act on anonymous premises indicating corrupt actions. I don't mind, but it has to be defined. How? So what do you do if you get an anonymous statement? I apologize, do you then move to work as police, or as you do, what are your specific demands on this matter? In the end, I cannot agree with the thesis – to prescribe political entities to ban the practice of humanitarian and similar activities. Why? Why would a political party or anyone not be able to deal with humanitarian or other similar activities? I think it's even socially responsible. So you can talk about everything. I'll support the report, but I leave a lot of recommendations alone, leaving a lot of reservations about them, and I'm not someone who's criticizing it right now, but I'd like to have a more significant debate, a team before you're a very important state body, you're needed in this fight against corruption. I am pleased that, in the end, the whole world has recognised our fight against corruption in terms of giving very positive assessments and for the very strategy that has been made, but of course for certain concrete activities that we see happening every day. I believe that in some future period in the very conversation of our highest legislative body, which is the Serbian Parliament and you will find the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2766	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. The word is by the magistrate of Aleksandra Jerkov, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2767	Thank you, Madam President. Dear guests, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, Madam President was not in the O.R., so I would say at the beginning of my presentation that I think he should have responded at the beginning of the presentation of the previous speaker, who claimed that independent institutions whose reports, along with the conclusions of the committees, we are considering these days, declared ourselves independent and that it is not about any independent state institutions, but only because someone has declared themselves independent and should treat them as well. Article 138. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which specifically speaks of the Citizens' Protector, whom Mr Djukanovic called so-called. An independent state institution, likely looking up to its party's president, says the Citizen's Protector is an independent state body still cites his responsibilities. I think there was room for a reaction, but I'm going to go back to my presentation, because that discussion actually shows what we had to see yesterday at the end of the session and we've been able to see for two years, which is exactly the attitude towards independent institutions. When it comes to reports that we're considering the same as yesterday...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2768	Please return to the reports. Don't make it look like you're replicating the previous speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2769	Yesterday I was also authorized for the 1st item of the agenda of this session. The pay phone that spoke after me dedicated seven and a half minutes of her 20-minute exposure exclusively to sex with what I said. I believe the same rules apply to everything... (President: I would like to ask you now to return to the topic. Here I go, if the biggest problem is what I'm saying. Simply, I think the attitude towards independent state bodies is the subject of today's work. No MP has the right to call the people we're discussing here today. I'm convinced it's a subject, and colleagues can call and say if they don't think it is. Just like yesterday, I believe that this is an extremely important topic of an independent state institution and bodies and regulatory bodies are something that was created as a fluid of Serbia's democratisation, the control of the government is something on which both the rule of law and the rule of law and democracy and, in fact, the measure of independence of these institutions, the measure of our listening to those recommendations that they give us is the measure of Serbia's democracy. I also worked very closely with Mr. Sretenović in the previous meeting through the Finance Committee and he knows how much trouble we had at first with the perception of DRI itself, when there was indeed a number of people who had experienced this institution as some kind of witch hunt and expected him to be some kind of Elliot Ness who would now be dealing with all the corruption in our country. I think a lot of time and a lot of energy has been spent to put that institution in the way the law provides. There are a few things left to be done that are also very important. At the beginning of his report, he himself found that one of the basic domains of his work was just co-operation with the National Assembly. A large part of the report is dedicated to that too. The committee in charge is a place where, I believe, he has always found speakers for all those topics and in the MPs of the DS certainly wants to have support for those laws that he mentions as an initiative to change them, but certainly when it comes to being translated into proposals, MPs will be at their disposal. One of the things I think I need to talk about when it comes to DRI's work, I think it's something, the same thing that all my colleagues are going to agree on. Since our DRI was established quite by reputation of the Slovenian model. There we had the opportunity to hear and to have the committee responsible, which is not called the Finance Committee there, they have the Assembly Committee, which is in charge of controlling the spending of public funds, have the possibility to recommend, suggest or say to the DRI which are institutions, which all of these local self-governments and businesses should be subject to review. If there is a possibility that we can reach such an agreement in the Assembly, I think it would be useful to strengthen Parliament's position as well as to improve some of our mutual co-operation. Likewise, when it comes to amending the laws recommended by the Anti-Corruption Agency in its report, first and foremost, the adoption of even the new Anti-Corruption Agency Act, DS MPs stand open to such co-operation. It is important to strengthen such institutions. The stronger institutions, the weaker individuals are able to pressure them, to fail them, and to break the positions and influence of those institutions. What I would like to talk about when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency, I also think there is almost no parliamentary group in which there was no similar problem. It has been very often happening, and you have cited media cooperation as one of your detours. Very often, MPs from the media learned that some actions were being conducted against them. Very often, the Anti-Corruption Agency comes up with things that are not known to those concerned. I think that you should make sure that these things don't happen, because I don't think they really benefit anyone, except for what's more, it's an old case of DS all-out fight against corruption being replaced by the front pages of the tabloids that take over both the prosecutions and the police and the courts and everything else. I think it is the agency that should not contribute to this and that indeed some of them there "curriers" or "inframmers" should not have information relating to individuals without these people themselves having information that they are being investigated. Please let us work on the fact that the application of all, of course, should not be specifically spoken in this case of the law being the same. We and in this assembly of the National Assembly have MPs who are directors of public enterprises. Why can't we make the law so that things like that can't be possible? Is this a lack of political will, it brings us back to the debate that we had yesterday, whether political will can be a condition for law enforcement, because law enforcement is not a matter of political will, law enforcement is a matter of rule of law, a matter of the rule of law, we stand at the disposal of these laws to make it more favourable for you, because the less we have some opportunities for the laws to be interpreted creatively, they are actually more favourable to citizens. When we talk about the Public Procurement Act, which you talk about a lot, it's another special topic. We have seen that the law that was announced as the greatest success of the previous ruling coalition, the same ruling coalition, did not actually give those spectacular results that were expected, is the whole part of your report that deals with the conflict of interest arising from nepotism. I would also like you to deal with the conflict of interest that has arisen for some other reasons as political belongings. We have across Serbia, in particular in Novi Sad, where I come from, situations for newly arrived party committees in power, overnight becoming directors of public enterprises. These are all the things we have to deal with, all the things we need to talk about, all the things we don't have anywhere else to talk about except you and we don't have anywhere else to talk about except here. I really don't think there's much to be said about what other MPs have said. We had the opportunity to hear like these people here who didn't do their job until the SNS came to power, so I just think it's a misrepresentation of those same people who did this job three, four, etc., years ago, we had the opportunity to hear that MPs have some information about abuses in various local self-governments and public enterprises, state bodies, institutions. I really pray for the truth that anyone who has such abuses has it delivered to the competent authorities. Don't, Mrs. Tomic was saying that when someone has some evidence that there was some kind of abuse, they ask a parliamentary question. So we're not going to ask a parliamentary question when we hear, not to hear, but when we know and we have evidence that there's been some kind of abuse. You know what happens in a case like that. We can't all act irresponsiblely on the means of citizens, so I ask the MPs who have such information to channel it in the right way, not to say things here just to give this session some content. I really think it's a common task, and that's what I'm going to end up with, all the MPs working on that you can work uninterruptedly to do a job that you're also formed for, so that we don't let someone call you "so-called" independent institutions, that we don't let someone talk about your reports as political sets, because it doesn't give a good picture of you, or of this assembly, or of Serbia as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2770	Thank you. Replica two minutes. National MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2771	You know, when ignorance prevails, we have discussions like this. (President: I would like to ask Djukanovic, yes... I'm really sorry, but I had to react like this. Why? I didn't question anyone's independence anywhere. Independence would be questioned if someone puts pressure on these organs. Yes, it is. I would ask Mr. Sretenovic, but Mrs. Babic to tell us – did someone put pressure on their current work how to work? And by the way, I can only give one grade at the time of your authority, Mr. Sretenovic seems to have submitted far less of the application than at the time of the current government where he's working very freely. And they're no independent regulatory bodies because they don't regulate anything. They're the state authorities who are obliged to file a report here and we're in control of their work. And that's what you had to learn before you came forward for a discussion like this. One more thing. Our relationship with them and yours, it looks at what you... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2772	Please, Mr. Djukanovic, speak to me as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2773	... For five or six years, you didn't want to put the Civil Protection Officer's report on a congregation discussion, and we did it right away and, of course, we're talking about it. So I'd really like to ask you to inform yourself about something before and then report for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2774	The head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2775	I'll use the time, Mr. Chairman, that remains of the authorised SNS. The last two days we've witnessed a division in this room. Tried to split in this room. There is one minority who is a minority of Serbia's citizens, who presents himself to understand the independence of independent regulatory bodies, which is fighting for independent regulatory bodies, which are concerned about the lack of capacity of independent regulatory bodies, which is concerned about the legal frameworks that are so bad that independent regulatory bodies are moving, and let there be an awful majority that humiliates, nidden, called the so-called. I think in all of this, in this last day, there's been a fierce replacement of thesis. And why do I say substitute thesis? I think the humiliation of independent regulatory bodies was, in fact, until 2011, when the reports of independent regulatory bodies were not even considered. When you have these bodies, when you have their reports and you put them in round drawers, it's humiliating independent regulatory bodies. By 2011, no act of independent regulatory bodies had been seen in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For what? Because the previous regime was afraid of what they would write or what it said in those reports, because they didn't believe these people, because they humiliated them. That's not humiliating independent regulatory bodies. The replacement is when you worry in this room that independent regulatory bodies have less capacity, but have less personnel capacity, and then when you can vote at the board's meetings to get more employees, you don't come to those sessions or be held back, or vote against. And there were Mr. Sretenovic and Mrs. Babic and Mr. Jankovic, when representatives of the DS either did not come or were restrained, or were representatives of another Democratic Party. It's the humiliation of independent regulatory bodies. Yes, yes, Mr. Sinisha Lazic, do you know him perhaps? Member and MP of the DS in the previous meeting. And those people you delegated to be on the board of directors. It's the humiliation of independent regulatory bodies. And it's not a humiliation to accept that some legal frameworks that move independent regulatory bodies with certain restrictions. We accept that even at the Anti-Corruption Agency, a law on alarmers is necessary, a law on lobbying is also necessary, that I personally don't mind. It's okay to spread the fact of the Anti-Corruption Agency and other family members, when someone has nothing to hide, there's no problem, let's question both grandson and grandfather and anyone, and neighbors if necessary. If you have nothing to hide. I also understand and accept, and therefore, the SNS will vote in full capacity for both these reports and for the Citizens' Protector's reports and for the Commissioner's reports, because we understand the value and we understand that we are on the same side. Only those who wrongly understand and interpret the law and only those who are willing to wrongly interpret the law think that we are on different sides, one who controls and one who is controlled. No, we're not. We're on the same side. We protect what we are, and that's why I think it's a good thing that on the Anti-Corruption Agency website is the name Zoran Babića, stands out for what he's got, what he's got, and what he's got in a year or what he's gonna have in 10 years or what he's gonna have, and because I've been in this business to do, as well as the rest of his colleagues from SNS, to change our society, and not to get rich, because we didn't go into jeans and go out in the Porsches, because we didn't become Prime Ministers to get vineyards after that, and then when these vineyards fail, and the subsidies are spent on "Range Rover," we'll come back into politics again to get some subsidies. We do not allow such a path, and therefore I think that this honorable job that is doing independent regulatory bodies and the value they bring into our society is understood and accepted by this ruling coalition, understood by the Prime Minister, understood by the SNS, in the right capacity and in the right sense. As much as you liked it or didn't like it, I think that all these challenges and interpretations, and we had Mrs Babic and I dialogue on interpreting the concept of "functioner" and I agree that it might have been easier to amend the law than to bring authentic interpretation, but I think that each of these challenges, legal challenges, we can solve the dialogue that exists between the state and independent regulatory bodies, as it would be my pleasure to work within the Administrative Committee to strengthen the capacity of the DRI so that it could enter into every institution, every ministry, every public enterprise, because we want to send a strong message to Serbian citizens that their money goes to the right place and spend in the right way, not to disappear in the pockets of officials and politicians. Enough with the notion that it's a state and that the budget is the place where politicians will drag their hands and get rich in person. These people are defending things like that. These people defend and protect and protect the state, but they also protect all those people who want to deal with politics for the right way and for the right reason, and that's why we're going to support them, and that's why I want to put an end to understanding and misunderstanding. Understanding and misunderstanding can only define action and not just what is declared to be the speaker, but what is done, and you have done it the wrong way. You have made laws that are disabled, which limit independent regulatory bodies, so now that you are in opposition, you say, O my God, these laws are not good. Why would you make them if they weren't good? The waste of ash is that you care about the capacity of independent regulatory bodies, and you do not vote for them to increase. Demeaning independent regulatory bodies is when you don't take those reports into consideration, but you put them in a round drawer called the waste basket. Now, that's humiliation. It's a humiliation that the SNS will never do to its citizens, will never do to the state, will never do to independent regulatory bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2776	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Replica, two minutes, MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, and then acting representative Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2777	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Djukanovic is probably unaware of what he said. Let him look at the stenogram and he will see that they are not independent regulatory bodies, but ordinary state bodies that have declared themselves independent. They are certainly available to citizens, which is far more important than your head. Anyone can see what you said. Mr Babic, when he spoke of the great respect the SNS has for independent regulatory bodies, was not in the hall when Mr Djukanovic said that the citizens' protection report is the most ordinary political pamphlet, and since the entire party will vote with full capacity for the report, I assume that his colleagues, Mr Djukanovic, are aware that they will vote for the most ordinary political pamphlet presented to this Assembly by the most ordinary state body, so-called. Independent Protector of the Citizens. That, as anyone voted, I begged Mr. Babic not to talk about it, since if we start talking about it... (President: Please do not address the MP directly. )......................................................................................................... I'm talking to you. I said I asked Mr Babic not to talk about it because the DS MPs did not vote against increasing the number of DRI employees or the Citizens' Protectors, but were MPs of the SRS, who voted against each of the laws established by every independent state body in this country and not only voted against, but directly obstructed the adoption of those laws at that time, making the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia an institution with the least reputation in this country, so that we do not talk about who voted, you will not have a good time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2778	Thank you. The motion for an act is proposed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are things I can agree with previous exhibitors, but there are things I can't agree with. I believe that with these discussions and these sessions, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia begins in the right sense of the words and essentially performs its control role as executive and other state bodies. Someone might like it, someone might not like it. We still have problems with legislation because we can't have some final accounts of the Republic of Serbia budget for 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 to adopt, and no one has thought to put those final accounts on the implementation of the budget, which is the most important law after the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to see how the ministers spent money, to see how the executive power had the money of these citizens. We can't because someone didn't want to put it on the agenda, and today it takes the DRI's opinion to put it on the agenda, and this law that regulates it came about in a later period of time than spending those funds, so we have a very serious problem in the functioning of the legal system. When someone sprays their ashes, why didn't we discuss the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia before 2012? What was hidden from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or that we had such a Law on DRI and the Law on Public Procurement that Mr. State Auditor could only write criminal charges, because such powers were previously given to him by law, which is the minister where he ate so much as I wouldn't say what, and he didn't write a report about it? It was a legal regulation that allowed DRI to work. Some things have changed in Serbia. Apparently, some of them haven't figured it out yet. We accept full responsibility for all that our ministers and our state secretaries and directors appointed by this assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing, and we are not only running away from being morally punished in some elections, but if one of them has violated the law to be sanctioned by the judicial authorities, but we also expect that all those who have violated the law will also be sanctioned by the judicial authorities. We absolutely don't spray ash here. When it comes to the Public Procurement Act, I know there have been a lot of dissatisfaction under that law. The most dissatisfied were public workers and public works performers, which tells us that the law is excellent. Maybe we should get some work done, maybe we should make it a little easier for the Commission to protect the rights in public procurement procedures, that not everyone can block the law, because it needs to pay a small fee and write a complaint and that it does not bear any responsibility that the complaint is unfounded and that public works are not done, so if it has two, three unfounded complaints, you won't be able to make offers for two, three years, or related persons, because it's an abuse of the law. Unfortunately, these are the problems our commission has. I don't want to talk about various affairs that have opened up around the Public Procurement Act. I can only say that the law has also been recognised by the international community, received recognitions from various international organisations dealing with this problem, as one of the best laws in the world. Well, it can also be someone that likes and doesn't like it, and the real effects of the law will be seen in early 2015, counting that in 2013, it wasn't fully applied, so I would refrain from criticism when it comes to the law. When it comes to the so-called independent state authorities, I would once again point out that they are designed to play their own control role. We entrusted them with our powers of control of the executive authority. They are responsible for their work to the National Assembly and every MP as bearer of the sovereignty of citizens has the right and to criticise the work of independent authorities and praise it, to say what is good in the report, what is bad, what is expected, and what has not happened. Do not disown yourselves as the people's messengers of your authority which has given you the Constitution. Transfer the powers, the law is passed and you see how your powers as MPs are fulfilled in practice. As far as dictatorship is concerned in Serbia, I can say that the Serbian Progressive Party has re-elected as the Citizens' Protector of Mr. Sasu Jankovic, re-elected as Mr. Sretenovic's auditor. There has been a change in the Anti-Corruption Agency, but these changes have not been made by this Assembly, because even one member, I think, the board of directors or the assembly, I can't remember exactly now, Mr Stoiljkovic, I think it's called, a member of the board. This assembly also confirmed a new mandate, and the committee addressed their problems in the Agency itself, those set up by some other majority and some other MPs. We didn't want to spoil the continuity of these independent bodies, not regulatory bodies. Regulatory bodies, for example, are the Agency for Energy Efficiency. These are absolutely independent. It kind of offends them when someone says "regular bodies." I believe so. So we didn't want to spoil the continuity... (President: As an authorised promoter, you have received your word. Get back to the act, please. I'm going back. We didn't want to spoil the continuity of those organs. We only asked them to act in accordance with the powers conferred upon them by law and that these powers have the result that today lies before the MPs in the light of a report and the conclusions proposed by the committees in charge. I want to do it again. With such sessions, the National Assembly also respected independent state authorities and took over in full and true terms the control role entrusted to it by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is carried out by independent state bodies on behalf of and for the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2780	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a time from Article 96.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2781	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, Mr Jankovicu, Reverend Mrs Babic, today we have two reports on the agenda – Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2013 and DRI for 2013. The new democratic party will vote in favour of the two reports and the proposed proposals that follow the reports. But at first, I want to say that the ruling coalition today and yesterday showed two different relationships to independent regulatory bodies, and I'm going to say a little later, which we heard today that they are not that independent, of the attitude that they should not be given to speak, we have come to the point of a strong hug. I'm just afraid that independent regulatory bodies won't be a little uncomfortable in that hug, because this hug is a little unexpected. It was formed from eight hours and evaluated to this day at three or four... (Zoran Babic, from the site: Theme. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2782	Don't throw an MP away. The chairman runs the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2783	Thank you, Chairman, even though it's accompanied by a smile, thank you anyway. So, I'm not sure what Mr. Arsic was going to say when he mentioned the dictatorship earlier. He'll probably explain it later. I want to ask you a few things, which is to comment together on a few issues that are important, here, first for the DRI. Namely, your work, Mr. Sretenović, makes sense if your institution does its job professionally. I'm sure you and your men are doing it professionally. However, in order for this work to experience its evaluation, it is necessary for some other authorities to act under these reports, that is, those solutions. These are, on the one hand, the institutions you control, and on the other hand, the judicial authorities that should prosecute those against whom you have filed your application. I ask you, Mr. Sretenovic, do you have any problems not having to experience satisfaction for your work at times, because on one side of the institution you control, public enterprises, they are not cooperating enough, I am talking about their managers, they are not acting by, they are called response reports, in which you are giving a warrant for them to act on your orders for a certain period of time. I understand that there are cases that they hesitate to follow those reports and orders, take up your time, seek space for themselves to possibly not apply those measures. What is the situation, as many of yours, you may have said today, but I wasn't at that moment in the O.R., solutions, or reports, sorry, criminal and criminal, never experiencing trial because of the fact that they are, by one, obsolete or relatively or absolutely out of date, so that they can't be executed? That's a serious problem. If the judicial system is not in a position to support your work and the Anti-Corruption Agency, then it is indeed an institution that, according to a fellow SNS, is not exactly independent, because their work can be obstructed by some other levers of government, which in this case is a judicial authority. On the other hand, you have the opportunity to initiate the transfer of some directors of public enterprises and executives who do not act on your orders, are you in a position to give such orders and were there such measures? Mr. Sretenovicu, I know that you, your auditory institution, should control about 700 public enterprises, more than 700 public enterprises, are likely to have been created in the meantime, and you have about 200 employees. So, you're able to control about 30% of these public enterprises annually, say, theoretically, that you're working at maximum capacity level and that this public company is back in control for about three to four years, because by some count you don't have the ability to control it next year, because you need to control those 70% to at least once be controlled, which means that you have insufficient capacity to cover all public enterprises so that they're constantly under quotes in fear that you'll come to control them. So you have insufficient capacity. You need 100 more men. I ask the MPs, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the current one and the one that was before, which is why we did not allow DRI conditions to be in full capacity, that there are enough personnel that could cover all public enterprises and institutions that need to control. If we take these factors that I said, range of DRI with maximum effort and work, quality work people cannot satisfy the task that is being put before them. Mr. Sretenovic, I'd like to hear if there are any political pressures or not? I don't have any proof of that. I wish they weren't here. I hope there weren't any in the past, not even now. Someone here mentioned the relationship between previous authorities and the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency. So this report by the Anti-Corruption Agency is the fruit of the fact that it exists. If it didn't exist, she wouldn't be able to file a report. Mr Babić, we sat together in the benches of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in King Milan. You were the opposition then, we were the position, we didn't vote this law. The first to strike the law were officials of the ruling coalition. I remember well. It wasn't very pleasant for some of my colleagues when they had to give up some of their duties, because they were MPs and they were in executive power. If you ask me what year...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2784	If we could talk about the 2013 report.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2785	If this isn't about the report, then I don't know what's in the report.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2786	You started out a little young when someone was sitting in some benches in another building.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2787	I don't think you're seriously warning me, but I just answered a colleague named Babic who took a word for it...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2788	Please don't let us go back to who, what, when you took it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2789	I didn't want to get into the controversy, Madam Chairman. I don't doubt your good intentions and I'll be back on the subject. The theme could be. This is a question for the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Dear Mrs Babic, I am interested in the extent to which the subject of your analysis and your analysis has been the use of officials' resources for political purposes. I'll clarify the question. I gave a timely parliamentary question when the elections were held in Vrbas, and it enters the reporting period we are working on, in 2013. I asked the government, then, how many vehicles and what mileage they crossed during that and that period when there was an election campaign in Vrbas. I got a correct answer. True, I covered a short period. Vehicles traveled four thousand and three hundred kilometers, just those days when the local elections were held in Vrbas. True, I haven't delivered that answer to you, but I suppose you could have been interested in the subject. So, these vehicles weren't exactly under the circumstances of those days in Vrbas. I was wondering if you might have devoted yourself to an analysis of the question. Councilman A, let Peter Petrovic change... This is an MP. (President: another name, please. ) Make it Marko Markovic and he changes party uniforms. Were you interested in whether his condition had changed in the meantime? His or her family's members, rope and wider. You probably don't believe that this committee member Marko Markovic will go to another party for ideological reasons. It's been a practice these days, these months, these years. Do you have any modalities in the Anti-Corruption Agency Act to investigate or perhaps more importantly whether an MP has reported that he has become a member of a medical institution's board of directors for which he has no compensation? I think this is an essential question. So I'm interested in this flow of public sector money to that individual, to be clear. Have any public funds been misused in order for the individual to have some luxuriant reasons to become a member of the party, rather than for ideological reasons? Is that possible under this law to investigate? If not, this law is incomplete and I suggest that it be changed. I'd like to know if you have any options under this law and your authority to examine the next situation. Function Marko Markovic said he was giving up his salaries for these and those purposes. Let's say, for a cocktail, for an abasor, for flowers, for anything, for any purpose, you give up 100% of your salary. In second place, the same official says that he gives up those same wages for other purposes. I'm interested – how this official survives from 1.1 to 31st of that month without income dinars, and in the property map...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2790	Excuse me, MP, are you aware that you are now asking for 2012, and the report is 2013?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2791	I am aware of my full material and moral responsibility. Is it possible to find such mechanisms in this report and have you properly handled the subject? Is it possible for someone to give up their salary twice and there is no other income recorded with you? I wonder if at least from a social point of view you can take care of that person how he can live during that period. We are very interested in helping to amend the Anti-Corruption Agency Act to help with your work. I agree with counterpart Babic that it may be necessary to pass a law that would regulate the alarming question. I understand that this is a serious problem, that practically anyone who discovers corruption does not have the ability to be properly protected. On the other hand, it would be important that through the amendments to the law, the competent authorities who are obliged to provide you with certain information and legally commit themselves to the threat of sanctions to do so. We also agree that the obligations and responsibilities of the competent bodies must be foreseen, i.e. by the authorities for not implementing certain plans concerning the fight against corruption, plans, etc. integrity plans, assessment of the risk of corruption regulations and implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. In that sense, NDS will also support your work and these reports with the proposals of conclusions, but I ask you to try to go to the National Assembly in the coming period with such initiatives that you will be able to provide answers to some of these very important questions that I have raised here. I am sure that we all understand the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI as independent bodies working without any influence on the part of their work, but which is controlled by the Assembly on the issues of reporting, answering questions, and I believe that this interaction between the Assembly and independent regulatory bodies must be, not by the fact that independent regulatory bodies would consider that some majority in some Assembly can influence their independence as we have delegated them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2792	Thank you. National MP Petar Petrovic. Now let me tell you if he mentioned you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 had to be offensively expressed about you. That's not what happened. It wasn't offensive. You can hurt the Rules of Procedure. You think I hurt the Rules of Procedure? Report to us after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. By the way, he didn't mention you offensively, and the fact that we mention each other's name and last name is different.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2793	Article 106. The gentleman who mentioned earlier that I changed addresses, I want to say for the public that I don't change uniforms in politics as individuals. If he already wanted to mention someone, he's got some of his MPs' group of names and names to mention, who changed the address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2794	Do you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure and you're asking for a vote today at the session? (No) The law still has to be used by the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2795	Thank you, Madam President. Certain questions have been asked, and I am grateful to Mr Vesenovic, I mention him without a desire to challenge the replica, but I am already grateful for the SNS' relationship to strengthen the capacity of independent regulatory bodies. I am pleased to say that in the previous session, since it also called the previous and this Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have given consent to 373 people in independent regulatory bodies. I don't want to waste my time saying that DRI hired 21, Fiscal Council 10, Citizen Protector 32, Anti-Corruption Agency eight plus 173. Here's how it strengthens the SNS capacity of independent regulatory bodies. Yesterday, at a session of the Administrative Committee, 90 more new consents for three independent regulatory bodies. We're not hiding from them. We communicate. We're cooperating. We're strengthening the state that way. I really thank you for the question and the points you've given me. I'm sorry that someone with the calling of a Master of European Sciences, whatever it is, doesn't realize that laws are being passed in order to be respected. That this parliament is to debate, not to warn me or other MPs to keep quiet. Someone with the calling of a Master of European Sciences would have to know that the laws are respected and that the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which says that every MP is the owner of his mandate, and therefore the owner of his thinking, I am proud to come from a party where there is a debate, in which we negotiate and exchange opinions, in which a colleague is allowed to come out and say that he has his own opinion, no matter how funny it seems to someone, it is sad when someone is mastering, if he is mastering on that subject or any other subject, although I have not found any european scientists, not even American or Asian. It is sad that it does not realise that the laws are there to be respected, that MPs are owners of their head, thinking, political conduct, and that both in the present and in the future will support the full capacity of independence of independent regulatory bodies, strengthening capacity, strengthening the legal frameworks in which they move. That's what we want to do as opposed to when even the reports of independent regulatory bodies haven't experienced the light of day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2796	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2797	Thank you, Madam President. Fellow Members of the Parliament, first of all, to thank on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group for the answers given in connection with the dilemmas we opened in today's debate when we discussed the Anti-Corruption Report, with two dilemmas still unclear and even slightly deepened to me. The first is related to the protection of personal data where Mrs. Tanja, as director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, stressed that there is a likelihood that in a new system solution, the Anti-Corruption Agency could collect data from banks and that this exclusiveity in data collection should have occurred earlier. I am merely expressing caution on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group not to enter into the data Corps that is protected from personality data, and on the other hand not to challenge the initiative of the constitutionality and legality of such a norm. There's also a dilemma that you've even further affirmed, and it's bound to norm. We as lawyers know that every norm has to be very precise, in practical application absolutely effective and the rest is that you have the initiative to formulate - that it seems to affect the behaviour of officials in performing public functions, should remain as a systemic solution. We have to admit that in this way there is a huge disposition, that this is how a very broad interpretation is caused. If it were to be considered comparatively, let's take the Penal Code as an example. Whether norms in the Criminal Code will be formulated – looks like he's committed a crime, seems to have taken over the theft of the crime scene. It looks like it's affecting the way it's handled can't be norm, it can't be an integral part of the norm, so I'm asking that this be expelled, not just from the report, but from what you're proposing as a recommendation, or as a system solution. In all other things, of course, we remain with what we have pointed out today. The SPS parliamentary group will undoubtedly vote in favour of the vote, i.e. to vote for the conclusion, and therefore support your report in everything that is not disputed for the SPS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2798	Since there are no more registered speakers as far as MPs are concerned, I give the word to Tatjana Babic, director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2799	I'll try to be as brief as possible, but I just have to answer some very important questions. Once again, we are not an independent regulatory body, we are not a body, we are a state body. We are an independent and independent state body established by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which has its powers of origin under that law and which is practically in relation to the National Assembly in relation to this interaction that someone mentioned. On the one hand, we report on the work of the National Assembly. On the other hand, the National Assembly itself reports to us, such as the report on the implementation of the National Strategy, and provides us with integrity plans. Every MP is obliged not only to report the property, but also to have all other obligations under the Agency's Law. When it comes to criminal charges, there's something I want to do right now that wasn't now among your questions. We followed the debate, yesterday in the debate, it was mentioned that the Anti-Corruption Agency has filed a criminal complaint against the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, Nevena Petrusic. I have an obligation to deny it here. That's not true. So, the Anti-Corruption Agency has never filed criminal charges against Nevena Petrusic. That's the first thing. The second thing, again, there's been a question of leaks of information. I know why that question came up, and we all know that. Therefore, some media have seen content of criminal charges filed by the Anti-Corruption Agency to competent prosecutors. I responsibly claim that the content of criminal charges has not been obtained from the Agency. All measures have been taken at the Agency to protect the confidentiality of these data. It's just not a question for the Agency. We, when we published the names of the persons against whom criminal charges were filed, have made a note that all persons are subject to the assumption of innocence in accordance with the Constitution and the law, which, of course, no one has passed. As soon as it appeared in the paper, we reacted the same day in a way that we strongly opposed such a practice of the media and that in this way, in the most harsh way, the assumption of the innocence of those faces was marred. So, really, guilt still has to be proven or there's no guilt. What the public has the right to know, is whether a particular officer is being prosecuted, whether the procedure is terminated, or what is the epilogue of the proceedings before the Agency and whether a criminal complaint or a request for the initiation of a criminal proceedings has been filed. What we're giving the public, it's just the data that's allowed to be reported. That is my responsibility as director of the Agency. If someone could prove otherwise, of course there's a responsibility. One MP repeatedly mentioned that the Assembly entrusted the Agency with powers. No, we don't exercise trusty powers, we exercise powers that come from the law that we've been established, which has been passed by the National Assembly, but it's not the original authority of the National Assembly to resolve conflict of interest or control the property of the officials, so that she can entrust that authority to the Agency. No, every state body here has its jurisdiction. At the very beginning, I said, when we are reporting property related persons, according to the current law, the official is obliged to report his property, spouse and underage child living with him in a family household. The standard in other developed countries is that this circle of connected persons is wider, because this narrowing of the circle of connected persons opens up a space for abuses, by transferring the property to a full - time child or parents, and that property does not have to be reported. This does not mean that if the official has no knowledge of the property, he can say that he is responsible for saying that he has no knowledge of the property, but in that case the Agency must have the right to address the connected person. I repeat again, if simply the National Assembly considers that the property of the functioner should be controlled. If you feel that it should not be controlled, then you simply need to abolish that authority of the Agency, because on the one hand you give us the authority to control the property, and on the other hand you don't give us almost any mechanisms. You are contesting our right to propose amendments to the law, to ask for data from banks, which is otherwise the right under the Law on the financing of political activities. You're even contesting our right to ask other state authorities. There's a sanction if we have another state authority within 15 days, and that's a criminal sanction that's extremely low. Then, of course, you ask us with full right – what have you done, what are the results of your work? What we're accomplishing now is the maximum we can achieve with those powers we have. So it can always be better, but it can be better when we have more capacity or when we have more money in the budget to improve the information system. As for this challenge to our proposal to abandon the President of the Republic and Government from the mandated proposing members of the Agency's board, I fully agree with you that not proposing someone by the Government does not guarantee his independence. I agree because first of all I have experience, because we had board members who were proposed by the President of the Republic and the Government and who were, not independent, but simply people of integrity. But what is important is that the law guarantees independence, that this independence is not assumed to be, but that the law guarantees it by reducing the influence of the executive authority. We'll stay with that proposal. I guess it's a system law. It's gonna be a public debate. It won't be adopted by an emergency procedure. I finally have to answer for the ban on humanitarian activities. I forgot which MP asked that question. Here's why it's not allowed. It's not strictly forbidden by law. Just because it's not explicitly forbidden doesn't mean it's allowed. So, of course, it's a humanitarian activity and every humanitarian activity is something that the Agency will support, but it's simply a law for what money is spent from budgets and other sources. It's being spent on promoting the idea of a political subject. If members of the party want to be human, and that is understood, the law does not prohibit them from organising themselves informally and as members of the party to deposit money or in any way help, physically or in any way. But what they can't do is carry out humanitarian activity propagating their own political idea. And especially what they can't do is that by performing humanitarian activity with the taxpayers' money, they're propagating their political idea. Therefore, if you consider that humanitarian activities should, and should, be, given that there are parties who are often involved in humanitarian activities, it is obvious that they need more money to be allocated to these needs, simply, let less money be given to the parties for their regular work and funding, and let more money in the budget be allocated to humanitarian funds. That's my suggestion. I just wanted to say that the MP mentioned that the Agency's competencies were weak. On the contrary. They are not weak, but they are very numerous and complex, but the mechanisms for applying these powers are weak. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2800	Thank you. Radoslav Sretenovic, president of the State Audit Institute, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2801	I thank you, President. Before I give the final word in today's debate on the report of the DRI, I would like to answer a few questions from MPs who are addressed, above all by MPs Vladimir Djukanovic and Mr Janko Veseinovic. Mr Djukanovic specifically asked – what are the entities and what are the persons in the loan allocations relating to the Agency for Insurance and Financing of the amount that was the subject of our audit during 2013. Namely, this is about several basics and taking appropriate actions by the DRI, and it is 68 cases. I wouldn't list them all right now, you have detailed information on our report on those legal entities that took over these loans in an unauthorized way. I just want to say that it's about an unauthorized extension of credit repayment deadlines in 17 cases, and it's about an amount of over five million euros. We still have the non-acquirement of the billing of the due loans and the failure to carry out the non-intentional use of the loan. It is also in 17 cases, and it is worth over five million and 200 euros. We further have the approval of loans against all applicable procedures in the Agency of 28.6m euros in 34 cases. With regard to those irregularities, the DRI has filed a criminal complaint against the responsible persons in the Agency. On your second question regarding the functioning of financial management, I would briefly say that the subject of our audit, with each audit entity, is to assess how the financial management system works, whether it has been put in place in the best way, or whether the system has been tested, whether internal control is in place, whether internal audit has been established, etc. I can provide information that of these 56 entities that we audited based on the examination of the functioning of the internal control system of 52 entities we found, i.e. we did not make sure that the internal control system was established in a way that by its operation it provided business in accordance with regulations, internal acts and contracts. The same is true in the functioning of an internal audit, also in 56 entities. In 17 cases, we made sure that the internal audit system was organized, and in 90 subjects, it wasn't. In this respect, the DRI is working to strengthen this financial management system. We've just formed one working group, along with the Central Harmonization Unit, within the Ministry of Finance, and we're working on raising and strengthening this system and introducing all the audit entities. Your third question referred to the DRI procedures in the processes when submitting applications. To this day, DRI has filed a total of 741 applications. Of that number, 592 applications refer to a request for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure, 75 applications for a commercial offence and 74 criminal charges. Out of the 592 claims filed for the initiation of a misdemeanour, courts against the responsible persons have so far passed, and these first-degree convictions, 94 condemning, three convictions are liberating, one procedure has been suspended, one motion rejected. As far as judicial judgments are concerned, there are 89 judicial convictions, five convictions are acquittal and 14 proceedings have been suspended. When it comes to applications for a commercial offence, out of a total of 75 charges to the prosecution against the responsible persons, seven first-degree convictions were issued, one application was rejected. Also, judicial verdicts have been passed – 11 convictions, two acquittals, one acquittal has been suspended, and one adjudication has been dismissed. For legal persons, when it comes to filing criminal charges, so far we have received only two convictions, one procedure has been suspended and all other criminal charges are under way. [[The President: Please, a little quieter, nothing is heard in the hall.]] When I talk about applications, to take the opportunity to answer the question asked by Mr. Vesenovic, yes, we also got the answers of the judges of the criminal courts, where we were rejected of applications, that is to say the verdicts, and that is a liberating verdict because of the question of limitations. In all the reports where we received such convictions, the DRI filed a request to the High Court of Appeals, and somewhere we launched proceedings before the Court of Cassation for the protection of its rights. Lately, we have also received reports from a large number of misdemeanor courts who are not competent in the processing of our misapplications concerning the Law on the Budgetary System, which are related to the application of the Public Procurement Act. By 1 April 2013, when the old Public Procurement Act was in force, all our applications and processes were to be carried out before criminal courts, and since 1 April for all those infringements in the area of public procurement, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Vendors has been competent. Exactly, we've been given solutions to suspending proceedings for reasons that the courts have called incompetent. Regarding these courts, we have sent information and a request to the High Court of Appeal and to the President to give us information on why this happened. Namely, regarding the above-mentioned solutions on the jurisdiction of criminal courts, we have now received feedback from the Republic of the Agency for the Protection of Vendors, which also appeared to be unauthorized and we are in one vacuum, where the Constitutional Court should assess and give consent to which court is now in charge. Imagine what time will pass and then such reports will likely become obsolete. Of course, we are not satisfied with the judgments in the proceedings brought by lawless courts. It's not my place to judge the work of independent courts, but there are also applications that stand for three, four and five years and have not been resolved by the process, and it's about applications that have been processed. Mr. Veselinović, your question is any of our co-operation with the audit entities? I can tell you that so far we've had extremely correct cooperation. There were a few cases of small obstruction at first, but we applied the law anyway and such anomalies were removed. As for the response reports, the DRI has received all responding reports from all audited users so far. In the audit procedures, we evaluated and gave an assessment of the response report, whether the recommendations were made, whether the recommendations were ongoing, whether the recommendations were removed or not, etc. In two cases, we got from two audit entities that we didn't have any evidence and we didn't make sure that our recommendations were made, so we did a review of those reports, we found that a falsified report and filed criminal charges against the responsible persons for falsifying this official document. Of course, in the meantime, the authorities in these entities who appointed the director at these jobs have also been replaced. As far as political pressures are concerned, I can say that the DRI had no pressure from any of the users, any responsible person, any minister, during both the past and the current period. [[President: Please just speak in the microphone, MPs say they can't hear you. I will. Thank you.]] Finally, I would like to thank all the MPs who discussed today and showed support for their presentations, but they have also given constructive suggestions to improve our further work and co-operation. In addition to the large professional, professional and independent work of the DRI in achieving a law of trust, it cannot be enough or effective without parliament's support. Parliament should help with its conclusions that the executive authority follows the recommendations of the DRI. We are here to help in any case in making recommendations, initiatives to amend the applicable laws, based on the information we have come into the audit procedures, or to find that there are appropriate negative consequences and unplanned results in the procedures. Of course the DRI is taking over all activities in the fight against corruption along with other state bodies and independent institutions. In this regard, we strengthen the internal control system, internal audits. We organized a big gathering where we invited all the ministers, all the state secretaries, the presidents of large municipalities, all the mayors, the finance chiefs, and we wanted to say what it was like to benefit from the establishment of this system, what benefits they benefit from internal control, from internal audit, from external audit, because we believe that strengthening this function of the financial management system, above all, internal control and internal audit, because it is the first misery in spending, non-intentional spending of budget funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-05-0.u2802	I'm concluding a joint single search. Since we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposals for conclusions set out in points 4 and 5 of the agenda. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the parliamentary group of the SPS. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to article 193 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of the debate... I ask Ambassador Marijan Risticevic to allow us to work. Ambassador Risticevic, please allow us to work. ... For the parliamentary groups, it is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups if they have not done so immediately to file a statement with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative, Dr. Diana Vukomanovic, want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. I ask the MPs not to receive. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which determines 16.08 hours, on 5 June 2014, as the Day of Vote on agenda items of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs is present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their parliamentary cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 164 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. In view of the fact that, on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of 30 May 2014, one amendment has been submitted, in accordance with Article 160. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will decide first on the draft conclusion in principle, then on the tabled amendment and finally on the proposal for a conclusion in general. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Regular Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2013, which was submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality on 30 May 2014 in principle. No need to pause, we've joined the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154 against – two abstentions – there is no, no vote – 11 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a conclusion in principle. At the point of the 1st amendment, MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Enis Imamovic and Sabina Dazdarevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: there is no, no, no, there is no, there is no, there is no – 167 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have come to the conclusion on the amendment, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a conclusion in general. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Regular Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2013, which was submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality on 30 May 2014 in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164 against – two abstentions – there is no, no vote – three of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion in general. We are moving to the 2nd item of the agenda - A REGULAR YEARLY REPORT FOR 2013 One year, with the proposal to lock up the Committee on Human and Mankind Rights and Gender Equality of 30. In May 2014, the Council YEARS AND PROPOSAL OF THE CONCLUSION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE, THE COUNTRY AND THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT OF 2. June 2014 In view of the fact that two amendments have been submitted to the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality since 30 May 2014, in accordance with Article 160. The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will decide first on the draft conclusion in principle, then on the amendments submitted and, ultimately, on the proposal for conclusions in general. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the 2013 Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector, which was submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality on 30 May 2014, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, v – two, abstentions – there are no votes, two of the 169 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft conclusions in principle. At the point of the 1st amendment, MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Enis Imamovic and Sabina Dazdarevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Enis Imamovic and Sabina Dazdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 167 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have come to the conclusion of the amendments, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a conclusion in general. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the 2013 Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector, submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality on 30 May 2014, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – two abstentions – there is no vote, not one of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion in general. I would like to put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the 2013 Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector, submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government on 2 June 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166, no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a conclusion by majority. We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda – PUBLICATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE FREE APPLICATION OF INFORMATION FROM THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF PERSONAL DATA FOR 2013. One year, with the proposal to lock up the Committee on Human and Mankind Rights and Gender Equality of 30. In May 2014, the Council YEARS AND PROPOSAL OF THE CONCLUSION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE, THE COUNTRY AND THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT OF 2. June 2014 I would like to put my opinion on the proposal for a conclusion on the examination of the report on the implementation of the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2013, which was submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality on 30 May 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal for a conclusion. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the examination of the report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Meaning and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2013, submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government on 2 June 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal for a conclusion. We are moving to item 4 of the agenda – Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2013. One year, with a report on the implementation of a national strategy against corruption in the Republic of Serbia for the 2013 period. This Regulation shall YEARS AND ACCION PLAN FOR HER IMPLEMENTATION, SUPPORT OF THE CONCLUSION OF THE FUNDS COMMITTEE, THE REPUBLIC BUDGET AND THE CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC AUTHORITIES OF 29. In May 2014, the Council YEARS AND PROPOSAL OF THE CONCLUSION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE, THE COUNTRY AND THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT OF 2. June 2014 I would like to put my opinion on the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the 2013 report of the Anti-Corruption Agency, with the report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period 2013 to 2018 and the Action Plan for its implementation, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 29 May 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal for a conclusion. I would like to put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the 2013 report of the Anti-Corruption Agency, with the report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018 and the Action Plan for its implementation, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government on 2 June 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal for a conclusion. We are moving to the 5th item of the agenda — A REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE COUNTRY REVISION INSTITUTIONS FOR 2013. One year, with the proposal to lock up the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds of 2. June 2014 For the year, I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the State Auditing Institution for 2013, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 2 June 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one of the 170 MPs present, voted for – 169. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal for a conclusion. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPS parliamentary group. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 4 June 2014, at 19.05 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 96. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted 20 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decisions on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I conclude the fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
