ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1153	Thank you very much. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, I have a few questions for the Minister and for the Ministry of Agriculture alone, but before I move on to direct questions, I want to say some things. First, until now what has been proposed by the DHSS, and it has been accepted, has turned out to be useful both for the Ministry of Agriculture and for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for the citizens themselves. Secondly, what has not been accepted, as our proposal on the occurrence of aflatoxin, the result of which had been replaced by certain assistants at the Ministry of Agriculture, which we know from the last call of the National Assembly, the resignation of the minister and, in my opinion, the aflatoxin affair, which was harmful and which produced, in my opinion, the unwarranted shift of certain people who are not guilty of the affair. The third thing I have to mention is certainly the fact that no one here gets angry, and I'm going to be subjective and say that we have a great Committee on Agriculture that prepares me, of course, when we're always talking about topics in the field of agriculture, this so-called Council of Elders. Everything DHSS and I have proposed before it so far to the Minister of Agriculture Glamočić, he accepted these suggestions and proved to be a very good solution. My direct questions, agriculture ministers, are next. First of all, there's no day without happening anywhere or reading in the media that food poisoning happened, whether it's kindergartens, whether it's schools, restaurants, etc. We've come to an analysis that, besides the others, the three most common reasons for that. First, there are unclear regulations regarding competent inspections. First of all, I mean the veterinary inspection, the health inspection and the agricultural inspection, that there is no clear definition of jurisdiction as to what controls it. The second is irresponsibility, i.e. poor working conditions in facilities for production, preparation, but also distribution and food service. The third is insufficient, I would say, poor technical, material and financial equipment and an insufficient number of inspectors, particularly veterinary issues. So my first question is – when will the laws that have already been mentioned in the inspection be found here finally in the assembly procedure, and when will the number of inspectors, particularly veterinary inspectors, be filled in? Of course, being an inspector for this country, if he's quality and if he's good, won't be an absolute expense. To get a good inspector, for example, in the veterinary service, it takes at least five years, and only the state can benefit from good inspectors. The second thing, since we have received an export quota of meat, about 8,000 tonnes, from that quota so far is about a tenth, and I don't think it's a tenth. The reasons for that are numerous. First of all, I'm talking about the catastrophic state of livestock, and when I say livestock, then I primarily think about cattle and pig farming. What matters is that we don't lack quality, but also the number of cattle, where the quantity of cattle is at a dramatic level in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1154	MPs, please listen to Ambassador Olga Batic. You can't even hear it in the O.R. what question he's asking. I'm sorry, I'll give you back your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1155	Thank you very much. I never heard from myself again. So my question is -- what will the Ministry of Agriculture do to increase exports of everything mentioned, to increase the number of livestock in the country in Serbia, to increase investment in livestock farming and improve the quality of meat? So what will the Ministry of Agriculture do about it? Finally, what about the strategy for the development of agriculture, which must contain something like this, and I must admit, in a very small part, it deals with veterinaryism. We referred our suggestions to the plan of agriculture and delivered it to Minister Glamočić in writing. He accepted it, but for some reason, I care and ask the question when will it come to the agenda? My third question is this. The competition or tender for the allocation of the field to veterinary stations for the performance of the programme's operations and animal health measures, which means diagnostics and preventive vaccination, was announced last year. That job isn't done. Now May is the month, and I think it's time to start with one of those cattle protection programs. My last question was also addressed to the agriculture ministers – when the cells that have just applied will get solutions on trust in jobs and when finally the programmes will start to work, because I don't think it's good to do it in summer, at plus 40 degrees, it's not good for the peasant to suffer damage and it's not good that the cattle are unprotected.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1156	Time. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1157	Madam President, I will address the government. I ask for explanations on the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which made the decision, and on the non-constitutional nature of the regulation on a special way of recognising Kosovo University diplomas. It is in a series of these decisions made by the Constitutional Court, as well as when the question of the parent book, the cadastre and the decision expected in relation to the integrated transitions. In all media analyses, a basic emphasis has been given -- how much the Constitutional Court of Serbia leaves room for daily politics or how these decisions will reflect Brussels talks on normalising relations between Serbia and Kosovo. At least in this case, we are talking about the practical effects of this Constitutional Court decision on the ground, which was intended for this Brussels agreement on the recognition of university diplomas, which are the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, where it was meant to allow young Albanians to finally become employed, because it is quite a long period of not solving these problems. The consequences of this decision will be disastrous, as have been the disastrous consequences of earlier practices of non-recognition of Kosovo diplomas, both after Kosovo's declaration of independence and even more difficult since 1991 and 2002. So, in a very long period, there is no problem with the recognition of these diplomas, a diploma in Kosovo universities where young people are mostly studying in this area. This has so far had very negative consequences and led to the mass departure of young people from this area, both towards Kosovo and towards European countries. Hence, we have a major problem for asylum seekers across European countries. When the problem of asylum opened, which young people in this area are looking for, not only in Belgium, which first alarmed this problem, and then Germany and other European countries, that's when this issue opened that people are finishing colleges, and they can't get hired have no perspective for a normal life. In this regard, now, after the Constitutional Court's decision, the question is – how much longer will it take to solve this important life problem for our citizens? Let's leave the problem and the relationship. A completely different problem is normalising relations with Kosovo. Here's the problem with our citizens. How long will it take to solve this life problem? I think the government has to urgently seek solutions in this situation. I know from practice that certain rectorates have avoided resolving the demands of graduates at the universities of Pristina or other Kosovo universities with an explanation... It has just begun to comply with these regulations with the government's regulation, and now it turns out that this regulation is unconstitutional. [[off microphone.]] I'm looking for an explanation of what the government is going to do specifically to solve this very sensitive life problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1158	The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1159	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Republic of Serbia has been given the opportunity to open the fifth component to EU accession funds, which is intended exclusively for rural development by obtaining EU candidate status. The terms of entry into the IPARD fund process have been accredited by two institutions: the managing body and the Agrarian Payments Authority. Last March, the agriculture ministry announced the possibility of using 10m euros from the IPARD Fund for the Development of our agrarian in 2013, but a negative response came from the European Commission in July, as our institutions were not ready, or accredited to use these funds. In the ministry, they justified their failure by the fact that, for the development of our agriculture and without EU funds, enough was provided, which is an absolute lie, because the budget rebalance was reduced by the agrarian budget in the middle of last year. After that, the Committee on Agriculture announced that accreditation for the use of IPARD funds would be completed by the end of last year and that Serbia will be able to use 30m to 40m euros in annual EU grants to develop its agrarian. However, accreditation has not yet been completed and I am worried that Serbia will not be able to use these grants this year either. Taking into account the above, I am asking the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, as well as the European Integration Office, when will the process of accreditation of Serbian institutions for the use of IPARD funds, as well as will Serbia be able to use certain funds of the Fund this year? In February of this year, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I participated in Brussels at a conference called "public Health and Consumer Security". According to the facts and data presented at the conference, Serbia is in the final place in the area of the food security control system, even behind Albania. In the past two years, the government has done almost nothing to establish a food safety system. This also proves the case of aflatoxin in milk when 10 times the concentration of aflatoxin in milk is increased overnight, and more than a year the government cannot return that border to European level, although we hear every day assurances that we drink healthy and safe milk. I ask the question of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection – when will the accreditation of the national reference laboratory for food safety control in Batajnica be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1160	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1161	In the last six months, we've had frequent poisoning of children with food, children from school and preschool institutions. On behalf of the parents of those children, I ask Minister of Education Srdjan Verbic, asking the Ministry to give me a legal answer as to what the Education Ministry is doing specifically to resolve this problem or, to begin with, at the very least, reduce it. So in the last six months, we've had three schools in Belgrade whose children were poisoned with food. Yesterday we received information that the poisoned children were in a preschool facility in Rasca. If we add to that preschool children from Valjev and Novi Sad, I have to notice that food poisoning has become a common and unacceptable phenomenon. These children's parents are looking for guilt, looking for the responsibility of those who caused it. When I say this, then I don't mean all kinds of inspections and surveillance services that do their part of the job in those situations. For example, they reported preventive surveillance services that the area where food was sold to the students of the “Stevan Sremac” school in Borca did not meet the basic hygiene conditions. Then, the Educational Inspectorate found that this school had a problem with inadequate lease space. The parents of these children also believe that school directors whose children were poisoned with food are terminating contracts with suppliers, so due to inadequate control they re-establish with suppliers of these same contracts. It's just that I think it's time we realized that this is a problem in the state and that it has to be solved in a different way. I will remind you, and in the previous session, Minister Jovanovic said when one of the poisoning cases happened that someone would end up in prison, that there would be a court case. None of that happened. Minister Srdjan Verbic himself recently said that his visit to the "Stevan Sremac" school in Borca was his first working day and that he did not expect his first working day to pass. That is why I ask him – what is the particular ministry doing in terms of solving this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1162	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1163	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, my question goes to the Ministry of Health and the newly elected Minister of Health. I had no intention, I wanted to spend three months and see how the new health minister would set up a strategy for reforming the health system, but a few things happened and I want to ask Mr. Loncar - why is the foster home in Ruma closed and why is the pediatrics closed in Vrbas? We are aware that we are fighting to improve our nation's nationality. But by closing hospitals because of that, in the explanation I got, that there are not enough doctors is one big nonses in Serbia. I also want to draw attention to the public of Serbia that we have a surplus doctor, and then hospitals are closing because we have a lack of doctors. This is one big thing that must be resolved quickly for the citizens of Ruma and the citizens of Vraba to provide health care in their environments. The mistake lies because in the last term we banned the reception of new doctors over the next two years by the Budgetary System Act, where doctors are banned from employment and we need to understand that Serbian healthcare is in one big problem. I wish Mr. Minister a lot of success in his work, but I warn him that you have a lot of problems on all sides, that it is necessary to undo this decision to receive a doctor and that we have the opportunity to educate and have the opportunity to hire young doctors in some hospitals where we have a surplus. If I say that I am the youngest doctor at my clinic at 46 years of age, it clearly shows that every clinic in Serbia has a problem with the lack of doctors, and the state has banned the reception of new young doctors. I want to draw attention to another nonsensus, which is that in the last session here we have passed the Law on the Protection of Pregnants and Breeders. We all fought that they had a lot of rights, and then a few days ago in Belgrade we reduced their privileges from 50,000 dinars to 20,000 dinars. I don't think we should be saving on pregnant women and mothers and children. We can save on MPs, politicians, on official travels, but here we must be aware that no one will enter the planned pregnancy unless there is one financial security and no possibility of planning his family. What I mean is, when I have the opportunity, the Minister of Health, besides wanting to start a more successful work at the Ministry of Health, and to draw attention to the fact that the waiting lists of Serbian citizens are even bigger. So, every week these waiting lists increase. In the last term, I've repeated it, and I'm going to repeat it now -- as if someone has been consciously trying to destroy the health sector for the past 20 years, to transfer all patients to private clinics, so let's close down all state clinics. If we started closing the gynecology in Ruma, if we started closing the pediatrics in Vrbas, let's shut down all state clinics. I don't think that's the answer. I think we need to understand that we need state health to develop in a transparent way, that the citizens of Serbia know what they have from their health insurance, that this health insurance allows them a good, quality treatment, and not that we have a number of cases where citizens continue to beg in various SMS actions to treat their children. One of the frantic examples, and the question of the Minister of Health, is it possible that the Republic Health Insurance Fund would refuse the Banjica Consulium, which recommended the treatment of a nine-year-old child? I won't mention the name and last name and diagnosis of that child. I am ready to deliver to Mr. Loncar after I was personally present with the child and his family at the Consulium in Banjaca, where a decision was made to treat the child abroad, in Zurich, and that the Republic Health Insurance Fund had rejected him. I'm asking a question as a professor of medical school, who are these people in the Republic Fund who can turn down experts, primarius, professors from Banjaca who have made a clear decision on the continued treatment of this patient? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1164	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic, Miljan Niko, Aleksandar Jablanovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in the light of the principled review on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on National Minorities Councils of National Minorities, in addition to the representatives of the promoters Dr. Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, I have also called on the sittings to attend Nina Fira, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Danica Polic, Adviser at the Ministry of State Administration on Local Self-Government and Gordan Govedarica, an independent adviser at the Office for Human and Minority Rights. We'll wait a minute, two minutes for the minister and her advisors to enter the O.R. They're in the building just to get into the O.R. We're continuing the search in principle. The word is Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1165	Dear Presidents, Madam Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, in my opinion amendments and additions to the National Minority Council Act have three very important newspapers. The first is that the election process for the councils of national minorities is being improved and this change highlights the expertise of the electoral authority. So far, elections have been held by the Central Election Commission. From now on, amendments and additions to this law will be done by RIK, as an expert body that will allow for more consistent and legal implementation of the elections. Another very important newspaper is the introduction of so-called emergency elections in the national councils themselves. So far, this possibility has not existed, and in practice, following the constitution of the National Minorities Council, it has been disbanded and the Ministry has formed a provisional body that has served as a national council, which will no longer be possible after the adoption of the amendments and the addition of this law. The third, in my opinion, is a very important newspaper of amendments and the addition of this law, which is more than the responsibility of the council, greater transparency of work, legal certainty and the rule of law. Since we are expected to vote for national councils at the end of the year, I think it is necessary to welcome them with a clear, unambiguous and precise electoral procedure and therefore I find it very important to amend and supplement this law of the minority immediately at the beginning of the session of this assembly of parliament. Also, it is very important that the amendments and additions of this law have entered into everything, I would say that the amendments to this law are the result of consensus of work and working group and all 19 national councils and that, in amendments and additions to this law, take all objections from independent regulatory bodies, which primarily referred to the way members of the national councils, to their mandates and obligations to those who have chosen them. When I say obligations to those who have chosen them, then I will mention only one of the series of objections that were made by members of the national minorities in Serbia who delivered to us as ambassadors. For example, many members of minority communities did not know how to spend the funds allocated annually from the Republic of Serbia's budget for national councils, which are at the disposal of the President of the National Council. The amendments and additions to this law achieve not only transparency in work, but also more specifically define the powers of the President of the National Council himself. I am proud to say that minorities in Serbia have the right to their own language, letter, education, information in their native language, as well as the right to protect cultural identity. The constitution and a series of laws have created legal frameworks that respect their rights and I think it is very important for the development of democracy in every country. Also, minorities in Serbia actively participate in political life through national parties that are secured to enter parliament, but through a list of major parties they have functions in the Republic of the province government, in local self-government, and participate in the state administration. It is certain that we all have a lot of problems in these difficult economic conditions, but I think this law will create conditions for a better choice of national councils and this exposure will end with a statement by Mr. Lajcak, who was in Serbia seven days ago, who said that Vojvodina was an example of how national minorities are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1166	The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1167	Dear President, honourable MPs, I really spoke very affirmatively of this law yesterday as a representative of one of the national minorities who lives and exists in this country and who is authoritative. I want to pay particular attention to what you said, which is what follows us, which is practically monitoring the financing and control of the funds spent. We know that this law clearly defines and eliminates illogicalness and that the law will cross, i.e. it will take the advice of the Office for Human and Minority Rights into account. As for the financing itself, the office itself took full funding on 3 August 2012. We have a statement here, or I have an auditor's report on how it worked, for example. my National Bosniak Council, which is what their report is, how money was spent and how practically the financing of the citizens of this country was taken care of. I have to point out more, and I'd like you to give us a more detailed explanation of whether there will be a change, because under this law, I saw that in Article 71. The law on the budgetary system, the National Minority Councils Act, the Office for Human and Minority Rights, that national councils can hire independent auditors who will practically supervise. Is there going to be a next change in that? I must also say that I am appalled by what I have received from the auditors, this data in which the National Greater Bosniak has abused and used these funds. We have exactly 15 things here that are illogical and for a normal man impossible. In 2013, the Council paid off about seven and a half million dinars, for which no documents and payment bases were delivered, and then spent about four and a half million dinars on personal expenditures, means travel expenses, and two million dinars were foreseen, etc. In time, people spent money, they didn't report how they did it, they didn't take gas bills, they didn't take sleeping bills, they didn't take any bills to support their consumption, which is simply unimaginable that it's happening in this country. In the end, I want to say that the auditor has brought much here and I am not saying this because of the Sandzak citizens who know how this money has been misused, and I will only say that in 2012, according to the report, it was transferred to this National Council about 200,000 euros, and in 2013, according to the auditor's report, 220,000 euros. It means there was a serious abuse. Yesterday, I stated that the Council had practically registered, and this is here according to the official report by the auditors, eight million and 880 thousand dinars on investments in the business space of the Council, and I stressed that this was the municipality of Novi Pazar in 2004, which practically transferred ownership to the use of the National Minority Council. It means that there have been serious abuses and that this law must give such a solution to the future, of course after consulting with the Constitutional Court, that these things no longer happen. Once again, I am talking about all this because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia whose funds are being spent, because we certainly know in Sandzak that this money has been misused, and it is clear to the people of Sandzak. Once again I want to say that the law is really affirmative, that it solves many things, is an extremely positive thing and the establishment of an executive board, it's another possibility to make it easier for the Council to function and make the right decisions in certain crisis situations to give the right solutions. It is a functional committee, of course after which the National Council is declared, but it is another option that facilitates and improves the function of the National Council itself. We, as a political option, will work together with our coalition partners, and that is the prime minister's basic message, to make all things transparent. We do not want the money of Serbian citizens to be misused for anything other than what real conditions really exist. Therefore, this law will indeed support and be affirmative in giving arguments and, you will later see, making any proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1168	The word is made by MP Miletic Mihajlovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advocating a violation of a 106th-grade member by which the speaker can speak only about the agenda point. If we listened carefully, we could see that the previous speaker was actually talking about the work of the Bosniak National Council in 99% of his presentation, and that in that 1% he touched this law and the changes and additions that we are discussing today. You were really obliged to warn him, especially because no one in this legitimate Bosniak institution is in the O.R. today so he can answer these charges and there really is no one in this room representing this Bosniak institution. It is inappropriate that the second day in a row you allow the ruling majority MPs from the pay phone to literally attack the Bosniak National Council, because it is not the Bosniak National Council that is being discussed here, but rather the amendments and additions of the National Councils Act are being discussed. I don't know if it's some threatening message that the entire ruling majority sends to Bosniaks and sends to legitimate Bosniak institutions. Seeing as you're giving him a big space for it, I have reason to believe he is. Please warn the speaker in future that the work of the Bosniak National Council is not the topic of this session and that it may request a special session or a special way of discussing it. Since I see that they are also monitoring the work of the DRI, it would be good to send a report from the state auditor who gave for the town of Novi Pazar, in which Mr Bacevac is in the coalition, in which he holds power, on the spending of the resources of the citizens that the state auditor has seen and on irregularities. So, follow the state's work of the state auditor and the report on the town of Novi Pazar.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1170	I fully agree that at one of the National Assembly sessions, there will certainly be a report by the State Auditor on budget spending, as well as spending on the budgets provided for national councils. I understood my fellow MPs, although he, to put it this way, very skillfully carried out his intention into action, because he mentioned the shortcomings of the existing law and amendments and additions and referred to the work of one of the national councils, but we will make sure that no such thing happens in the next session. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) The next speaker is National MP Miletic Mihajlovic, and let the MP Branislav Blažic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1171	I have the opportunity, on behalf of the SPS, to present some aspects concerning the rope and in the broader context of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. Certainly, the SPS supports these amendments and additions to this law that we are considering today and the fact is that these changes and additions will significantly contribute to the improvement of the normative in this area and prevent the improvisations that were in the previous period, applying the previous, still valid law. Of course, it is important to say that we as an SPS are absolutely in favour of achieving all collective and individual rights of members of national minorities, and in accordance with the Constitution, in particular with Article 75, which guarantees the right of each individual to his national identity and to his own expression of national membership, as well as in accordance with the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, a very significant document of the Council of Europe. Often, the public does not understand what national councils of national minorities are, which is their role, which is their place in the system, and even they identify themselves with political parties who seek something, who invent something, who pursue some separatist goals. Even in such a way someone understands it, which is of course far, far from the truth. That is why it is always necessary in every place, when we talk about national councils of national minorities, to repeat multiple times that they are legitimate representatives of national minorities, that it is a legitimate body, to say, one national minority, through which rights of self-government are exercised in four important areas for that group, for that minority, which is culture, education, notification and official use of language and letters. In particular, when it comes to the National Minorities Act, it was brought in 2009, with one of the best intentions. It should also be said that the national councils are a constitutional category, defined by the 2006 Constitution, that the adoption of this law in 2009 was in fact a desire and goal to specify and determine the functions of these national rights in terms of the legal exercise of the rights of national minorities. Unfortunately, practice has shown a series of shortcomings in this law. Of course, as always happens, the application of a law in practice shows what could not be seen at the time when the law was passed. Nothing here needs to be particularly qualified in a negative context now, etc., but it is simply necessary to approach analytically, as it is now. The promoter seems to be significantly improving this legal matter. I think that in the next period, national councils will function better in favour of achieving the rights and freedoms of national minorities. It is important to say, for all time, that the state of Serbia has been going backwards and going along and going along the path of creating constitutional and legal but also social and political environments and frameworks, in which national minorities will feel in Serbia as they do in their home, which is very important. I think such an opinion is shared by the largest number of national minorities in Serbia today. That feeling certainly has a wet national community from which I come. I can say that, in a broader sense, what the Vlach national interests are coincides with what Serbian national interests are, but when I put an equal sign of equality, I think of what state interests are. I mean, they're national interests. Of course, in a narrow sense, there are those specificities that are typical of the national minority, including the one I'm talking about, which is certainly the interests of preserving customs, culture, language, respect for origin and each particularity of an ethnic community, or group. So, in the broader context of the discussion and the discussion of this law, I am in favour of some aspects that can't be seen from the bill, but which have certain implications of what life is and being a national community, a national minority, to talk about a matter of essential position and issues relevant to the Vlach national minority, and in the context of this law. When it comes to Vlassi, you have to know the next thing you know. The authorities are a national community that has been part of the Serbian Principality since its founding, with an extension to Timočka Krajina in 1833. Many authors are Serbian and others in the Balkans, as well as in a wider space, which during the 19th and 20th centuries wrote about Vlassa and their origins and currents of immigration and refreshment of the indigenous population of eastern Serbia. It is interesting to give one piece of information and to announce that there are 154 Vlach settlements and 48 mixed settlements, mostly mixed with Serbs and Vlassi, between the Danube, Morava, Black and Great Timok. It is very indicative if you look at the results of the World War II list here, which are actually talking about a relationship to national minorities. In order for us today to claim that the national councils of national minorities in the right sense represent the interests of every minority, we must also refer to the genealogy of what are the rights of national minorities, which has been the development of these rights and freedoms from the past to today. Looking at these indicators we have that in 1948, for example, there were 93,440 Vlach, that in 1953 there were 28,000, I will round up so as not to bother the public, but at the same time it was said on the list that the native language in Serbia was damp for 198,000 inhabitants. Only 1,368 people declared themselves Vlasi in 1961. Nearly 15,000, 1971, in 1981, 25,500, 1991, nearly 18,000, in 2002, 40,000, and in 2011 35,330. We see terrible leaps and terrible variations that are, of course, the product of a social climate, probably the impact of a social, political environment, as well as the country's relations with this national minority, or perhaps some other national minorities. During that time when the figures are compared to the number of Romanians, then we start from the 1948 figure in the last century when there were 63,000, and then there's a tendency of decline, so I don't read it, that constant decline goes until 2011, when 29,332 Romanians are listed. But the increase or decrease in Vlach's number is not causally related to what is the decline of Romanians, which suggests that a large number of the Vlach population in Serbia has a sense of its own identity, of its own entity and of its specificities that they do not mean with a sign of equality with what is Romanian identity. This is very important, because when the rights acquired and the development of minority cultural and educational institutions are compared, which is very significantly developed at a high level in Vojvodina, it can be seen and almost that Serbia is an example in terms of what national communities should enjoy and for some other countries, we have that Vlas have reached this current time of empty-handed, in the sense that they could not in such an environment from the past to date to reach their institutions, to reach a degree of development in terms of cultural and educational institutions, etc. By the way, just to say one thing, that after World War II, there was a Vlach letter on which the newspaper "Our Word" was published, or on the Vlach "Vorba Nostra", in Zajecar, but that later that newspaper was banned and, of course, the Vlachs were left without a letter and everything that is culture, memory and culture, customs, or anything in the field of customs, culture, I can't even talk about education, it's based on oral dedication. Why am I talking about this? My word in this sense does not refer to the state in which we lived as a stepmother to the Vlassi. On the contrary, the Vlachs are very strongly integrated into what were the previous states, and even today, Serbia with a deep sense of patriotism and belonging to the state in which it lives from the Serbian Principality in the 19th century, that the Vlachs with Serbs participated in the construction of the system, in building the state and that they have a deep sense of belonging and responsibility to their country and that they live in a very large and amazing agreement with the majority people. But I'm actually talking about this other aspect, because this one situation contributes to the assimilation and quenching of one entity, and every disappearance of one national entity is a great shame for civilization. In this regard, Serbia needs to make an effort in this direction so as to give an example to the Republic Council for National Minorities, which is defined by the Law on National Relations as the other national competent authorities, to come up with one specific policy in the form of an agenda on emancipation, development and survival of the Vlach entity. Another problem relating to some other national minorities, including Vlaška, is to challenge the unimpaired right of each individual to express his nationality and the tendency to judge who is who, that he is a member of one, not another national community, or national minority. I'd say the only and unhinged owner of his national identity is an individual. It can't be our country either, it can't be another country. This is clearly defined in Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, also speaks in a decadently clear manner. This should certainly be taken into account in the sense that, here we are going towards integration, towards European integration. We need to get to the EU, if God says that, as people from the people say by 2020 or somewhere, but we will certainly be in a position to challenge the achievement of such a goal and on this line, especially from those who claim to determine the nationality of some of our national minorities who have the right to their own identity and no one else can, I say, challenge them, whether it's a foreign state or our country. Finally, I want to point out one more problem, and that is the question of the departmentalization of this area and what national councils are. I think the department is wrong as a term and uses and understands. So all that public action is is a policy some, but a policy in a broader sense is if it refers in this case to what moves are, what actions are, what all activities are in terms of the exercise of rights and freedom of national minorities. But if you're referring to the policy of a particular political party, then there are certain finesse that need to be clarified. So, under the bill of law that we have here before us, voters for the electoral lists can be registered political parties of the national minority, which is quite fine, because certainly the party or party with the national omen has in its programme what is the interest of that national minority, which is to protect and improve the rights and freedoms of that national minority. Another promoter can be an association of citizens whose objectives are achieved in the area of protection of the rights of national minorities and that is quite all right. A third type of promoter may be a group of voters listed in a special voter list. Now, this group of voters listed in a special polling list has no, how can I say, political predetermination on paper, but it is certainly clear that individuals from that group of voters can be members of some political party or party that are not with a national omen, but they exist on political soil or on Serbia's political scene as a party without that minority sign. Of course, and here we have as many of these parliamentary parties that have no national omens in terms of what is a national minority. These members of parties and parties can certainly participate as a group of voters in the elections for national councils, as the political framework of the action of one person cannot limit what national interests are, or what is one man's national being. It's simply not causally related. Otherwise, if we were to go in that direction, to ban individuals belonging to other political parties or parties, then we would be limited by minority members that they can only deal with politics within their minority parties, which is a kind of ghettoisation in terms of political freedoms, etc. So we need to understand this question in a very different way, in a very broad way and the way it must essentially be, and within everything that is the modern-day course of civilization, which is a complete one freedom of right, a complete one freedom of action of political definition and national also definition in terms of its identity. So, a very important category in this bill is a special election committee. By reading this bill, as far as I could see it, I think multiple progress has been made and it's multiplely better than the previous one and it will prevent many improvisations in what is the essence of these changes. Of course, there is also the situation for the special voter list to be registered, some say, both representatives and those who are not representatives of national minorities. Let's go find someone who can rule that someone can and someone can't sign up for a voter's list. So, if we were to look at that genetic or biological, according to that genealogy and genealogy, but that just wouldn't be possible. It can't be applied. We could create some pure representatives of some national communities, but I don't know what to do with those who are half, half, or who are fourth, and three-quarters of the other. In that case, I don't know the heir to today's Alexander Karadjordjevic whether he would be a Serb at all. I think you'd be more like something else. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is unhindered that, in accordance with its sense, according to what it feels in its head and what it has under its skin, it is declared on its own for what it is and what its nationality is and, of course, when it enters the special electoral list, it can exercise its rights in accordance with the law. Dear Minister, I think this step is a real step in terms of improving this legal matter, that it will significantly affect better relations in national communities, which is the functioning of national councils. Of course, other issues relating to certain competences and which are related to what the Constitutional Court feels should be changed there, will come to the agenda and will certainly be corrected. The Socialist Party of Serbia will certainly vote in favour of this law, noting that the Socialist Party of Serbia really advocates one real climate in Serbia where all individuals and the collectiveities of national minorities will live and exercise their full freedoms and rights, no matter where they live and in any way, without any prejudication that anyone can enjoy or cannot. Everyone has to enjoy what they said. The Socialist Party of Serbia will vote in voting day for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1172	National MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1173	Article 106. The previous speaker spoke for 26 minutes. That's not the problem. He has the right to use the time of his parliamentary group. However, there is another problem. Of those 26 minutes, he spoke for two, three minutes on the agenda, and the rest of the speech was dedicated to the relations between Romania and Vlah and opened one topic that we could all say something about, but it wasn't on the agenda today. I don't even blame you for your flexibility and understanding towards your coalition partner from the Socialist Party of Serbia, but I ask you to coordinate with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia some principles about holding a session. So, a colleague spoke over 20 minutes past the subject. I didn't say a word for 20 seconds yesterday to make an introduction to the amendment I wanted to explain to the Privatisation Act, and the chairman interrupted me and wouldn't let me do it. Please, when you change behind that chair, say that you let your colleagues talk 20 minutes past the topic and have an understanding of the opposition when they say something a little bit wider than the topic you've been given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1174	I don't think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for flexibility, it doesn't exist, at least not with me, and I'm sure it's with the president of the National Assembly, who's from which assembly club. The criterion applied to all MPs should be unique, and do not doubt that this will be applied. Col. Miletic simply talked about the law and the link between this bill led to problems that one of our national councils of minorities has. I don't see what part it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, or getting out of the agenda theme. Do you want to vote on the day of the vote so the Assembly can plead? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: No. Thank you. The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Nenad Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1175	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the very fact that amendments and additions to the Law on Councils of National Minorities came among the first laws to be passed, saying how serious and responsible this government and this state are approaching the problem of national minorities. We are a multiethnic and multicultural society and, as such, we can take advantage of the rapid and better democratisation of our society on the one hand, but it can also be a problem, a burden and a condition of certain political pressures of conflict if we do not respond adequately to it. The fact of this responsibility and seriousness is also the very exposé of the Prime Minister, who devoted a good part of the exposé to the rights of the national minorities and suggested that we would adopt these amendments and amendments and that by the end of the year we would complete and improve the text of this law, given the position of the Constitutional Court on it. National councils themselves are also designed to be a particular form of autonomy for national minorities, through which they will have their own rights and obligations to provide their national minorities with the best conditions for development both in education, information, culture and in official use of letters and languages. What is the practice of national councils so far? There have been good results, but there have been some mistakes, which is understandable since only a dozen years have been established. These mistakes were within them in terms of some personal, personal conflicts of interest on the one hand, and on the other hand the wish of certain national councils to create parallelity and become part of a parallel state institution. It is normal that this law that we are adopting today will be significantly improved and that I am working on it, which lasted about six months and took part in twenty people, first and foremost by a representative of national minorities, and ensures that this is a better text and that we are still waiting for the improvement of such a text. We want to be a society of equal, equal odds. We want to be a society others will look up to. As such, Serbia has always shown a high degree of sensitivity to other people and the password that we want others to be the way they would like to be to us is exactly the motto we will go with in the future. Serbia must be a factor of stability in these areas, and it will also do a lot of work in relation to its national minorities and the desire to create an equal society on this and certainly do much about it. These changes and additions have a technical part that is very significant, because RIK will surely have the capacity and be a good organiser of the elections. This law came by emergency procedure, in a way because the elections this year are for national councils and in order not to compromise the functioning process itself, we managed to provide them with that time so that they could do it. We are waiting for the next period of alignment, because a certain part of the provision has been declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional. We will have to do everything in the next period, to respect the Constitutional Court's decision on the one hand, but on the other hand, not to endanger even a small degree of rights achieved, when it comes to national minorities. With the desire for Serbia to be a country that others will look up to and respect for the rights of all, to be a society of equal opportunities, I think that in the coming period it will only improve this text of amendments and the addition of laws that we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1176	The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1177	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable fellow MPs, the National Council of National Minorities Act was adopted in 2009 and does not define the clear constitution of the National Council, the mandate period of the Council, the obligation to elect a council after the disband of the National Council before the deadline on which it was elected, the termination of the mandate of the National Council, the duration of the term of office of members of the National Council, the implementation of elections for the National Council, whether they are indirect or direct, whether elections for the National Council are regular or extraordinary and who will conduct those elections. These are just some of the problems that required the amendment and addition of the National Minority Council Act. We are free to say that the national council of a national minority is a representative body of the national minority, through which the national minority exercise its rights in four extremely important areas, namely education, culture, communication and official use of languages and letters. These proposed amendments and amendments to the Law on National Councils provide exactly how many per cent of voters should be included in the special voter list, in order to obtain the right to conduct direct elections for the National Council, which is 40% of the members of the national minority compared to the result of the last census. All those who wish to enlist in a special electoral list do so exclusively on a voluntary basis and that when the election time comes they can select, by their definition, a candidate who will be a member of the National Council. The conditions for the education of a special voter's list are that by requiring 5% of full-time members of the national minority in relation to the result of the latest census, without less than 300 people, they can launch an initiative to launch the education of a special polling list. The paper in this proposal on amendments to the Law on the National Council is that it gives the possibility to organise extraordinary elections for members of the National Council, which was not the case with the previous law. The new provision is also a provision that says the National Council is being established when the mandates of all members of the National Council are confirmed. The current law does not guarantee the professional nature of the bodies that conduct direct elections for members of the National Council. Under this proposal, direct elections for members of the National Council will be held by the RIK and for the implementation of the three-member electoral assembly committee appointed by the RIK. Article 9 of the proposed amendments to the Law on National Minority Councils provides for how many members will have a certain national council and the legislative provision is at least 15 and 35 members, all in accordance with the results of the last census. In the case of a national minority whose number according to the results of the last census is less than 10,000, the National Council numbers 15 members. It is that 244 Albanians were listed in the last census in 2011 in Bujanovac, and in Presevo 416, which is certainly less than 10,000, and the provision of this law is that if we have less than 10,000 persons the right to the education of the National Council of 15 members. The decision of the Albanian national minority in 2011 on the boycott of the census is not good because it does not show the right number of members of the Albanian national minority living in the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities. However, I must say that the good political decision was the Albanian political parties from southern Serbia, when they went to Serbia's parliamentary elections in 2012 and 2014. They thus sent a message that they are in the state system of the Republic of Serbia for the sincere integration of Albanians. Elections for members of national councils in line with the new rules will be held at the end of 2014, so that national minorities will be able to choose their national councils freely, through which they will meet their needs in the fields of education, communication, culture and official use of languages and letters. I call on Members of Parliament to support the proposed amendments and additions to the National Minority Councils Act in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1178	The word has a folk letter from Andrian Anastasov. Let the People's MP, Vladica Dimitrov, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1179	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, comes from Nis, from the Municipality of Palilul, where the last 2011 census established a large number of members of different national minorities and due to inadequate and insufficiently clear legal regulations, there are major problems in the functioning of the national councils of these national minorities. The struggle to preserve the identity, language, letter, cultural and historical heritage of the people living in Serbia is one of the priorities in our country. Proud of the country's ethnic diversity, countless temptations in the past, but also of the preserved faith in a better common future, our policy and policy of work of this government are based on an active commitment to the full affirmation of all, domestic and international standards established, individual and collective rights of national minorities. The Serbia we stand for must belong equally to all its citizens. The current application of the National Minority Councils Act has highlighted a number of problems, and, among other things, the current law does not have a clear and firm logistics structure when we talk about the constitution of national councils, the mandate period of the council, the reasons for the termination of the mandate of the National Council, the obligation of new elections after the early termination of the mandate of the Council and the duration of the term of office of members of the Council. A number of shortcomings and problems in the application of the applicable law, as well as possible abuses in national councils of national minorities, will be resolved by this bill. I will list a few concrete examples of problems in the current law. First of all, there are two ways in which members of the national councils of national minorities are elected - through indirect elections, through the electoral assembly and direct elections. The application of the law is not clear enough and sometimes contradictoryly edits the electoral form in which members of national councils are elected and is not sufficiently precise when they are held and when other elections are held. Also, the applicable law not sufficiently guarantees the professional nature of the bodies conducting direct elections for members of the National Council. Another problem is to register national minority councils. It is not different from the procedure for enrolling the first national council in the register from the subsequent amendments of the already existing national council. Also, in the applicable law against acts adopted by the ministry in the management of the register, legal protection as it is in the new bill was not allowed. This bill will remove a number of shortcomings and will lead to a consistent and clear implementation of the concept of national councils as instruments of cultural autonomy of national minorities. In order to have a country to which all the nations living in it will be proud, we must create a state that will equally respect all its citizens and take care of equal care of the national and religious rights of all. Only by such an ethnic diversity of Serbia, which we are so proud of, but which is still insufficient to recognise the exploited social potential, can be fully used to create and strengthen economic, cultural and political ties with the countries of the region and Europe. Such a bill is one important step in improving the work of national councils of national minorities. Given that the current law, and this bill, established the obligation to conduct the elections in 2014, I call on MPs to vote in favour of this bill, in order to allow for the smooth implementation of elections for members of the national council of national minorities and the establishment of national councils of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1180	The People's MP Vladica Dimitrov has the word, and let the MP Mujo Mukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1181	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, since today the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the National Minority Councils Act is on the agenda, I will paraphrasise the words of the prime minister from the exposé when he spoke about national minorities and so begin this, I hope, short, exposure. In fact, Serbia is a rich country when it comes to members of national minorities who live and exercise the rights guaranteed by law. It is precisely the national minorities that are the kind of bridge between Serbia and the countries of origin that are members of the national minorities, and precisely in the co-existence and existence of these differences, often the wisest and most correct values of society in the whole. The Serbian Progressive Party, along with its coalition partners, has firmly stopped to solve the problems of national minorities and to ensure that their rights are preserved and improved. We have heard from previous speakers that national minorities began to organise in 2002 and 2003, based on the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, but due to lack of legislation, only in 2009 was the adoption of the National Minority Councils of National Minorities precisely defined the jurisdiction of national councils in the fields of culture, education, communication, official use of language and letters, the way in which members of national councils were elected, the financial resources needed for their work and other issues that were important for the work of national councils. But after a few years of application in the practice of this law, certain shortcomings have been observed, i.e. issues that have remained unsaid. It is these amendments and additions to the Law on National Councils which are less essential and more technical, but for people who know the problems with which national councils have met, these changes are a logical trail and an improvement of the Law on National Councils and precisely define the issues that have remained unsaid. In fact, the law itself did not have a strong logical structure, especially in the election process of members of the national council during the term of office, a very important obligation for new elections after the end of the term of office, so that the law did not essentially have its logical beginning and end. Also, it is not clearly defined form of choice, and these changes and additions are precisely defined when the elections will be direct and when they will be indirect through the electoral assembly. In addition, these amendments provide for the High Authority for the conduct of the elections to be RIK, which is given to the importance of national councils, i.e. the selection of national councils and guarantees the regularity and legality of the electoral process itself. I am a member of the Bulgarian national minority, and I will use only a few words, when I have already reported under this law, to say that because of the indetermination of certain provisions in the law, there was a problem and the National Council of the Bulgarian National Minority. In 2012 and several months 2013, the National Council of the Bulgarian National Minority did not simply function, because one member, or member, decided to boycott the work of the National Council. As the number of opposition members and positions was then unresolved, so-called. Pat position and we had one situation that the National Council had not sat down for a year and a few days at all, had not made any decisions or given opinions in the field of its jurisdiction. I will remind the MPs, although I think a good part of them doesn't know that the opinions of the National Council in the field of their competence for the native local self-government are binding, let's say, in the selection of the directors of these institutions, from the fields of education, culture, information, so that local self-governments were left without these binding opinions, and that life would not stop, there was winding up in a variety of ways that, I fear, were at the time in conflict with certain laws. Also, Bulgaria's national minority had one foot in that period to lose its only printed note, the "Brothership" list. Although I do not claim that the National Council was the main culprit for stopping the "Brothership" list. Of course, it means they're the main culprit of funding that wasn't enough. The fact that, as the founder of this list, he did nothing to repair the situation in some way. He couldn't have replaced the director of the former who, of course, was well-deserved and responsible for everything that happened to "Brothership". He could not choose a new director and the problem of the national minority is still present today. I will try the next period to get to know exactly the competent ministry and all of you with this problem that we will, of course, try to solve together, because not only is it important because of a certain number of workers who have practically lost their jobs, but what the national minority itself has left, I mention again, without the only printed message, and that is the "Brothership" list: In the end I will only say these changes and additions will not make the National Minority Councils Act ideal, nor will it become perfect. Previous speakers, particularly authorised representatives, have made it clear that there will be new additions and amendments to the Law on National Councils, but this is a short step closer to trying to make the law better. As the Law on National Minorities Councils for members of national minorities is guaranteed by the Constitution of guaranteed rights, please also members of the opposition, regardless of certain differences, to vote in favour of this law, and we will continue in some joint work to try to further improve and improve it. This is of course in the general interest and interest of members of national minorities but also in the interest of the majority population living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1182	The word has a National MP, Mujo Mukovic, and let Milanka Jefovic-Vukojčić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister and other representatives of the Government, we have before us the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. I would say a very important law for a good part of Serbian citizens who do not belong to the majority people, i.e. they belong to certain national communities or strictly legally speaking to national minorities. Why do I say that? To be a member of the national minority, there is also a country of origin where the nation is majority. In practice, we also have some national communities that do not have their own countries, so parallel to this term – the national minority is very often using the term – the national community. I'd say he's more picturesquely defining individual ethnic groups that don't have their own country of origin. However, this is a very important law for the exercise of the rights of individual, especially collective rights of national minorities in this country, and it is very important in four areas to preserve and improve the national identity of each national community. So, in the fields of culture, education, field of communication, as it stands in the law, or information and in the field of official use of language and letter. National councils gain importance after the adoption of the now applicable Constitution where the state of Serbia is defined as the national state of the Serbian people and other citizens living in it. I can say that at the time of the notorious SPS, whose MPs sat here on my right, we had a state of all citizens and then national councils didn't have this importance. However, it is very important that in these circumstances we also promote the importance and work of national councils because they represent a certain vision, so to speak, the cultural autonomy of every national minority and without national councils would be unimaginable in order for a certain national minority, i.e. the national community in these four mentioned areas to achieve and improve its rights. I understand that this discussion is at an end and that the impatience of the MPs is growing, but I really want to say that it is important that national councils are a constitutional category. In Article 75(3), point (a) is replaced by the following: The constitution mentions the possibility that national minorities can form national councils and that is a very important fact. As some previous speakers have said, there is already a relatively long practice of the existence of certain national councils. Since 2002, since the adoption of then of the Federal Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities, it has led to better politically organised national minorities already forming their national councils. Later, after the adoption of the law at Serbia's level in 2009, 19 national minorities took advantage of this right and there are already 19 national councils of national minorities in our country. I would like to say and praise this proposal which the working group worked during the previous government and where the representatives of national councils participated, that it has indeed come seriously and I think that this dominant good influence has been achieved by the SVM as the most numerous minority parliamentary group in this Parliament and the party that has had experience in the work and in this matter for many years. This bill also sets out all the irregularities we had in the previous law, starting with a special electoral list, from the very way of choosing national councils, predicting the possibility of early elections, which we did not have in the current law. There have been major problems in organising these elections so far, and you have all witnessed that in this discussion about this law, as a consequence of this, we have also had the interactions within the Bosniak national community of two policy options that have been burdening our political disputes for many years, so to speak, the overall relations in the Bosniak National Community and even in the Sandzak municipalities, where Bosniaks live in the largest number, which only shows that there have been many problems with the election and functioning of the Bosniak National Council in this country. In fact, for many years, we have had the opportunity to perform this function so-called. Bosniak national council in the technical mandate. In the previous elections, it was not possible to establish itself although the elections were held, although they were, I say, the real elections were by no means different from the very important local or parliamentary elections, because for well-organised national communities, I say, politically organised such as the most numerous national communities in this country of Hungary, Bosniak, Albanian, etc., these elections are very important and they are practically real elections and are no different from the elections for the MPs of the country as we have in the territory of the whole country. That is why I would like to say that as a member of the Bosniak People's Party and a member of the SNS parliamentary club, I would not participate in this bi-memory political option, because today is not on the agenda of the Bosniak National Council, but I would take the opportunity to congratulate all Bosniaks on 11 May, the day of the Bosniak national flag, with a small delay, but I thought yesterday, but nevertheless, 11 was the day before yesterday. For me, there is also a special symbolism that we are discussing today a very important law which is today the visit of Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic BiH, and that as a member of the Bosniak National Community and the president of the Bosniak People's Party, of course, I am interested in making better relations between BiH and Serbia, and that I would like to welcome that decision that the first visit of our prime minister, Prime Minister of Serbia, will be today and visit Sarajevo, a visit to BiH, and I think it will contribute to the improvement of relations in the region and the overall improvement of relations between the Bosniak and Serbs as two important peoples in this part of Europe. So, what is important to us as members of the Bosniak national community.? As the ruling majority MP and as a member of the congregation's majority, I am not seeking any privileged position when it comes to elections for national councils. It is important for us that the Serbian government, through law and acting in practice, ensure a level playing field for all competitors in these elections. This election is, again, very important. If the Serbian government favours a political option, and in the past we have had this example, let's say by all the republican functions in Sandzak municipalities only one political option, it directly affects all elections and so does elections for national councils. We are looking, because this is very sensitive, this is about national-mixed environments, that the republican functions, and we are sure that this government will do it all at once, but I hope that we will go in this direction, that the republican functions are balanced and when it comes to national composition, because we also have certain objections, and that they are also balanced by political membership, that not one political option can be privileged and protected, and then in such conditions they happen to be from these political options, and they get this and that number of votes, they are privileged. We ask that we all have equal chances when it comes to elections for national councils and when it comes to all other choices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1184	Mr. Beard on what basis? I'm sorry, Mr. Obradovic, if it's mentioned in the SPS, I didn't notice it was mentioned in some bad context.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1185	If the word "infamous SPS" is said, I don't think that word should be interpreted. (President: This could be a breach of the Rules of Procedure). All right. Thank you, Chairman. As an authorised representative of the SPS, I am absolutely ready to discuss the content of minority policy during the 1990s, everything that has happened and the position of members of national minorities at that time. I am at my disposal not only to my colleagues Mukovic, but also to the others. The truth works and the fact works and today's debate is simply what I want to know is that the national councils of the national minorities are categories based on the 2002 law, at the time of the existence of the SRJ, that the constitutional category became in 2006, and the law was passed in 2009, just so the order is known.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1186	Mr. Obradovic, my colleague Mukovic's discussion and that expression I considered to be one irony, which is why I didn't think he had a basis for replication, because he immediately added that the Constitution from that time on was fairer to members of national minorities because he evened out members of national minorities with other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think there's any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I'd like to ask you if you'd like to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. All right, thanks. The word has a National MP, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, and let MP Marko Atlagic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1187	The Honored Chairman, a respected minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, on 27 April 2014 at the exposé of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, stressed that one of the government's first tasks would be to refer the National Assembly to the proposal for a bill on amendments and additions to the National Minority Councils Act. To be said, it's done. Today, on the second day of debate in the National Assembly, it is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. It is important to point out that the national councils in the Constitution were introduced in 2002, that the constitutional category became in 2006 and that the 2009 Law on the Selection of National Councils of National Minorities was adopted. However, in the implementation of this law, many inconsistencies, inconsistencies, sleekness, confusion, and since the law could not be applied in an adequate way in practice, the creation of a special working group involving members of national minorities in order to make changes to the law became adequate and adequately served what was intended. What exactly is the basic purpose of this law? The basic purpose of this law is that national councils are defined as instruments of cultural autonomy of national minorities. What are the three basic objectives achieved by this law, and why is this law not only technical, but essential? The first reason is because this law achieves legal certainty. So, a legal framework is being introduced and a legal basis is being established for establishing national councils, for calling elections of regular and extraordinary, for disbanding national councils, for enrolling in a special electoral list, for keeping records of a special census of national minorities. What is the other important goal achieved by this bill? It's administrative legal protection. It is possible to initiate an administrative dispute with the administrative court to take all decisions, i.e. decisions taken by the ministry in the light of the solutions. The initiation of the administrative dispute, as well as the time under which the administrative court is required to decide, is precisely determined by this law and is time-limited. What is the third goal to be achieved by this law? This is a very important objective, and it is the legality of implementing the election procedure for national councils. The legality of the election process is achieved by setting out that the Republic Election Commission is conducting direct elections, and the electoral elections are determined by the Republic Election Commission to form a three-member committee to oversee and conduct the electoral elections. What is the special importance and what is a special newspaper in these amendments and additions to the law? It's the exact arrangement when the national council's jurisdiction begins. This law accurately states that the responsibilities of the National Council begin by establishing the mandate of the members of the National Council. Since then, the powers relating to the election of the President of the National Council, the selection of working bodies, the selection of committees and the selection of the Executive Board shall begin. This term of office of the National Council takes four years, but in the event of the disbanding of the National Council so far, it has been a practice for the temporary management body to take over, for example, some national councils to expire after six months, and for the next three-and-a-half years the role of the exercise, i.e. the mandate, was assumed by the provisional managing authority. In order to resolve this legal gap, the bill obliges the minister to call the elections and implement them within 45 days of the day of the vote. Of course, the so-elected National Council is working until the end of the term of office of the previously disbanded National Council. There is also a newspaper here, and it refers to the fact that, if the national council has remained less than one year until the end of the term of office, the provisional managing authority shall continue to carry out its duties until the end of the national council's term of office. What is also a newspaper, these are the powers of the executive board appointed by the National Council, i.e. the president of the National Council. It is important that the Executive Board of the National Council may be entrusted with certain competences, especially those of competences which when national councils are actually unable to provide their regular sessions because of the speed and shortness of time. However, those decisions of the Executive Board shall be confirmed at the first next session of the National Council. They can, of course, be confirmed, and if they are not confirmed, the Executive Board is disbanded, but his decision remains in force. What is also characteristic is that direct elections can only be called if, 24 hours before the vote is called, 40% of full-age members are listed in the national minority's special electoral list, compared to the total number of residents. Of course, it is very important to note here that the census, or statistical data relating to the census, is a very important parameter in the formation of national councils. In the census, each of us, and on the principle of volunteering, declares or does not declare his or her nationality, as well as the signing of requests for access to the special voter list of national minorities based on the principle of volunteering, as full-time members of the national minority voluntarily sign a declaration of their accession or of their resignation from the special electoral list. It is also important to note that this special electoral list of national minorities is defined as the official record of the ministry, that it is located in the ministry as an electronic database, and that, of course, certain jobs are entrusted to the municipal and city authorities of the administration. What is also important for the adoption of laws is the elections that follow this year, as the last elections for national councils were held on 6 June 2010, and certainly this year is the year when it is necessary to hold re-elections for national councils. In the end, I would return to the exposés of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, in which he stated that Serbia as a democratic state deeply respects and respects the multiethnicity of its community and, of course, considers it a priority in its development. For this reason, we have to work continuously and continuously to create conditions so that national communities can automatically exercise their rights in the fields of culture, intelligence, education, official use of language and letter. All of these are reasons why the Serbian Progressive Party will support him in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1188	The People's MP Marko Atlagic has the word, and let the MP Slobodan Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1189	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not only talking about the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to national minorities but also about the relationship of this Assembly to national minorities. In fact, this also speaks of how much this country really holds to the protection of minorities in the Republic of Serbia, and the very system of protection of minorities in the Republic of Serbia has been developed since the time of the SFRY, in which other Socialist countries have looked at the issue of national minorities. While the countries of the eastern bloc had not specifically treated the national issue or developed a system for the protection of ethnic groups, the SFRY provided national rights through different mechanisms. I must point out that the 1974 Constitution defined the position of national minorities and their collective rights. The Yugoslav institution, as you know, is the key, despite the single-party system, has allowed minorities to be represented in political life. Through the key, all national groups in the SFRY were proportionally represented at all levels of government. The highest degree of participation was, as today, on the local level. The collapse of the Federal Federal Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has led to new minorities emerging in Serbia's territory, which were constituent nations within the previous state. Following Friday's changes, Serbia's authorities took the necessary steps to join the UN, the Council of Europe and other international organisations as well as commitments to international standards for the protection of national minorities. This means that the state of Serbia has committed itself to developing democratic institutions and procedures and brings specific measures aimed at protecting national minorities and thus implements a multicultural policy recommended through OSCE documents, the Council of Europe and the European Commission, etc. Among the most important documents Serbia is signatories are the Framework Convention for the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, which define the minimum protection guaranteed by minority groups. Today, the position of minorities in Serbia is regulated, first of all, by the Constitution adopted in 2006 and especially by the laws among which we set out the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, then the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System and the Law on Local Self-Government. I must point out, besides that, the state of Serbia has bilateral contracts to protect minorities with Croatia, Macedonia, Hungary and Romania. The state of Serbia is an ethnically very heterogeneous country. I must point out that officially 20 ethnic groups have national minority status. According to a 2002 census in Serbia without Kosovo, 13.47 people belong to national minorities live. Of course, the most numerous are Hungarians, Bosniaks and Roma. There are more Yugoslavs, Montenegrins, Croats, Albanians and Slovaks in a significant number, while some national minorities, such as. The Czechs in Russia only have a few thousand members. National minorities in Serbia are mostly fairly territorialally heterogeneous, except when it comes to Roma, who live in the whole territory of Serbia. Let me say that only two national groups prevail in Vojvodina – Hungary 14.28% and Serbia 65.5%. The Hungarians have an absolute majority in six municipalities in the north of Vojvodina, but they live still in the 25 municipalities of Vojvodina. There are a total of 169 municipalities in Serbia with an average population of about 50,000, 68 of which are multiethnic. There are 41 multiethnic municipalities in Vojvodina and 27 in Serbia. The 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the basis for developing a policy for the protection of national minorities and is the one that regulates their position in the broadest sense and protects their identity and integrity. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2002 Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities is a fundamental law governing the status of national minorities. The law has adopted standards established in this area through documents of the Council of Europe, the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages. The collective rights of national minorities in Serbia are realised through cultural autonomy. The essence of cultural autonomy is the right to the official use of language, education and culture and information. I must say that the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters provides that local self-government units that traditionally accommodate members of the national minority, their language and letter are required in official use if they have more than 15% of the population in the general population. Dear ladies and gentlemen, also under the Law on the ID card since 2006, the form of the ID card has been scheduled to be printed in the language and letter of the national minority. Of the 45 Vojvodina municipalities in only seven, the Serbian language is the only one in official use: Indjija, Irig, Opovo, Panchevo, Pećinci, Ruma and Sremski Karlovci. Currently, the Hungarian language and letter are in official use in 27 municipalities – Slovak in 10, Romanian in eight, Russian in five, Croatian in one municipality, and Czech in the territory of the municipality of Bela Church. We can freely say that in Serbia there is a developed high system of exercising the right to the official use of language. Dear ladies and gentlemen, classes take place in six languages in Vojvodina elementary schools – in Serbian, Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian, Russian and Croatian. Of which in Hungarian at 78 elementary schools, in Slovak and Romanian in 18, in Russian in three, in Croatian in five primary schools. Finally, allow the ladies and gentlemen to say that Miroslav Lajcak, head of diplomacy in Slovakia, visited Novi Sad last week, where he said I quote -- that Vojvodina can serve as a model for Europe as a whole, when it comes to national minorities issues, and that Serbia is one of the leaders in Europe in terms of national minorities. It's a finished quote. Thank him for this grade. Serbia will continue to improve international relations based on the most advanced international relations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is like a meadow, the more different flowers in the meadow, the better and richer the meadow. Every flower in the meadow is a national minority. Serbia is full of different flowers, so the good behind is rich. Since this law on national minority councils is an instrument for achieving the cultural autonomy of national minorities, I invite you ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament to all, and especially you from the opposition to vote for this law and send a strong and strong message to the world and the city of Orbena Turba as we treat our national minorities in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1190	Thank you, fellow Atlagic. The word has the People's MP Slobodan Peric, let MP Milinko Zivkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1191	The Honorable Chairman, respected Deputy Prime Minister with fellow fellow Members, here I represent the Vlach national minority and as their representative thanks to the understanding of SNS and Mr Vukic for the second time, I am in the second term of office of the Republic Assembly. The hairs are an unbreakable part of Serbian history that has been built for centuries and after Serbs on the altar of the country left the most victims. There are over 200,000 of them, and they mostly live in eastern Serbia. By observing the new Law on the Selection of National Councils of Minorities, it is much better than the last one, but there are places where more can be upgraded. One of the problems is that all national minorities that have a queen country can count on certain funds from those countries, and national minorities that Serbia considers to be a queen do not have those privileges and are then damaged in order to build their cultural institutions and get closer to these other minorities. Those minorities are Vlachs, rebels and others. Those national councils, those minority organisations registered in Vojvodina receive money from both Vojvodina and Serbia, and those national councils and those minority institutions registered in Serbia receive only from Serbia, and part of the funds given by the Vojvodina does not belong to them. I think that state was supposed to be a little more caring. That is why the gap between minorities in the construction of cultural institutions is increasingly deepening, rather than shrinking. Also, the state must be more concerned about building infrastructure and bringing investors to areas where national minorities live. It is incomprehensible that no highway passes through eastern Serbia, although there has long been a project called "MSK-East", which goes from the fire loop to Zaječar and continues to the Black Sea. With the construction of this vessel, Eastern Serbia would be reborn and investment would come into it. If Europe has recognised this project, I think it is time for the state of Serbia to do the same. A group of Vlach NGOs also sent a document to all institutions in Serbia on 28 October 2013 called "The Agenda for Survival, Emancipation and Development of the Vlach Ethnic Entity in Serbia". So far, we've got no answer to that. It is an honor to me, Madam Vice President of the Government, which I can present to you and ask you to find time for a delegation of representatives of the Vlach National Minority to be held for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1192	The word has the People's MP Milinko Zivkovic, and let MP Zoran Zivkovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1193	Dear Vice-President, honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am a member of the majority people, but I will be pleased to take part today in the debate on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements on the National Councils of National Minorities. I'm doing this out of knowledge and compassion for a national minority who is cosmopolitan by its ethnic vote. Knowing their history, their ethnogenesis, knowing that they are a hardworking and hardworking people, a people who know how to guard the border and people who love their country, it is a pleasure to begin with this government, in this Parliament, and with this first statement in the National Assembly on the Law on National Minorities, that is, on national councils. I hope that, with this law speeded up in the EU, we will also see that all those standards that are important and which are European values are built into our legal existing norms and simply give the same chances to all people and citizens of our country. The hairs were never a factor of instability. They're a state-of-the-art people. Someone will say - The hairs are known for their magic, and I'd say the only magic is that they've managed to survive to this day and have managed to resist many problems and survive to this day. Unlike many other national communities, Serbia is recognised as their country of origin. The hairs with the national council they had so far haven't gotten much, because the National Council that was formed was missing, and in fact the law allowed it. From the point of view of what was the problems of this law in the Vlach community, I will try to shed light on it, and also to point to those important things that, practically, the new law corrects it. Article 75 provides for the exercise of the right to self-government, culture, education, communication, official use of languages and letters, so that members of national minorities could choose national councils in accordance with the law. However, elections for national councils, mandates, council bodies, competencies, the conduct of special electoral lists in the good part were a failure of the previous law. Four essential things I'd like to point out were the problems of the law itself. First, there were doubts about the regularity of enrollment in the special voter list. There was a term, which is the Temporal Vlasi, which was the Vlasi parties. These were people who, if necessary, were elected by party powers, typed without notice that they could be members of the council and the Vlachs of the population to vote. The moment everything was voted or stopped being members of the Vlach population, etc. It's one of the problems that the new law corrects. It was even a party task at some point. That was the Majorization of Vlach with the non-performing Corps. What's very important, what you should say here is that the parties in power used minorities as tools to implement their goals in those parts. This is best seen from the data the colleague was talking about, that from 1953 to 1961 the almost lost identity of Vlach in this area, although large settlements of three to five thousand existed and exist today, such as Zlot, such as Neresnica, such as Jabukovac, such as Laznica. This law also had shortcomings because the influences on the part of the people of the national community were much mixed up and used by people of the Vlach national community not to do to God what was best for them and to forget about some of the Vlach words, as if they were Romanian, and in fact they extinguished the Vlach identity. In the end, the greatest cynicism was that the law allowed the people of the NGOs to form even national councils through national minorities as if they were Vlachs, and in fact they were not the Vlachs of the national minority. It was, say, a party none of the answers offered. They practically mocked minorities in Serbia. As pathetic as it is, the truth can't be broken into pathetics. The bottom line is that this new law that we have a lot of things right, probably not until the end, but it will be improvements anyway. This means for election committees, for polling stations, for mandates, re-election is now being included by the Election Commission and ultimately only the constitution of the leader, i.e. calling and forming, helps to establish the minister himself. In the end, I would just like to say that in this part of eastern Serbia, a little bit should be taken into account, along with the Orthodox Church, with the Romanian and Serbian Orthodox Church, that under the law and common consent, the temples, together to perform with Romanians, because as things now stand, Vlas are practically collateral damage. In the voting day, the SNS will vote for this law and simply, we will need to still talk about many things to improve in these people in eastern Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1194	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1195	Thank you. The draft law amending and supplementing the National Minority Councils Act is proof of the Continuance of this Government, which proposes this text of the law, although the last 15 days have seen attempts by both prime ministers and ministers from the new government say it is a completely new government that has nothing to do with the previous government, this law is absolute proof that it is not true. That's good, because we got a good bill of law and the New Party MPs will vote for this bill, because it solves a lot of problems contained in the old law, especially in the part concerning elections for national councils. I am pleased that there is unity in the ranks of government, as my predecessor said, who on behalf of the two parliamentary groups said he would vote for this law, so we do not spoil that idyll, here, and we will vote for this law. That's good. What is bad is that this government of continuity did not arrive to amend the law in the part pointed out by the Constitutional Court on 16 January this year, when it assessed an unconstitutional large number of members who are unconstitutional and who are dealing with the competences of national councils. I am sure that the vice-president and the minister will, within a very short time, come to amend that part of the law, in order to bring it into line with the Constitution. You saw yesterday and concluded that New Party MPs are very concerned that parliament does not slip into unconstitution, that it does not do its wrong decisions to make this high house do something that has been an honor to all of us. So this is how we're going to behave. All that is bad for Serbia, which is unconstitutional, which does not meet the principles and standards of the 21st century will be subject to our criticism, and everything that is good bill proposals will be supported as this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1196	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, as well as my esteemed colleague by profession, will support this law. I agree with my esteemed colleague by profession that we will soon receive the most likely yet another amendment and addition of the Law on National Minority Councils, since, as far as I know, the Constitutional Court has taken a stand on ownership of the media. I think that by the end of the year we will be discussing the amendments and additions to this law again, but since the elections and deadlines for elections for national councils of national minorities are closer, I think this law was necessary and it is good that we adopt it in time, so that elections for very sensitive areas can be implemented. At first, I will say that freedoms and rights in every country are measured by the freedoms and rights of minorities, not by the freedoms and rights of the majority. In Serbia, if I'm not mistaken, there are 19 councils of national minorities. I think that Serbia is ahead of Serbia in the countries of the former Yugoslavia and that is good for Serbia, because Serbia is a rather destructive, unfinished country, the country most often accused of ethnic cleansing and a variety of pressures and activities, and with that in connection with 19 national councils, it also says that Serbia is taking care of national minorities and the rights of national minorities. Regardless of the pressures and the accusations of ethnic cleansing, Serbia has not significantly changed the composition of the population from 1991 to today. The number of Serbs has dropped by more than 500,000 since 1991 until today. It would have fallen even more if the population had not been inflows due to refugees, exiled and displaced persons from the republic of the former SFRY, but also the number of individual members of the national minorities has fallen as well. With that in mind, I think that the greatest enemies and national minorities and the majority people at this point are not each other, but the greatest enemy, especially in Vojvodina, is the white plague. I dare say that the white plague is the most dangerous means of ethnic cleansing currently in Vojvodina, as well as in many parts of Serbia. Also, the economic crisis is causing the relocation of not only the majority population, but also the populations of certain minority groups, which are also referred as the majority people to the belly after bread. What they asked me, "national minority of Yugoslav", they claim there are 23,000 and their status has not been defined. So I ask the Minister to take their objection into account, given that we will most likely deal with this law in due course again. What I would say, as I have noticed in the discussions, is that on the issue of the National Council, it is only the party's concerns of members of the national minorities' parties whom I, as a member of the majority people and as president of the People's Peasants' Party, would have left them to deal with the departisation of their national councils. This is important because of them, and not because of the majority people, to remove in one way or another even if the leaders of their political parties and the advice of national minorities, because it will be good for their national minorities, for peace in their own home, and when there is peace in their house, then most likely there will be peace in the common house. The change of laws affects the elections for national councils. Nor is this way of choice perfect, but I do not agree with one party that has claimed that so far the choices have been more democratic than the one that is now envisaged, because I still think that in RIK sits, in one way or another, thanks to representation in the Assembly, a dozen parties representing the attitudes of national minorities in ways that have passed on the minority list or on the list that were majority, but they were represented as minority groups in such election lists. I think there are about a dozen national minorities who are represented in parliament in one way or another, and are therefore neglected in the RIK that maintains the proportions of the National Assembly. I think it is still a better way to vote and control elections for national councils of national minorities than so far. I'm also saying that given the economic situation in the country, no one is comfortable. I think a well-built factory, that a well-planted orchard or vineyard, that a well-planted field is worth more to every national minority and to the majority people than some nationalist leaders of various parties do. Therefore, I think it is convenient for national minority advice, I repeat, to be their internal affairs, to be defined for the department and to propose themselves some regulation in which to regulate the influence of the policies of the parties of national minorities, and, if necessary, other parties to take place in national councils. I hope that my advice will be taken well on purpose, because I would not like national advice and one good thing to turn into self-aggregation, self-insulation, self-getting of any national minority. We do not need, as a majority people, as opposed to others, to chase Serbia with a hammer, to ride each other on our necks, to wave a hammer and break tablets with multilingual inscriptions. We don't need to look worse than ourselves, to simulate the freedoms of others, because freedom does not simulate. Simulated freedom is just a vision of freedom. You can't respect your people if you don't respect the other one. With that in mind, I mean, as a member of the majority people, that no one in this country should, and some times are very problematic, to be ashamed of being not a Serb, but I also want to say that no one should expect that someone should be ashamed of the fact that he is a Serb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1198	The People's Messenger Riza Halimi has the word, and let the People's Messenger Biljana Hasanovic Koraq be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1199	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the draft law amending and supplementing the National Minority Councils Act improves the provisions governing the selection of national councils, as well as certain organisational issues that will be improved by the proposed amendments. It would have been far better if we had the opportunity to fully discuss and amend the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, not only because of the Constitutional Court's decision that challenged the very important competences of national councils, but also because of the practice so far which points to very serious problems in achieving the laws of the envisaged competences of national councils. In order for national councils to fully achieve the intended function of cultural autonomy, i.e. the function of the self-government of national minorities, it is necessary to complete the basic Act on National Minority Councils, but it is necessary to supplement the basic laws in the fields of education, culture, information and official use of languages and letters. Unfortunately, in the current practice of the National Council of the Albanian National Minority, very serious problems arise, both in relation to local self-government and to the ministries, especially with the Ministry of Education, whose inspection is infrequently silent, i.e. by not taking appropriate measures, permitting illegal decisions by local parliaments that impose illegal changes in school committees. In the Presevo municipality, four years ago, local self-government did not accept, as a trusted job, enrolment in a special polling list, so this job had to be done directly in the competent ministry. It is very important by law to specify the status of national councils, and above all it is necessary to specify relations with the republican authorities of local self-government. The National Council of the Albanian National Minority since last year has been having serious problems in funding due to the lack of participation of the vast majority of Albanians in the 2011 census. In addition to the fact that in a very complex problem, which was created in connection with the 2011 census, the National Council of Albanians was not involved at all. The government's National Minorities Office has decided to punish the National Council drastically, by financing only 5,800 Albanians instead of 61,647 Albanians, how much the Republic Statistics Institute has shown as part of published incomplete data. This number of 5,800 Albanians does not correspond closely to the real situation on the ground, which is also seen on the basis of the election results, as there were over 24,000 voters for our voter list. This is shown by local elections held two years ago, as well as a number of others: the number of students, the number of unemployed people registered in the institutions. It's very easy to prove. Now it appears about this problem in the bill itself, because in Article 7, you have a number of members of the national councils being regulated, and in which the basic criterion is the number of inhabitants, in fact the number of members of the national minority, so it would turn out that Albanians should have a minimum of 15 members of the national council instead of 29 so far. Someone else mentioned, another debater, whether the number of Albanian minorities should have advice. I think there's a chance this problem could be solved, because that practice existed in the 1990s. At that time, the Republic Statistics Office operated on data that has been constantly updated, constantly leading to vital events in the country, and accurate knowledge of the number of members of a national minority. I believe that with the financing practice, in my opinion, this discriminatory approach should be removed, and in no case should this affect this bill, the formulations of a new law that will be voted here, because then we would have even bigger and more complex problems in practice. I hope that, with all these additions, this law will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1200	The People's Messenger Biljana Hasanovic Korac has the word, and let the People's Messenger Gordana Komic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister and representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, their discussion on the draft law, which is on the agenda, from what we all know well, which is the fact that in the territory of Serbia there live members of different nations and religions, who speak different languages and have a different culture. It is these differences, if we approach them in the right way, and if we understand them, that is a fortune for us. The basis for respect and care for these differences is prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, in Article 75, says: "In order to exercise the right to self-government in culture, education, notification and official use of language and letter, members of national minorities can choose their national councils in accordance with the law." On this basis, the National Minority Councils Act 2009 was also adopted, which was then assessed by the highest marks on the protection of national minorities and their freedoms and rights. I must remind myself that at that time, the President of the Republic of Serbia was Mr Boris Tadic, who advocated and implemented a policy to protect the rights of national minorities and a peaceful policy, which has also made a reciprocal contribution to the better position of the national minorities of the Serb people in countries in the region and beyond. During the application of the Law, some questions were shown to be clarified and more detailed, and some issues not regulated should be regulated. It is normal for laws to be changed in accordance with changes in society, with experience in law enforcement and with emerging needs. When we talk about the lives of national minorities in Serbia, I also need to give a positive example. On the territory of the Vršac municipality there is a settlement in Gudurica, known for its vineyarding and wine production, in the basements that export good wine to countries around the world. They also have a cultural event, which is of national importance and is called the Road of Wine. But Gudurica is not only known for it. According to the latest census, Gudurica lives in 1,267 inhabitants, of whom 1,020 are full-age, and these residents are members of 17 nations and they have achieved good co-operation and good co-operation and can also make economic progress. They also have their own event – Golden Guduric fall, where members of national minorities and their guests from home countries show their cultural wealth and exchange knowledge and experience. But unfortunately for us, it's not like this in every environment. There is no level of understanding and cooperation and respect everywhere. There's even an environment where there's no minimum tolerance. That is why we need a quality and good law that fundamentally regulates the issues of positions, rights and freedoms and ways of organising national minorities, in order to prevent conflicts. These amendments and additions to the Law are not only technical, there are also essential changes, but all relate to procedural issues of election and registration of national councils of national minorities. For example, Article 3. The proposal says national councils are registered in the register on the basis of an application for registration, in a register run by a ministry in which the affairs of human and minority rights are within the scope of the current formulation, which is directed by the ministry under the name of the ministry responsible for the affairs of human and minority rights. This amendment should be characterised as positive, because it is better to have an undefined formulation, because experience has shown that after each election, the ruling majority that is formed has the need to reorganise the ministries, both by number and by jurisdiction and by name, and that there is no confusion, I estimate that the formulation that is now proposed is good, but it is more technical. As far as registration deadlines are concerned, they're a little confusing. Anyone who doesn't do registration can be harder to handle. For example, it is said that the National Council is registered in the register on the basis of a application submitted by the National Council president to the ministry within five days of the first meeting of the National Council selecting the president of the National Council and, among other things, saying that two copies of the statutes should be submitted with that application. Article 6 which regulates the statute, its content and its conduct states: "The first call of the National Council is required to adopt the statute of the National Council within 10 days of the constitution. “ A man who is not involved in registration is a little confusing, for one is five days, another 10 days, it takes a lot of knowledge of the technique to understand the procedure and steps that should be carried out to prepare for the application. I suggest that the ministry draw up a guideline for national councils that are first established to facilitate this registration process. What can be put as the biggest regret is that this law, which is essential, is passed by emergency procedure, which was delivered to us a few days before the session was held and the session was scheduled today for tomorrow, so we did not have time to study the text of the law in detail and to see whether it essentially touched the rights of the national minorities already acquired. It is true that a public debate was held a few months ago, but as far as I am aware, no objections and suggestions were adopted during that public debate. These days, I consulted with representatives of Romania's nationalities who participated in a public debate, with representatives of the National Council of Romania, and I came up with the following information, so I now make them clear here. First, no suggestion has been adopted to define the status of national councils, except that they acquire the legal personality on the day of their registration. As a result, national councils are often seen as an association of citizens, and the registration process itself is very similar, and it certainly reduces their importance and importance, especially in communication with other institutions in the country and abroad. The 2001 Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities was also designed to set up a fund for national minorities. There were no conditions for regulation of the work of the fund until the Law on National Councils of National Minorities was adopted. The conditions for these amendments and additions have now been met, and this issue should be regulated and regulated, or the regulation of the issue regulated by sublegal acts, because through this fund, through project financing, it would be possible to regulate and finance minority traditional manifestations, but also to maintain minority institutions in the fields of culture, education or information. With us national minorities live mainly in underdeveloped municipalities. That makes their funding difficult. For example, in the area of education, countries allocate funds for employees only, and the obligation of local self-government is to finance the maintenance of buildings, the travel costs of employees, the procurement of educational and other technical assistance, heating, electricity and other utility, which is certainly in today's conditions of crisis and reduced revenues to local self-government difficult and reduced volume. The next remark would be that this bill does not regulate the issue of the property of national councils. Not only is it not a prescribed form of property that the national councils of national minorities can obtain, but it is not prescribed whether they can be successors, or heirs to the foundations that were nationalised in 1945 and whether they can demand the return of the same property. I'm saying this because there was a dispute in the Vrsac municipality between the Romanian National Council on Property and some of the foundations that were nationalized in 1945, so we have negative experiences on that plan. One of the important suggestions in the public debate was that depolitisation should be carried out when the issue of national councils, their choice and constitution, because there are indications that political parties and policies had had an impact on the constitution of national councils at the beginning of the law and in the first constitutions. A new solution should also be discussed on this issue to conduct RIK elections for national councils. If looked at on the one hand, it is a good solution because it is a qualified working body that has experience and which can help national councils conduct the election process. But if we look on the other side. The RIK composition is such that representatives of the Republic Election Commission, and we had that in this session, are giving political parties. The question is how many representatives of national minorities have their representatives and how much will affect the process of elections through the Republic Election Commission and how much depoliticalisation will be needed. We expect the competent ministry to prepare changes and additions as soon as possible, which will cover the issues that I have stated that I believe should be regulated or prepared a new law since these amendments and additions have already changed about 50% of the norms, so it may be easier to implement and bring new legislation. In anticipation of resolving these issues, MP Boris Tadic -- the New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Greenie will not support these amendments and additions to the law for the time being. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1202	Thank you. I would ask the National Assembly to act in accordance with Article 128. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and take over the cards of MPs in electronic units, and MPs are not currently in the hall. The People's Messenger Gordana Komic has the word, and let the Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1203	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to earn your attention to the comments and remarks on the proposal and the law on amendments and additions to the National Councils Act from two perspectives. The first is a procedureal which is sometimes just as important as the essential content that we form by trying to explain to the members of the law to those for which we have even passed the law, so to all in Serbia, and the second one that implies that this law needs to be seen from this valuable perspective when it comes to the remarks on individual members. Procedurally, why is this the law of alterations and additions? Because here is the fourth or fifth year in the National Assembly, there are unique methodological rules that oblige all lawmakers to submit drafts of the law. The unique methodological rules in Section 5 of Article 47 states that if more than half of the members of a law are in amendments, then a new law must. Here you have 138 members of the existing law in 68 amendments. Hands on your heart, at 70. Note, this procedural rule is important that we also see through it how this law is viewed through the general interest, because we can exhaust ourselves in whether it is 70 or 68 and each of the sides would be quite firm in their views, and we can say – the general interest and ideas of adopting these amendments and supplementing them to conduct elections for national councils. The unique methodological rules and Chapter 5 of Article 47 prevents this bill from amending and supplementing the decisions of the Constitutional Court, because it would then, without any dispute, have to be a new law. The second procedural thing I want to mention, and I am glad that Minister Kori Udovici is here, is the Resolution of the National Assembly on Legislative Policy adopted by this Assembly in June 2013, these two acts, the single methodological rules and the Resolution on Legislative Policy often serve every executive authority, and unfortunately many of us, for – whatever it is, it's useless, it doesn't serve anything. Both acts serve to fully implement the Assembly's supervisory and control role, and the resolution on legislative policy, I think, is an act that the Udovici Minister will benefit from measurablely in his work, in the powers he has in the government. I will also say why, in the last third of the acts adopted unanimously by the Assembly, the Resolution on Legislative Activity, it is said: "Every legislator is obliged to submit, with a draft, or draft draft draft, which is in the public debate if it is in the procedure, a draft and a proposal for sublegal acts", or if it is not possible, to give the National Assembly an explanation of why he cannot also submit a draft or a proposal for sublegal acts. There's no law until the sublaws are passed. As long as you don't have that thing to become a routine, you won't have any promises of changes made by the law, because no law will be applied. These changes and additions no matter how many votes we adopt without sublegal acts produce no consequences for the elections on national councils. Given that I know that it is the responsibility of Minister Udovici and that he is involved in politics and that he is concerned with harmonising all the policy perspectives in various sectors, but also that he is engaged – whether he is doing so, I think he will have strong support for the implementation of this Assembly's resolution, and I am announcing that in each address I will mention these two important acts – the unique methodological rules under which the proposals for acts and the Resolution on legislative activity, which both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Assembly and all those participating in the legislative process are submitted. If we had sublegal acts, and based on the resolution adopted, the second part of my discussion would be pointless, because it would say how to apply the provisions that I now have to ask questions about and comment on. When I want to comment on a few members, I have no intention of repeating what the consensus is about, which is that with less or more knowledge we all have information about where we have national advice and that we know how important it is to respect human rights and that we know that human rights have no hierarchy, that human rights and minority and women's human rights and rights from work and rights are, however defined, they don't have hierarchy and they all have to apply to the state and society that wants to build themselves as a society of rule of law. Directly, the solutions stem from a document adopted in this home, called a small charter or constitutional charter, an extraordinary act. I am sorry that one idea we had with the Republic of Montenegro, Bosnia, Croatia and Slovenia failed to become a regional act. It is also an idea for Minister Udovici to introduce the Constitutional Charter into regional co-operation, because it is indeed a good document. Later by adopting the Law on National Councils, after the Law on the Protection of Freedom and the Rights of National Minorities, we received national advice, satisfied that in Serbia we all live together, Slovaks, Russian, Hungarians, Romanians, Ukrainians, Roma, Croats, Macedonians, Montenegrins, Bulgarians, Vlasi, Greeks, Bunjevci, Germans, Albanians, Bosniaks, Slovenians, Russians, Turks. I'm sorry there aren't any Zincars left, because I like the legends of the Cincars in our society. All of them under the law have the right to organise themselves in their national councils, carrying out valuable cultural autonomy in education, culture, communication and the use of language and letter. In some parts of Serbia, there is a long tradition, unrelated to states that have been organised, and for some, this is for the first time. You can see exactly the differences and difficulties in the application of the law, as it was. What are the members to whom I wish to make remarks and the amendments to which I would ask the Minister to take a very careful look at them? It is the provisions to be deleted from the register, the provisions explaining the reasons for the suspension of the elections and the time limits provided for in the register, which differ significantly from the usual deadlines. It's some kind of focus I want to pay attention to. Why? Because through these few members it is clear and through discussion that there is a lack of something in our society, which is not just about the Law on National Councils. It's about trust. Without trust as a glue society, you have no ability to function any institutions you want to build. Without trusting the value system you want to build, there's no way we can feel and the responsibility not to reduce or lose that trust. We're a trustless society. When they want to insult us, they say that we are a society of cheaters and those prone to easy promises, whether it's the speed of change or any word, that we are more inclined to talk than we are to really do. There's no real work in changing society without trust. Why is that so important to these members? Because in an explanation for eradicating the register, it is mentioned that the law has the right to prevent abuse. If you have a need to define how members of national minorities will be elected and if you say – this member to suspend the election or prevent abuse because they are not interested, then we have a much bigger problem than whether to delete them from the register. If we're going to decide to allow the removal from the register with relatively vague forms, then what happens next time? Then we have a much bigger problem than if you have found in a really legal way that there is no half of it in the national council or that something is happening which is why the ministry decides to delete it from the register. When it comes to national minorities, the subject is seen as extremely delicate and terribly sensitive. But if you move it through various other structures, you'll see that in essence there was a solution because, not that there was no application of the existing law, but there was no confidence that such a thing could happen at all that you had organized national communities legally exercising their powers. Through this hall we have heard the bile and the moments of terrible and binding words about the work of several national councils. Hence probably the argument that we must have a provision that will prevent abuses. No, we need to be aware that we need to build trust when it comes to the work of national councils. The difference is huge. I hope that by adopting the amendments, such as they are, or by working on the amendment through the committee in charge we will try to cross that step, so that we understand that if we cannot conduct the elections at all, because there are no interested ones, then the problem is much bigger than making a decision in the administration that there will be no formation of national councils. If we can't form a national council because you can't regulate by law whether or not there will be candidates from political parties founded in national communities or founded in the majority or other national communities, it's hard to really get a solution to problems that are obvious for these previous four years that exist in the work of national councils. My sincere desire is to understand that when something is done for the first time that it always has to show all the shortcomings first, and only then to show all the advantages. You really have national advice that worked great. You have national councils that, despite their difficulties, have worked very well. You've got situations, and I'm going to make examples without the guidance of the national councils themselves, but I know for a fact that it's an event that's happened. So you also have national advice to which the budgetary inspector comes and asks why the record is and why are the documents in the language of the national council? They say -- you know, we're formed to work in that language. No, he's looking for a translation into Serbian. You also have national advice that has extraordinary co-operation with the countries of origin that have problems with restitution or conflicting documents or interpretations about whose building it is, so they cannot build what is in their jurisdiction to have as a history of memory of their people, history of culture, etc. You have national advice that can't be agreed on who's in charge, under the quote, within the national councils, and then what's more important and who has to listen more often goes through political parties or conflicted interest groups within the national minority, than really goes according to the law. I know that everyone in the executive office knows much better than I do from the daily work of national councils and all the energy invested to solve some of these examples. It is my duty to be absolutely safe, and that is why I return to mentioning the resolution on legislative activity. I wouldn't have to say all this if I'd seen a sublegal act, if I'd seen a manual, if I'd seen a rule, because I would have read it, so there wouldn't be a need to have a misunderstanding about how certain members would apply. So more important than whether or not the amendment will be adopted is that we understand that in this second phase of the National Council Act and expecting a whole new law, it will be inevitable or there will be an amendment and addition of this amended and updated, however, to consider how we can work on building and strengthening trust within society. Once we have made a clear decision on this, then there will be a strengthening of trust between majority and minority communities, majority and minority groups, but also between minority communities, because this lack of trust, which is a major problem for us in society, is being reviewed and in having bilateral talks, agreements between national communities that seem to be agreeing on each other. It is all legitimate and legal, but it is our obligation as MPs to first inform the general public clearly about it, and then to try the dialogue with the executive authority to decide together that the best possible text of amendments and additions, with the smallest possible source of interpretation, is in the day of voting in the National Assembly. Of course, that does not mean, nor does anyone have such an idea, that it will solve all problems, from financial ones, through the problem of covering their responsibilities, to the different capacities of national councils, different history of national communities in Serbia's territory. This does not mean that these issues will be solved by this law, but I think it was a huge step forward, that we understand that my remarks and procedures, therefore of two important documents and of several provisions directed at the beginning of the dialogue on building and trust as such, so whatever confidence the form had in strengthening within the national communities, within the government itself, between the local self-government of the executive government, between the national councils and the local self-government, between us MPs and anyone who is in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a glue that brings success, and we can all just cheer for a success that will have the development of national councils in years ahead. Finally, to take advantage of the presence of Korija Udovici with the risk of being reminded by the chairman, the nature of your powers is such that I ask you to take another topic into account and the situation created after the decision to abolish the Directorate for Gender Equality and that through some dialogue here or with a wider part of society, let us consider whether your ministry could be the initiator and most valuable in the business of establishing an office or simply looking at the gender perspective through politics. I thank the chairman for allowing me these 30 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1204	The word has a folk MP Vladimir Pavicevic, and let the MP Aida Ćorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I think that if we speak objectively, appropriately and precisely this is one good proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. Zoran Zivkovic has already said that the two of us will vote in favour of this proposal as a whole. We did not judge this proposal, not only based on the content that arrived here at the National Assembly, but we also followed the entire course of work to prepare this bill. And that's where we want to point out that there really was one fundamental approach, that it was meant to be, that the formulas that stand here are very precise. We appreciate it very much, we appreciate it and we judge it based on these things. It's very good, I mean, all these changes that primarily concern the organisation of elections and the constitution of national councils are very good. We haven't been able to prepare any amendments for this item on the agenda, although I think we already recognize here as the MPs who are preparing, even on the petty matters of some amendment, we haven't been able to do that here. Secondly, I think it's a good thing that the proposals contained in this bill are based on one part and on the experience of the elections that were organised in 2010, which means that we are using this experience to record some of the problems, and after that, we are solving some of the future problems that may be similar. We also appreciate it here. The third thing, it's very good, we are judging, which is not the case with all the proposals that come into this National Assembly, which this proposal is on the agenda in a short time, because there is also a practical need. I think there's one thing we need to do here specifically. We had a minister here who explained this bill, but I think it's time to say that this bill was already prepared at the end of last year, that the merits of this proposal have some persons, we can personally say who these people are. For example, now Assistant Minister Ms. Fira, who understands very much how much I can send, into this matter and Mrs. Stamenic, who was State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice in the previous government, and Minister Selakovic himself, whose work we had major objections to previous days in relation to the proposal for a law on privatisation, but it was obvious to us that this man in this case was taking part in public debates, following what had been decided to make a significant contribution to this bill very good. So I think we should personally say exactly who deserves some commendation in terms of this law. I'm just asking for a little attention on one thing that's particularly important to us. That one thing is actually a suggestion we want to tell you here. As I all think here we know the Constitutional Court announced on the 87 pages of the text at the beginning of 2014 why parts of this same law concerning the jurisdiction of national councils are unconstitutional. We here, the two of us, always react when anything comes that suggests that there is a violation of the rule of law, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and constitutionality. We understand that there was not enough time for the constitutional court's suggestions to be applied and put in place in the proposal for this law amending and supplementing the National Minority Councils Act, but we suggest that these powers should be changed as soon as possible in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision and opinion. I suggest now, in particular, that the writing of this part of this law on the jurisdiction of national councils begin immediately so that we can finally say that we have a very good text that is well-organized by one sphere that we are all interested in. We also suggest that the opinion of those MPs who appear on behalf of the national communities here be particularly respected and that they verify and offer explanations even on those amendments that the government may refuse. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1206	The word has a folk MP, Aida Ćorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1207	The Honorable Presidency, a respected minister, respected co-workers, respected colleagues, has mainly explained what we have as a parliamentary club, where we have ambiguities and dilemmas when it comes to this law, but I agree that this is a good law and that there are some things to intervene in. I wouldn't talk about it any further. Today and yesterday, I listened carefully to what my colleagues were saying, and at one point, I kind of had the impression that we were listening to praises about how tolerated we were when we had such a good law, and that's how we support minorities. I would just like to share with you all one of my experiences 12 years ago when we worked with late Prime Minister Djindjic on a poverty reduction strategy. I was a member of a team that, on behalf of the NGO sector, commented and worked on making a very important document at the time. I learned one important rule, which is that poverty is not primarily a lack of money, but poverty is a lack of human rights above all. In that sense, I think it is very important that we have a good law, because if the rights of minorities are respected in full capacity it means a well-being for all of Serbia, it does not only mean a benefit for minorities, but indeed for the whole country and it really means that we can say that this country will be more economically stable and richer, and that I am not talking about the areas where the majority of minority peoples live will be more stable, not only economically but in every sense, but it means a lot to the whole country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1208	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1209	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the NDS and the coalition made up of the ZZS, Green Serbia, cannot support this law on amendments and additions to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. Why? Our coalition is very important and what is contained in one law and how one law is passed, how it comes into the process. The coalition headed by Boris Tadic is very important that national minority rights are not decided at sessions called for by an emergency procedure. There cannot be such a reason that it will now and in future allow national minority rights to be decided at sessions called two, three days before the debate, where MPs, as a colleague said earlier, did not have the opportunity to make amendments either. I can say that there wasn't enough time to implement a law that changes or complements almost 50% of the new members of the existing law. My colleague, Comic, said 138. No, 139 members have an existing law, and it changes with changes and additions that have 68 members. So almost half of the members are changing by emergency procedure. This is unacceptable for us, and that is one of the basic reasons why we will not support this law, because a regular procedure that would have to apply to such laws is at risk. There is no reason to convince us that the National Minority Councils Act must be adopted by an urgent procedure. It may be the Privatisation Act or the Law on the Selection of the Committee of the National Assembly, but it cannot be the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. Another reason, and in some ways arises from this, is the fact that national councils of national minorities did not have the opportunity to place their observations, suggestions, invitations, etc. in this final text. All stories are on the law that was in the procedure, so withdrawn in the term of the previous government. As far as I know, there are several amendments to this law compared to the previous text, so that perhaps the national councils would be willing to have the opportunity to convene a session of national councils and say, yes, this law is good or – yes, this law needs to be amended and that they have given any suggestions to the ministry, so that these changes may come and come. No, some of the national councils called into our parliamentary group to ask if it was true that the law had come into practice. How are they not informed about this? Some have been informed, perhaps those who have better contact with the government, but not all national councils have been trained in any other way to monitor the procedure of the National Assembly and how the laws enter the National Assembly. The third reason is in the fact that we cannot support this law, which will be essentially difficult to apply. The fact that we have 50% of the new provisions means that we will need a legal expert who could implement those provisions. Believe me, I read the law from beginning to end, and old and new, and it was very difficult when you have an article 3n, so a new member of 3f is added, etc. etc. There is not every national council of legal experts and in this sense it can be said that national councils will have problems interpreting this law and that creates certain legal uncertainty that should not exist when national councils are concerned. This results in the following topic which is open here, which is the fact, i.e. the question of you – why did you not decide to wait another month, two days for these amendments to be in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, which gave some provisions of the National Minority Councils Act to be declared unconstitutional and passed a new law? Yeah, that might mean postponing the election for national councils. Would it be a greater shame or this, where you pass a law that you will change again in two, three months, or half a year, it doesn't matter, you conduct elections and after those elections you will have a new amendment of the law or a new law? You'll have one legal galamitia we didn't need. If she had looked at the new situation in the right way, it was also due to the fact that this government had no continuity, that there were three, four months of campaigns, elections, etc. that we had come to a situation where elections would be organised. That's why I don't think this proposal of yours deserves support. They certainly deserve the attention of some provisions that might say that they are the measure of the law. This is, for example, a provision for the Republic Election Commission to take over the role, i.e. holding elections in national councils. It's a provision we might be able to discuss, probably to find good and bad faults. The good things are certainly in the fact that the Republic Election Commission has the capacity to realise the elections. How could you not have them when she organized, say, republican elections for the MPs sitting here? How could she not organise elections for the national council? But do you think that the elections are the same legal political and, if you want social values and do you think that the Republic Election Commission, where representatives of one, the other, third, fourth parties in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are in some way representing their political interests in that Republic Election Commission? The Republic Election Commission is a political body, as it is exclusively represented by political parties. There are no representatives of minority parties, i.e. representatives of one or two minority parties as deputies or as members of that commission. The previous body that realised the elections was made up of representatives of minorities. So we come up with a serious question – should one body, which should protect the interests of the majority parties, to call them, be required to hold elections for national councils of national minorities? In parallel, we don't exactly have any indicators that would tell us that state-level authorities are holding elections for minority self-government. We don't have that kind of confirmation, and we just need experience to show us what we're gonna get out of this. This is a serious subject. The second question from the metrics is that if the national council is deleted from the register, I could so read, by the next election cycle, and that can theoretically mean four years, the national council cannot return to life. So it is possible that some national minority for four years does not have a national council, for example, because the number of registered members of that national minority has fallen below 40%. For example, due to a brilliant economic situation, some members of the national minority have moved out of Serbia, lost their citizenship, and thus no longer, say, are in the register, the national minority is losing the right to be registered in the register and there is no enrolment for four years, and that national minority has no authority to protect it against state authorities. On the other hand, a new provision, which I think is very controversial, is that members of the Executive Board must be members of the National Council. I don't think that, Madam Minister, there's any excuse. The Executive Board shall be the Executive Body of the National Council and shall be on the national council whether to place a member of the National Council in that executive body or to place another member of that national minority. It is important that this Executive Board performs its duties. Maybe they need some lawyer, maybe they need some art historian, maybe they need some culture scientist, and you're doing a job, and that's why you're interfering with national councils, you're getting into autonomy, who they're going to put into this national council. It's a new provision. I think she's bad. On the other hand, I don't know what you need the provision for forming a special ballot for national minorities is 5% of the signatures of members of that national minority and at least 300 signatures. What's 300 for? If it's 5%, it's 5%. This way, this isn't harmless, you're jeopardizing at least, so to speak, minorities and the possibility that they really have a problem getting into a special polling list. However, we will talk about all of this through the amendments, the day we discuss amendments, but for all these reasons, first of all, because of the way this law came into the process, we cannot support this proposal of yours, and we hope that it will not fall upon you in the future that you put questions concerning national minorities by an urgent procedure in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, no matter how much you are convinced that you are right in many solutions. In this respect, members of national minorities must have their position and, ultimately, a debate must be opened against other factors that protect national minorities in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1210	The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just yesterday's and today's discussion we could hear and see an extremely primitive attack on one of the legitimate national councils. The messages he made in front of a majority list yesterday and today are alarming and alarming. It's completely out of the agenda. On the day when a general law is discussed for all national communities, MPs from one majority list are given room to threaten state mechanisms and force, to address threats to Bosniaks and legitimate Bosniak institutions. This is another evidence of political pressure on Bosniaks, which is constantly coming from the top of the state and therefore the law should provide for the protection of the legitimate institutions of national councils and was one of our main criticisms of this law. The paradox of yesterday's discussions are also some hypocritical criticisms brought to the expense of the Bosniak National Council, so there is a legitimate question – why is this the only national council that is constantly under the siege of the majority parties and their satellites?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1212	Mr. Enise, I'm interrupting. Please, here, you accused a colleague of only 2% or 3% of talking about the subject of the agenda, and here since you started your presentation, you're not even that 2% or 3%. I ask you not to represent here the views of the council, but to represent your political views, and I do not consider that national minorities are threatened by the state. I am proof that you are not threatened lies in that you are here a representative who has been legitimately elected in accordance with the laws of this state and this assembly that she has brought. This time I used will be denied to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1213	So you said that I have the right as the elected representative to speak and to express my political views and this is my political position regarding this law. I'm just pointing to the practical evidence of the lack of temzacon that concerns the national communities. Just your reaction, I speak as an authorised representative of the minority parliamentary club, where you do not allow me to point to practical examples, is proof of what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1214	Mr. Imamovic, like this, in accordance with Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, here, you can step out of the agenda. That's what the Constitution allows you in this case. So much for how undemocratic we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1215	Thank you. I'm not going out of the picture anyway, I'm going to be talking about national councils right now. I ask the question why the Bosniak National Council is a constant subject and why persistent Bosniaks are trying to impose solutions and representatives that the people do not want, which they have shown they do not want. In our discussion, we have repeatedly underlined that the Law on National Councils needs essential, not technical changes. The responsibility of national councils is particularly important. It was these political accusations that came at the expense of the Bosniak National Council that came from a party that has been in all possible governments since 2000 until today. The Bosniak National Council has been accused of doing nothing for the Bosniaks. What has this party done for 14 years in power to unblock the processes of applying the individual, collective and minority rights of the Bosniaks, guaranteed by the Constitution and by the law of this country? I ask the question – what has this party done for the official use of Bosnian language and letters? What did she do for the right to inform in Bosnian? What was done to bring the national structure of employees in state authorities into line with public authorities in the towns of Sandzak where Bosniaks live as a minority? It is another of the mistakes of the majority parties when minorities impose solutions that minorities do not want. We talked about these amendments and amendments to the law, and we said that they did not provide answers to a number of issues that are essential for the exercise of minority rights, i.e. that these amendments and additions did not establish new mechanisms to strengthen the position, status and role of national councils in the process of achieving these minority rights. We said that the state has given up, through a series of laws, directs members of national minorities right to national councils, to exercise their individual and collective rights through national councils, while on the other hand we see that the state does nothing to raise the status of these national councils to an appropriate level. We believe that this proposal goes one step further, where the state is creating a framework to erase and abolish national councils. We have asked the question – how does this state want to take care of minorities if these legal solutions reduce the rights guaranteed by the Constitution? Our intention is to introduce the issue of minorities into institutional frameworks by amending this law in a better and more effective way, and one of the proposals is to affirm the existence of that Council of the Republic of Serbia for national minorities. We said he was already formed in 2009 in July, but so far he has not lived. The composition of that advice speaks enough. As part of the council, the prime minister, the competent ministers, the presidents of national councils and MPs elected from minority lists should sit. This advice should take care of the preservation, promotion and protection of national, ethnic, religious and cultural specificities of members of national minorities, but we have said that it would take preventive measures to remove obstacles to the exercise of those rights. The issue of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia and the achievement of their individual and collective rights has been regulated through a set of laws. We mentioned, I want to draw attention to them again. This is the Federal Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities 2002, a set of laws in the field of education, culture, information, official use of languages and letters, the Law on the Use of Personal Documents, the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. I also draw attention to the ratification of international documents. In order to adequately treat and resolve the situation of minorities, we believe that it is necessary to pass a general, roof law that would arise from the merger of these mentioned laws, in particular by joining the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities from 2002 and the Law on National Councils of 2009 and he should, I should now underline this several times, that it is based on the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe 1985 adopted on 04 April of this year. Such a law would help systemically address the issue of the exercise of minority rights. As a legitimate representative of Bosniaks in this House, I warn you that these existing and future legal solutions violate human and minority rights and waters in the assimilation of Bosniaks. One of the freshest evidence is the one about the RIK composition, where we asked for representatives of minority parliamentary clubs to get a seat of RIK members, and RIK deputies to come from minority parliamentary parties that are not part of parliamentary clubs. We have seen that this composition is not respected and that we expect RIK, which is scheduled to hold elections for national councils, does not belong to representatives of the parliamentary parties of minority nations sitting in this parliament. So we're asking you to respect our suggestions, because otherwise these proposals are unacceptable to us and we're going to vote against in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1216	The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You broke Article 106, I'll explain why, which says the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. However, you have called on Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, allowing the previous speaker to bring forth a mass of lies and accusations at the expense of the ruling party and the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, because of Article 76. The constitution you have called on says that members of the national minorities are guaranteed equality before the law and equal legal protection, any discrimination due to membership of the national minority, etc. I don't think you had any right to allow a gentleman, or speaker, before he gave his political stance, which can't be called a political attitude, but a mass of the lies he made in his speech. I think you've violated the Rules of Procedure, or Rule 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1218	Col. Mijatovic, when you were quoting article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then you should quote attitude 3. I believe that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure because at the beginning of the presentation of colleagues, who are representatives of one part of the Bosniak people, he made objections to the work of their council and I can believe that they were their mutual accusations, without the desire to involve the state authorities. I was a little more tolerated in the application of the Rules of Procedure, and that's why I don't think there's any injury. Do you want to vote on the day of the vote to make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Muamer the Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1219	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, I have worked really hard to be professional, even though I am not a lawyer, and to point out the really serious shortcomings that the previous law had. I thank everyone who took a serious part in the debate, sticking to this order. I'd like to thank the serious opposition. We heard that one part of the opposition, represented by Mr Vladimir Pavicevic, seriously praised the procedure and way of creating this law, the quality of its vocabulary and the carrying out of all the shortcomings that the law had. I tried to point out what kind of failures an unquality law could bring, and that's what you could see. I took this example through the institution of the establishment of the Bosniak National Council. Anyway, I want to thank the government that this law, which is for us, can say that I am an indigenous Bosniak, and so I am delegated here and elected on the list, extremely and crucially. We've heard so much about his quality. My parliamentary group will support him. I want to congratulate all Bosniaks on the holiday of May 10th of the flag day and to thank Mr. Vukic for starting to realize his promise. We will strongly support him in the fight against corruption and all kinds of abuses, and I will, as a representative of the citizens of this country, support and insist on it. In this direction was my criticism of the abuse of finance I pointed to, and these are all the data available from the auditors hired by this Council. Anyway, I want to say that we're going to support this proposal and that it's really good quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1220	The word has been made by MP Enis Imamovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1221	I just want to take the opportunity to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if you've been under obligation, you probably don't, to meet the previous speaker that the Day of the Bosniak flag is not May 10th, but May 11th. So, the Day of the Bosniak Flag in the Republic of Serbia is celebrated on 11 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1222	I'm sorry I don't know, but you've corrected that irregularity, so thank you. The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1223	Good afternoon to all MPs. I would like to thank you for this very thorough debate and for the very useful suggestions and views that we have received today, as well as for the strong support that I have seen in this debate for something that we should support in principle, and we will discuss, if necessary, some particulars, we will look very carefully at the amendments that have been submitted, but we know that this draft law proposes solutions to certain problems that we all identify, and that if this draft is adopted, it will greatly remove these problems. I would like to say that this strong support comes, as MP Pavicevic said, because this law was brought carefully, in a long but inclusive procedure, where many representatives of national minorities, i.e. councils, as well as international communities, had the opportunity to give their opinion. It's certainly not my fault. The fact that he is still being brought by an emergency procedure is a result of circumstances and examples of circumstances in which something is sometimes to be taken according to an emergency procedure. First of all, I would like to respond to the opinion that rights cannot be spoken of by emergency procedure. This isn't about national minority rights. This is primarily about procedural issues that will ensure that these rights are implemented as they are already laid down by law in an uncontested manner. I would like to point out that our regret that we were not able to include in this draft law the fact that the Constitutional Court found certain positions in it unconstitutional, but after the court's decision, a debate was held in the ministry, a meeting with representatives of all national councils and attended from the EU delegation, the head of the Political Department. The meeting concluded that it is necessary to approach the amendments and additions of the law as they were prepared by then, and I think that at that moment the public debate has already passed and that it should be followed by an urgent procedure to parliament after the constitution of the new calling for, as I say, the procedure of the elected national councils in October to be able, their representatives, to take part in the creation of a new law or in addition to the new law. We'll see what's the best shape in that moment. It means that they could participate and contribute after a comprehensive analysis of how best to take into account the conclusions. The Constitutional Court's decision. With this in mind, we will certainly approach the work of the draft of this new law or amendments to the laws before that October so that until the election and completion of the constitution of the new national councils we will be able to give these representatives clearly elaborated, prepared dilemmas that still exist, and of course we will include, in this process, representatives of national minorities in this lofty home. I would also like to point out that we recognize that this law is in its effort to narrow down space for misunderstandings or abuses in the selection procedure of national councils or to support their work, introducing somehow complicated, not so simple rules. I would also like to respond to MPs Gordani Comic, who unfortunately is no longer there to fully agree with her. As Minister of State Administration and Deputy Prime Minister in charge of co-ordination, decision-making and policy-making within the government, I will very much advocate the policy-making process of even better regulation and systematicising and stick to the conclusions that parliament has made. It's something that's not going to happen overnight and we're back here with an example of a case where it couldn't have been like that. However, we have already joined the creation of three sublegal acts that will bring closer offices to the content and way of keeping registers of national minority councils, the special electoral list, and the form and content of the form for collecting voter signatures that support the electorate. I also commit myself to making instructions and checking carefully before we put it into circulation, to be a document that helps members of the national minorities to resolve the procedure that is ahead of them. I would also like to respond to a few essential comments that were held in the discussion today. First of all, let me say that we will continue to deal with these issues when we approach the creation of a new law or law amending and supplementing the law, that there is a problem of politicising the work of national minorities' councils and that there are other problems, and in particular, I have heard multiple times, in funding. I think this law just proves to us or shows the fact that democracy is not built overnight. There are intentions and legal, procedural frameworks for which this House is agreed to set and which stakeholders should be kept in the realization and there is a need for these frameworks to be improved. There is a need to consider how these rights are realised. There is also a need for state authorities and executive authorities to become more involved in independent institutions, in the fact that the essence of the rights is increasingly being implemented in the field. I think this is one area where we see it that way. I think that this law and consent that exists around it is an example of that surely the next national councils will have the opportunity to work better, and we will surely find problems in their work that we can and should remove. In that context, I also think that the objection that not giving RIK is a responsibility, or a task to conduct these elections, is that it will politicise, I don't think it stands. But time will tell. It is the most professional and well-trained body for monitoring and organising elections, with a dozen representatives of national minorities in it. Again, time will show and we will be able to think about whether there is anything else in the rules this home sets, which can reduce the politicization of the work of these councils. After all, it is the choice of the national minorities themselves as they will be organised and their advice will represent their right to cultural autonomy. Just to mention, it was an interesting comment from MP Komic that it was also necessary to trust that a society could function. I couldn't agree more. I hope that broad consent and our work, the work of my ministry in this home will improve the creation and development of trust in our society that is necessary for any institution to function. It is also true that if we had full trust then we wouldn't need laws. We write and change this law just to give clear space to what should be a place for realising cultural autonomy and the rights of national minorities, and we change it to narrow down space to misunderstandings and any misunderstanding about what we trusted when we entered into the realisation of someone's rights. Once again, let me point out that I believe that the good part of the amendment that we receive and which we will consider carefully will be considered primarily as contributions to the discussion of the next law. In this regard, I would like to mention that the debate on the advice of national minorities is outside the scope of this law, but that it can be considered in some future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1224	Dear People’s MPs in agreement with Article 87, pages 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that, if necessary, the National Assembly will work today after 1800 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. Now in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, My rules of procedure determines a regular break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1225	In accordance with Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that I'm in charge of a joint review of the motions of the law at issue. 4, 5th and 6th agenda, in addition to the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice, invited the sittings to attend: Biljana Pavlovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Vladimir Davidović, Assistant Minister of Justice, Dr Milan Stevović, Director of the Department of Criminal Sanctions, Aleksandra Stepanović and Dusanka Garić, Head of the Department of Criminal Sanctions, Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Justice Department. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on proposals for legislation from the agenda by point. 4, 5 and 6, and before the opening of a joint principle search, I remind you that it corresponds to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the draft law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Does the Proposer's representative, Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, want a word? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1226	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, at the beginning of today's debate, in principle, to make several preliminary remarks concerning the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the draft law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which are on the agenda today. As regards the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, it should be noted that the applicable law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions applicable from 1 January 2006, with amendments and additions made in 2009 and 2011, the time has been made for the alignment of the text of this law with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and international conventions and legal standards in the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions. A new and modern basis for reform and the introduction of institutes that did not exist until then in our enforcement system has been established. The legal framework for the establishment of the Service for the Implementation of Alternative Sanctions and Measures has also been defined. A two-stage internal complaint system for convicted persons has also been introduced, with clearly defined rights, duties, procedures and deadlines within which complaints must be handled, as well as judicial protection by the initiation of the administrative dispute. For the first time, it has been normably defined on objective and measurable criteria as well as on the basis of the progress procedure in the treatment of convicted, disciplinary punishment of convicted, conditions and method of use of the means of coercion, etc. However, in order to further improve the legislative framework in the Republic of Serbia in this area and to fully comply with EU law, a new law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions raising the level of protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty has been drawn up. I will also remind myself that the adoption of this law, as well as the Law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, is foreseen by the strategy for the development of the criminal sanctions system in the Republic of Serbia by 2020, as well as the Strategy for reducing the overload of housing facilities in the institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions. This legislative proposal introduces a new institute of judges for the execution of criminal sanctions and defines the role, jurisdiction, organisational and procedural framework for the conduct of the judge for execution. The system of judicial oversight of the enforcement of criminal sanctions has been established in almost all continental justice systems. An execution judge has been introduced and acts in Italy, Portugal, Spain, France, Germany and other countries, with a view to reducing the rate of return and disbursement of prison facilities. The results of a new type of judicial protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty in these countries have provided positive effects. I would also point out that the Council of Europe, in its expertise, praised the introduction of this new institute by judges for the execution of criminal sanctions in the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The introduction of a judge for the execution of criminal sanctions in our judicial system will establish more effective judicial protection and supervision of respect for the rights of persons deprived of liberty, given that it is specialised judges in senior courts, which will also represent full compliance with European standards with post-penal acceptance. The executing judge is introduced into our legal system in order to move with strict administrative supervision of the execution of criminal sanctions to judicial control of the execution of criminal sanctions, since the role of the court should not be ended by giving sanctions, but also by monitoring its execution, in order to fully achieve the purpose of giving criminal sanctions. It has been prescribed that a judge will visit the territory of his local jurisdiction at least three times a year to speak to the convicted and inform them on how to exercise his right. The problem is also the lack of an effective system that regulates the protection of the rights of detained persons under certain complaints. This legislative proposal introduces the jurisdiction of the judge for enforcement in this procedure as well. The executing judge shall be responsible for the protection of the rights under the complaint of the detainees and for the proceedings for the application for judicial protection of the convicted or persons to the enforcement of the security measure, which shall be carried out in the institution for the execution of criminal sanctions. The convicted may appeal directly to the judge for the decision of the director of the institution on disciplinary punishment, the determination of a special measure of accommodation, under enhanced supervision and lonely measures. This newspaper is important since it is a matter of procedures that significantly restrict the rights of the convicted and thus require urgency in the course of action. The paper in this new legislative proposal also presents the granting of the status of authorised official to members of the Bureau Security Service. Such a solution has been proposed in view of the powers that members of that service have in the performance of their jobs, their responsibility, the assessment of the degree of risk in the performance of jobs and tasks, daily contact with convicted and detained persons, as well as the importance of this service in the enforcement system for the provision of order and security in criminal and jurisprudence homes. In relation to the current law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, this bill more precisely defines and separate extended rights and benefits that can be granted to the convicted. Another reason for the adoption of a new law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions is the separation of provisions that regulate the enforcement of alternative sanctions and measures into a special law. The adoption of law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, which are proposed at the same time as the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, will particularly regulate this area, due to the growing importance of the enforcement of alternative sanctions, as well as to further compliance with international standards in this area. In connection with this legislative proposal, I will first of all point out that the Administration for Criminal Sanctions, as an authority of the administration within the Ministry of Justice responsible for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, has implemented alternative sanctions since 2009. Seven offices were formed between 2009 and 2012. In the congested state, when I took over as Minister of Justice and State Administration in 2012, there were seven of the six offices that worked. During 2013, the one worked and the new nine offices were opened, and in the course of this year, so by the end of 2014, it is planned to open the remaining nine offices, which will meet the Justice Ministry's plan that there are offices for the enforcement of alternative sanctions in all cities that are senior courts' seats. The completion of the network of alternative sanctions offices is also accompanied by legislative changes that expand the operations of the enforcement of non-conductive sanctions and measures, bringing us closer to the developed systems that exist in most EU countries. Membership in the Council of Europe and the EU accession process mean the existence of an entire set of extra-institutional measures and sanctions. The new law will achieve more effective enforcement of alternative measures and sanctions and will be able to fully demonstrate all the benefits of this type of punishment. Our practice so far points to a number of positive effects of the application of extra-conductive sanctions and measures. In the first place, the effectiveness of sanctioning the perpetrators of less social dangers is improved. This creates conditions for perpetrators of such crimes to repay debt to society in a more adequate and useful way. For example, doing community service. Alternative sanctions affect the reduction of the negative influences of other convicts, especially young people who first appear as perpetrators of criminal acts, thus contributing to the reduction of relapses. The purpose of alternative sanctions and measures is to control and correct the functioning of the perpetrator of a criminal offence by applying different methods without entirely excluding it from its wider social environment, to preserve employment in many situations, to compromise and disrupt its family status, not to interrupt the educational process and so on. The wider application of alternative sanctions and measures contributes to the reduction of the number of persons deprived of freedoms in institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, which is a significant savings in the budget and creates conditions for better treatment of persons located in penal institutions. As an example of budget savings, I will list several statistics over the past two years. During 2012, 209 fines of public interest work were successfully implemented, a total of 33,842 hours of public interest work. Public enterprises, i.e. employers who were convicted of performing socially beneficial work, would have to pay the amount of 6,429,980 dinars, which is a direct savings, i.e. a benefit for our state budget and for the social budget. Given that these could have been prison sanctions, which would have been recalculated in days and years to some 11 years in prison, and that the state's spending on one prison day is on average about 15 euros for a convicted person, it is clear that the savings for society are even higher. In 2013, a total of 253 penalties were carried out in the public interest, which set 74,888 hours of work in the public interest, i.e. 9,361 working day. Public enterprises would have to pay 10,034,992 dinars to carry out their jobs. Using the same methodology as for 2012, it would be recalculated for about 25 years in prison, which means budget savings are about 140 and a half thousand euros. This also applies to the first quarter of the current year, during which 63 penalties were carried out in the public interest, i.e. a total of 12,246 hours of work or 1,530 working days. Public enterprises would have to pay an amount slightly higher than 1,600,000 dinars, and the year-to-year savings would be about four years, which means that the housing savings are slightly less than 22,000 euros. I would especially point out here that after the adoption and application of the new law on offences, we are recording the trend of increasing the sentence of public interest work. When asked about the execution of a prison sentence in the rooms in which the sentenced is resident or, as is otherwise called, a home prison, during 2013, 747 people endured this sentence, which is 3,703 months in prison, i.e. a direct savings of 63.3m dinars or about 550,000 euros. Compared to the first quarter of 2014, this type of execution is conducted according to 203 persons, with a total length of fines of 1,045 months in prison. Direct budget savings are 18 million dinars in the last three months. The situation is similar in the execution of the detention measure with a ban on leaving the apartment, so in 2013 and in the first quarter of 2014, where this measure is applied to 153 persons, it is calculated in 571 months of detention, i.e. direct savings of 9.8 million dinars. These data represent direct savings for the maintenance of convicted and detained persons, and that is when the profits of the trustee and all other costs of implementation and execution are taken away, given that only direct costs are required for the life of persons deprived of liberty in prison. This bill also makes it closer to regulating post-penal treatment procedures and providing assistance to persons after a prison sentence, which will facilitate the reintegration of those convicted in the social environment, thereby reducing the risk of re-injection of criminal offences. This also applies to the monitoring and control of the enforcement of measures by certain paroled persons, which will also reflect positively on the number of court decisions on parole. All of these are due to the continued growth of crime and the number of convicted, as well as because the risk of return increases unless conditions are created that most of the former convicts are successfully reintegrated to the social environment in due time. One of the conditions of success in this field is the organisation of activities that reduce the social exclusion of former convicted persons. In particular, when establishing the Law on the enforcement of non-conductive sanctions and measures, it was taken into account its compliance with the Probation Rules of the Council of Europe, which would not be possible to achieve amendments to the existing Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, and yet another reason for the adoption of this law as a new law. The provisions of the Act on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures are laid down in the procedure for the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures imposed in criminal and criminal proceedings and covers the following. Under one, supervision of the enforcement of obligations under the public prosecutor's decision to postpone prosecution, as well as the implementation of obligations under a verdict made under a concluded plea agreement. Under two, supervision of the enforcement of the ban on leaving the apartment, as well as supervision of the enforcement of the restraining order, meeting or communication with a specific person. Under three, the execution of a prison sentence in the rooms where the convicted resides, with or without electronic supervision, so-called. Home prison. The rights and obligations of convicted and procedures of the work of the trustees have been determined. The newspaper is entitled to stay out of the rooms for up to two hours a day, ranging from 13.00 to 17.00 hours. Taxation also includes the reasons why a convicted person may apply to the director of the administration for permission to leave the premises in which he executes the sentence of his home prison. Four, execution of parole with protective custody. The rights and obligations of the convicted as well as the way the trustees work are governed. Five, the execution of a fine in the public interest. The way in which employers can be determined is how to enforce the penalty of work in the public interest, the type of business, the rights and obligations of those convicted, as well as the obligations and manner of work of the trustees. Six, the execution of measures that the court may determine a convicted person in a decision on parole. Seven, providing assistance to the person after a sustained prison sentence. The difficulties of reintegration into the social environment after a sustained prison sentence often lead to a re-injection of criminal acts, i.e. relapses in criminal behaviour. The responsible society, which seeks to reduce the risks of the former convicted persons continuing with criminal activity, must create conditions for continued support for those persons in order to overcome the problems they can face after leaving the penitentiary. This significant segment of criminal and legal protection that promotes the adaptation of former convicted persons to the social community's demands and its inclusion in society should be realised by creditors. Eight, the last, or last newspaper, which I quote from this part of the law, makes it a special measure to prevent crimes against half-freedom, according to minors. The perpetrator of a criminal offence against semi-freedom against minors is obliged to report to the competent trustee within three days of the date of enforcement of the criminal penalty imposed on him. The rights and obligations of these persons have been governed after the prison sentence has been maintained as well as the conduct of the trustees during their supervision. It is important to note that two extensive public hearings were held during the preparation of the legal texts for the professional and general public in December 2012, and in May 2013, when proposals of the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the Law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures were presented, as well as an expert report on the compliance of labour versions of the laws with the existing laws governing this area. Public hearings were called, in addition to employees from criminal and correctional institutions, interested representatives of bodies and organisations, judicial authorities, international organisations, NGOs and associations of citizens, professors and other interested bodies, institutions and organisations. The texts of the working versions of both laws were set up on the Justice Ministry site as well as on how to submit observations of the proposal and suggestions. The drafts of both laws have been sent to the Council of Europe, and the recommendations received by the Working Group have been considered and entered into the proposed texts, so that the proposed texts of the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the Law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, among other things, are the result of public debates and recommendations of the Council of Europe experts. Finally, I would also like to make a few preliminary remarks concerning the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Apparently and essentially what they are, short and nomotechnics known as intervention changes. First of all, I would like to point out that it is the most necessary amendments to this Code, and that in the Ministry of Justice it is closely monitored and analysed its implementation and application and is considering its most detailed amendment and supplementation. Other organisational and technical measures for its smooth and full application are being taken. Of course, if, after more detailed analysis, it is necessary to make more extensive changes, i.e. interventions in this legal text, such interventions will also be prepared. Also, one of the reasons for the adoption in this small scope of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure is the fulfilment of the measures that we have undertaken to adopt the National Anti-Corruption Strategy Action Plan by 2018. For now, I'd say these changes and additions are related to the complementarity of the measures that can be taken according to the defendant for the security of his presence. Determining the allocation of funds obtained from the defendant when the institute was applied for the disposal of criminal prosecution. Amendments to the provisions on obtaining a record of electronic communication reached, as well as provisions governing the conclusion of an agreement on the recognition of a criminal offence can be concluded. Such additions are necessary because the new Code of Criminal Procedure, unlike the 2001 Code, does not contain a prohibition to visit certain places within the scope of the measures which can be applied to the defendant for the smooth conduct of the criminal proceedings. Given that such a measure is necessary, especially in the case of persons who have been accused of committing a crime of violent conduct at a sports event or a public meeting referred to in Article 344. The criminal code, by introducing such a measure into the Code of Criminal Procedure, prevents the defendant from repeating a criminal offence if there is a danger. I will remind you that in almost identical form, this law is the new government, that is, the new government has withdrawn when it enters into office, and in fact now this law is returning to the procedure. And the direct cause for the adoption of this, that is, the proposal of this particular part of the Bill's proposal, were frequent riots with the unfortunate fatal outcomes at sports events at the end, that is, the second half of last year. When it comes to the fact that violent behavior at sports events is mainly a particular circle of the same persons, and that these persons often repeat the same crime, the proposed measure gives the possibility that a court prohibits such persons from attending certain places, most often sports facilities, if we are talking about this particular case, during the course of the criminal proceedings. In addition, the bill also regulates the distribution of funds obtained from the defendant when the institution is applied to delay prosecution. This amendment has been proposed in order to allocate all these funds more correctly and transparently. In particular, it is proposed that the funds be distributed through a public competition involving humanitarian organisations, funds, public institutions, as well as other interested legal and natural persons. The competition will be conducted by a special commission educated by the justice minister while the final decision on the distribution of funds for humanitarian and other public purposes will be made by the Serbian government. One of the main reasons for proposing such a newspaper is the result of an analysis of the current availability of funds collected from the postponement of criminal prosecution where in some of the largest prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia we found that the funds went to only two or three addresses although the circle of natural and legal persons whose assets were needed was far, far wider than it was indeed a round of benefits from this institute. The significant paper represents an amendment to the provision relating to obtaining records of electronic communication achieved. It is proposed that these data can only be obtained by order of the court, not by order of the public prosecutor. In addition to the fact that such a change is necessary in order to protect personal data, it should be recalled that this provision is contested before the Constitutional Court for a reason. It is precisely because the procurement of records does not take place after the court's decision, and this amendment simultaneously requires the harmonisation of the disputed legislative provision. I would also point out that the legislative provision regarding the conclusion of an agreement on the recognition of a criminal offence is being amended by proposing that this agreement can be concluded until the main investigation is concluded, unlike the current legal solution which provides for this agreement to be concluded until the defendant's statement on the charge of the main investigation. The proposed solution is due to the request for judicial practice. Such a change is expected to allow for more effective criminal proceedings, as conditions are created to conclude the agreement in question at a later stage, thus achieving a faster completion of the case and a reduction in the costs of the criminal proceedings. That would be the most significant newspaper in the three draft laws in the shortest time. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that, after the debate, both in principle and in particular, the proposed laws will be adopted. The adoption of these laws will create conditions for achieving the objectives of the already adopted strategic documents concerning both the judiciary and the criminal sanctions system. A more precise normative framework will be created compared to existing laws and some of our international commitments in the EU accession process will be carried out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1227	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1228	Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, the Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia are very interested in the laws that are in the process and on the topic of the agenda primarily because of the situation in our society, because of the situation in our prisons, because of the continued increase in the criminality process, especially underage delinquency, because of the fact that more and more young people for many reasons, failed transitions, insufficient functioning of the system institutions, because the future of young people is quite endangered, and even those educated who graduate from college and with the best grades in terms of hard getting jobs and unsatisfactory earnings and a number of other reasons. We are not only you, but also the previous minister of justice always when we adopt similar laws that go into line with life and with European standards, but I would first and foremost refer to the needs of our society, regardless of what the requirements of Brussels, the Council of Europe and the EU are, and how important this chapter is not only in the process of joining our country, but rather in the process of normalising life in our country, because what the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction and the Democratic Party of Serbia are seeking from its establishment, these are radical changes for the better in our society, the strengthening of institutions and the creation of a country for the decent life of its citizens. We will surely support these legal solutions. The legal solutions themselves do not have much to negotiate, because they respect both life and modern trends and what the EU requires. We've made a lot of amendments with only one goal, and that's special attention to the rights of the convicts, to strengthen those rights. A series of researches from those dealing with this problem indicate that especially young prison convicts have a sense of hopelessness. Even 70% of returnees in the first six months of their release from prison are doing crimes again, which is again an indicator of several factors. First, resociation, retraining, involving convicts in life normally after prison and what was expected to jail, in addition to what was meant by punishment, to contribute to training and education, to prepare for life after prison, do not produce sufficient results. One of the indicators of all this is that in 2000 we had about six thousand detainees, that the growth of prisoners and detainees in continuity was growing. This may also be evidence of the criminalisation of society, and may also be evidence of the wake-up of the state in terms of sanctioning the perpetrators of the crime. I mean, it's not the specificity of Serbia. That's the situation in the region, too. It is similar in BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia, as well as in Croatia, which is an EU member. What are the conditions in our prisons today if we are to achieve the full effect of the resociation and integration of convicts and the preparation for life after prison and the deterrent from doing the crime again? The situation, of course, is not satisfactory and it's not just my assessment. It's an evaluation of your ministry, and it's an assessment of everyone who's involved in monitoring the situation in our prisons. What's that about? First of all, I think one of the main reasons is the absence of money. Of the 20m euros and some million euros that we deprive from the Institute's work budget, over 80% go to employees' salaries. So, first of all, there's a lack of money. Secondly, employees of institutions not only are half of them in the service of security, but others are included in two categories of employees – those who are extremely professional and trained and seem to be moving forward with life and with trends, in terms of continuous training, training, education, etc. and the other part of the employees who fell asleep in some years ago and who continue to treat prisoners in an inhuman way and, above all, think that the means are to force prisoners to do so and that they do not need to be treated humanly. I say again, it's not just the evaluations of our parliamentary group based on what we've been doing and researching. These are the evaluations of the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, a series of NGOs. It seems to me that in some other laws, when we talked about the situation in our prisons, we all made similar estimates, that it was not satisfactory – overcrowding of prisons, poor food, poor hygiene, the absence of hygiene funds that often brings prisoners to an extremely humiliating position, relics of heritage. Many guards like 20, 30 or 40 years ago, when we lived in a time of dictatorship, harass, instead of educating and preparing the best way to live prisoners. For example, prisoners are harassing that toothbrush with clean radiators, tiles, etc. There is also an increase in some infectious diseases, such as hepatitis C and hepatitis B. Suicid, drug in prisons and all other phenomena that are characteristic of this type of life again are not specific only in Serbia. It's something that exists all over the world. It's something that will always exist in the most orderly systems, but it seems to me our task to first point to these problems, and then to see what the roads are that all that exists in a negative sense is to the least possible measure. In that part, we say that we will always have a constructive approach and it seems to us that our approach is to first point to the problem, and then to offer solutions to something that we will cultivate and cultivate in the future. There are about 34 prisons in Serbia, if we count prisons in Kosovo and Metohija, which are six. Of the 17, he's a half-opened guy, one's a tightly-closed guy, that's the famous Zabela. We have one institution of a closed type for minors in Valjevo, one nursing home for minors in Kruševec, two institutions of a closed type for men Nis and Sremska Mitrovica, one semi-opened type for women in Pozarevec, four open-label institutions for men, one prison hospital in Belgrade. But if we look at the statistics, besides these six and a few thousand prisoners and detainees in 2000, in 2004, we already had 7,800 and in 2005, 8,181 detainees and he was increasing later. When we talked about the work of the courts and this is something that is observed in recent court practice, everyone pointed to the often unfounded length of detention. It is something that seems to me, now in a positive sense, to change, but what I have repeatedly pointed out to Mrs. Snezani Malovic, we, I think, and then when the proposals of the law of criminal law, in the area of the judiciary, indicated that it was not the ministry's task just to prepare the good text of the law. That is the basis for everything else, but if you don't create preconditions for its good and quality application, if you don't keep monitoring the application and the best law, we'll get what we get. What did we have before, what situation did we have? The situation seems better to me now, but your responsibility as the strongest and main ruling party in Serbia is also greater. For what? It is obvious that neither the judiciary nor the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions nor the law on the enforcement of alternative sanctions, nor the entire judicial system can function well unless the other institutions assist that system are functioning. That's where I think of the police first. If we have reforms in the area of justice, and we have a fallen police force, which has not had any reform, then only the judiciary can't give the results of what it needs to know, because it doesn't have the help of one of the main levers. Same with the D.A.'s office, same with the judiciary. If we were to analyze the judiciary and what kind of path that goes from the indictment act to the verdict of law, then we'd see this series of linkes, the important factors that affect the verdict getting this kind of or that kind of ultimate form. One of the most important traits I've pointed out as a national MP is the judicial experts. We've passed the Law of Judicial Witches, we've also pointed to a thousand of one network of criminogens, where you absolutely know the tariffs, at which price you can get ordered art. It is also in the Law on Prosecution allowed the parties to engage the artist in the process of their choice and to oppose the expert opinion of the other expert, but I have given the then minister of justice an assessment, which I did not want to achieve, that if we re-introduce those who were interested in some criminal-law cases in the system, we have artificially criminalized such cases as the murder of Dade Vujasinovic or the Topcider case which has not yet been solved, or one case which he also received from the international legal art of killing Prime Minister Djindjic, that I am not talking about some other cases of which the public is interested. If, under the light of the public, the court experts of criminal warlocks, imagine what's going on in cases that the public isn't interested in. They are dominus et deus, as the Romans, lord and god would say. That's the way we get to the verdict. Then when a convicted person comes to prison, today we have a situation that most often comes with a court order to report to the office and a verdict. What does it take to record a sociological, psychological, criminological profile of a person? The co-operation of institutions is needed, so the Centre for Social Work, local self-government, all others who will give a clear picture of who comes to your office to support a certain punishment. It is true that until now, for example, there are experts in Zabela, one of them has a school of teaching, one psychologist and one of the Andrews who are involved in training, that is, education of adults. But it's even in that prison that's famous and not important enough. Often there you have a situation where a convict comes only with a verdict and all research data show that convicts give, about their family status, material opportunities, about motives for committing crimes, about the conditions of the environment in which they live, etc., are quite unreliable. That information needs to be obtained in the way that it used to be in the military. You're on your way to military service, and there's already all the information about you and that's perfectly fine. What we should absolutely insist on, it is a continuous, continuous training and training of prison employees. We with this inherited practice, and it seems to us that the mental heritage by our assessment is one of the biggest problems facing our society and which is the most difficult to root out, but simply, employed persons, with full respect for their very difficult and complex work that they do with people who are most often from the criminal environment and with a lot of understanding of their hard work, but the practice so far, this outdated practice has shown that torture does not bring about a better. What is needed, for example, in minors who are in juvenile institutions, jurisprudence homes, etc., for example, is that rich cultural and sports activities, which would last all the time, to reduce criminal measures, to strengthen support, to prevent education from being interrupted because of criminal measures, to make the system of points and rewards objective and visible, to have more programmes for training of life skills and non-violent communication, then, to better cooperate with schools, to have additional control and internal and external and to constantly, I said, educate employees, to give firm guarantees about the prohibition of abuse, humiliation and inhumane treatment of prisoners. Have we ever done this in our practice before? We didn't. What are the results of such lifeless, inadequate treatment of detainees and prisoners? One of the causes of the constant increase in crime and the constant increase in returnees. What we have also insisted on, what we have presented through the amendment, is that, as in many countries that have better regulated this system than we have, they are separated in the reception department by multiple returnees. For what? Multiple returnees, if they meet together in one group and support a punishment together, prisons often become centres for additional training for criminal behavior or for perfecting already advanced criminal behavior, so that multiple returnees often have free training from highly experienced criminals. I believe you will think in a similar way and accept this amendment. In the bill of law, as far as pregnant women, maternity parents and women with children are concerned, all you can predict is that they are holding a prison sentence in separate rooms. In our opinion, it is not only necessary to separate the rooms physically, but in these separate rooms all the necessary conditions should be made possible to the maternity after delivery, medical, hygiene, health, pregnant women and women who raise children. Of course, the law provides well for training programmes, but through the training program we can also set up a series of training, training, additional content such as aggression replacement training, prevention, drug treatment. We have a situation that, say, in Zabela, if I'm not mistaken, now about 400 drug addicts, but the question is, is there an adequate drug rehab program and how successful is it being implemented? Prevention of the treatment of alcoholism. An active job search program. Mediation program, nice behavior. Studying a series of trades. The law also envisioned the study of certain professions, even school education, which is absolutely fine. The auxiliary institutions that need to help, some of them I have cited, and since time has run out, I apologize to you in the chairmanship for overcoming it, and the ministers, in the debate in the principles, I believe that we will further exchange the argument so that we will not only get a good law, but to get a quality application of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1229	Time. Thank you. The People's Messenger Laszlo Varga has the word, and let the Messenger Peter Petrovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1230	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to express our satisfaction over several important facts. First of all, the fact that this set of laws today, and that second set of laws, are likely to be on the agenda tomorrow, tells us that for the first time since 2000 in the area of reform, or in the area of justice or judicial reform, will continue. This has not been the case since 2000, and this continuity will, on the one hand, be personal, since the same person has remained at the head of the ministry, the same person is headed by the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly, the same person will remain at the head of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and I think it is extremely important. Important for the reason that in this way and the success of your work and the success of our work in the next four years will become measurable. Much easier to measure than it was in earlier years. On the other hand, continuity is also conceptual. This time, you are not in the first session of the National Assembly, or with the first set of judicial laws at the National Assembly meeting with amendments to the law on court seats, on judges, on public prosecutors, on the regulation of courts, but on a set of laws that builds on the existing system that has been established over the past few months. It's also one big difference compared to the previous period, to the previous years. What is also encouraging is the fact that within a few days, perhaps ten days, the Serbian judiciary will come out of V.D. a situation in which more than half a decade, as within a few days, I believe, will be elected here in parliament by the president of all Serbia's courts. We've been waiting for that for over half a decade. It's also an important element in this continuity that I was talking about. The fact that these laws, which you have presented and which you will present tomorrow, are on Parliament's agenda are the result of one strategic planning. Last summer, a Strategy for Justice Reform was adopted, after which the Action Plan was adopted, and now, if a man reads or takes a little time and examines the Action Plan, he will see that all these laws are in the Action Plan and that they are the result of one strategic planning that I was talking about. It's also extremely good. Within a few days, the European Commission will publish a screening report for Chapter 23, which is also a very important step in the process of opening negotiations on this most important chapter in the European integration process. If by any chance today we were not in this situation and we were not talking about continuity, but in the opposite situation, which we are used to, then we would certainly not have the possibility, and at least the certainty of opening the negotiations on Chapter 23 by the end of the year or at the latest of the following year. This is how we stand a chance, since in a few days we will see what criteria will be needed to open the negotiations on Chapter 23, and surely what we have done in the past months and what we are doing these days will be one good basis for this action plan, which will result from the screening report, to be as short as possible and as simple as possible to meet. Serbia is a state based on the rule of law, human and minority rights, civil democracy and social justice or social justice. The question arises – what can be the connection between social justice and criminal law, i.e. the laws on the agenda? I'm going to try to establish a connection, and I think that relationship exists. When a state tries to establish social justice, it does so on the one hand in a way that sanctions all of its citizens, who do not respect the laws of their country, who do illegal acts, and then one part of this state's tendency. On the other hand, when the state establishes social justice, it tries to help people who are in some kind of difficulty because of social or other living circumstances. Unfortunately, the past election campaign has assured us that citizens are extremely unhappy with the balance that exists between sanctioning perpetrators and helping certain groups, who need help, but who, without any restrictions or conditions, receive social assistance. Therefore, our goal in achieving this goal is an extremely important fact that a law on the enforcement of alternative sanctions and the establishment of a balance between helping all people who need help in this country, on the one hand, between sanctioning all those people, citizens in this country who do not respect the law. What am I talking about? This law, among other things, extends the possibility of applying criminal sanctions in public interest, and you have spoken of it in detail. You've given statistics that are really encouraging, if we look at trends. I think there's one significant space for these statistics to improve in the coming years. In fact, I think it's a little 250, 260 criminal sanctions of public interest work against the country with seven and a few million inhabitants. That part of criminal law should be one of the pillars on which this social justice, which I was talking about, would be established, but in no case will it be enough. What is our goal, and of course is not the topic of today's agenda, but it is extremely connected to the topic of today's agenda, is the introduction of restrictions on multiple returnees to obtain social assistance. I think it should be the second pillar of this establishment of social justice that I was talking about. On the third hand, it is not really the subject of criminal law, it is the introduction of a system of public works, and it is also related to the issue of social assistance. If these three pillars, which I was talking about, were to be placed in place, the citizens of this country would surely be much more pleased. They would not object that the state is too tolerant of perpetrators or perpetrators of criminal acts and certainly would not tell us that the state is too generous, not of course in terms of the amount, but that it is too generous because it allows without restrictions on people who are multiple returnees to receive social assistance. This must be a task for the next period. But what's important is that one important link by passing the Law on the enforcement of alternative sanctions is put in place in this concept that I was talking about. You explained in detail why sanctions work in the public interest is good and all other alternative sanctions, I would not repeat. What might be good at this point and it may be our expectation that you give us one explanation or one map of the way in which and in which procedure these legal persons will be elected who will have the opportunity to participate in this programme. I think it would be important not to us, but to the potential interested. On the other hand, tell us a few words about... I'm sure you've got some kind of procedure to think about. On the third hand, you can tell us a few words about the deadlines. I think that would be important for interested legal persons, and in any case to the public. All of this I was talking about were arguments for support and for these laws that are on the agenda today, and for those laws that will be on the agenda tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, and come from the area of justice. So I'd like to repeat, and conclude with that, that for all these bill proposals you have the support of the parliamentary group of the Duke Hungarian Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1231	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Let the Parliament of People prepare Vesna Martinovic. I'm just asking my colleagues not to sign up anymore, we've got everything in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1232	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say a few words about each of these laws that are before us today, I would like to say next, to take the opportunity to say that this morning the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government supported these drafts of the law unanimously. On behalf of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, I would like to begin by saying that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all these three draft laws in principle for a number of reasons. It must be one of the basic reasons why these bill proposals that have come before us today are very favourable and positive assessments from the competent professional bodies of the Council of Europe, because these laws simply imitate our legislation by the legislation of the European Union that we seek. We should keep this in mind when we talk about these laws today, and also that we are expected in a very recent future and so-called chapters 23 and 24, which will be discussed, and surely these laws are one of the reasons, and those future ones, which we will have on the agenda both tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, as well as those others that, according to my knowledge, the Ministry of Justice and preparation. It is all in the intention and desire and obligation to make our legislation not only criminally-legal but also civil and legal and administratively-legislative in the law of the European Union. When it comes to these two laws, the Law on Criminal Penalty and the Law on the Enforcement of Outlaws and Measures, the Ministry has drawn up two existing laws from one existing law and this other law has come out as a special law under this first joint law that previously solved this issue. What is important for the JS parliamentary group is that we have in the draft law on the execution of criminal sanctions of a new institute, as the minister said, and in the law is well explained, and that is the judge for the execution of criminal sanctions as a special judge in senior courts, who will look after and care for all how sanctions are carried out and on the protection of justice by the Constitution, guaranteed and other laws by all convicted persons who are addressed to the maintenance of these penalties. This law sets out the role and jurisdiction of these judges for the execution of criminal sanctions, and I don't think that they should be discussed in particular, but should only support the ministry's efforts to resolve this matter in an appropriate manner. I'd rather keep your attention on this second law, which is the law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures. He is very important because, as statistics say, he has an increased number of perpetrators of criminal acts, but particularly who are sanctioned by various laws, especially those, to use this term, easier crimes, or where less time limits are provided for perpetrators of such crimes. Through this law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, we as a society want to help these perpetrators no longer do so. If they simply understood that at some point their weaknesses, indecisiveness, or I don't know what they did, and by referring to law enforcement institutions, they might be in a worse position to come into a situation where, in association and exchange experiences with the perpetrators of serious crimes, which are at the expense of criminal measures in law enforcement offices, they would come into such a situation as to re-emerge from these institutions. On the other hand, as we have heard in the opening presentation of Mr. Minister, and the state in this way has a great benefit because it reduces the cost of staying in these institutions, and it also benefits that they through public and other works support and their penalties as alternative penalties, while at the same time helping not only themselves but also society. That's why we're going to support this law as a parliamentary group. When it comes to the third law on the agenda today, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure, we would especially commend this improvement in the wording in the sense that the presence of perpetrators of criminal offences is prohibited where they have committed a crime. The minister mentioned sports events that unfortunately made this country and this society in many places where certain criminal behaviours that come under the influence of the law take place. It is precisely the bearers of such behaviour that certain returnees, people who have done the same or similar crimes in sports not fields, but at theatre. I don't think it's mentioned here, but it's probably in a broader explanation and that's meant to prohibit the presence of certain criminals, such as public gatherings, discotheques, restaurants, etc., where various crimes, violent behavior, certain acts in the field of sexual crime, etc. So I think that this is how it was well seen in the existing law that it was, that I don't say lack, a certain lack, this is how we supplement these members of the law that regulate that area. It is also well seen that the plea of guilt is accepted by what the practice has shown, which is that a mutual recognition of guilt can now be made in this new law by the end of the main search which is very positive, because this will certainly give certain results that many who are in the process until the end of the main investigation, although they did not initially accept a plea agreement and thus also reduce the costs of both judicial and other proceedings, and that the perpetrators of such crimes in agreement with prosecutors accept certain guilt and normally accept certain sanctions. I would once again commend the ministry for the efforts it has made to present to us, not only these three laws and tomorrow five, but also this one that works on other laws and on behalf of the JS parliamentary group once again, we will give support to these laws and vote for them in the voting day and when it is in principle and in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1233	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Vesna Martinovic, let MP Meso Omerovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1234	The respected presidency, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, we all know that they are different grounds for criminal sanctions. Some criminal sanctions are pronounced for committing the most brutal and brutal crimes, some for crimes committed in traffic, and some for violations committed as the mildest, unauthorized forms of conduct. However, if we want to know what state we live in and what civilization level we have achieved as a state, and as a society, we need to know what the attitude of the state is to those persons to whom some criminal sanctions or measures have been imposed. In that sense, I think two things are very important. First, whether basic human rights and fundamental human dignity are respected in this criminal sanctions procedure, not only by those who are convicted, or those who are subject to criminal sanctions, but also by members of their families who are very often suffering the consequences and remain out of sight. The second thing, whether all convicted persons have or do not have the same treatment, regardless of their and their personal properties, such as sex, religion, nationality, but I must stress, and political belonging, so in that regard, whether they have or do not share the same treatment. The enforcement of criminal sanctions in addition to a judicial verdict in this regard is in some way the crown of criminal proceedings and, if there are errors in the execution of criminal sanctions, good laws and effective criminal proceedings and professional judges fall into the water. The execution of criminal sanctions is a mirror of all of us, primarily of course the Government and the Resolute Ministry, but also of all of us who live in Serbia. That is why these two laws are important on the agenda today. I must say that it is a noticeable engagement of domestic experts, but also of experts from the Council of Europe, and I suppose that it is in this connection and that the control of the execution of criminal sanctions by the National Assembly is in place, which I am particularly pleased that now I do not think only the tabloids will be able to closely monitor the execution of criminal sanctions, but we also will be able to do so by the MPs. I agree with the minister that the introduction of a new institute for the execution of criminal sanctions is a shift in the protection of convicted persons, but I still have a small dilemma and I hope we can discuss it further. In the light of the proposed laws, you say that the introduction of a judge's institute for the execution of criminal sanctions will not cause additional costs and that the current number of judges of senior courts is quite sufficient to comply with this provision of the law. By contrast, I really think that the existing number of judges of senior courts is not enough and not only not enough, but also the extent of the affairs and responsibilities that have been added and extended to them lately without any particular order and system, I fear that they will not be able to exercise not only the existing powers and but the additional powers that are prescribed by this law. I think that, with the most beautiful wishes, both yours and ours and all the judges of the higher courts, they will not be able to safely look after the execution of criminal sanctions as prescribed by this law, but in order to meet the norm, they will no longer be able to resolve these matters, in order to fulfill what is form, without being essentially controlled by the execution of criminal sanctions. In that sense, I really think that it is necessary to increase the number of judges of senior courts and I really advocate it, which will certainly cause additional financial resources, but every rule of law and the rule of law costs, they are not free. If we are truly defined for this, then we are obliged to finance the construction of the fragile foundations of the rule of law, as we all wish together to be Serbia. The second thing that causes my dilemma is a list of 26 different sublegal acts that the government and the resolution ministry, or the minister, are due to deliver in the next six months. Somewhere, experience teaches us that whenever the executive authority keeps to itself a huge and extensive normative activity can lead to this, I'm not saying that it necessarily does, but it can lead to divorce and relativation of legal provisions and that it creates an untransparent forest of regulations in which even those who are required to apply those regulations will not comply, and even less those to which these regulations apply. In addition, I think that a single infringement was committed in the procedure itself, because, in accordance with the resolution of this National Assembly on Legislative Policy of 25 June 2013, all sublaws were to be accompanied by the proposed laws, and this was not done. For the very end, I would also like to refer to the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure in the work that applies in the way of using funds paid by suspects in the event of a delay in criminal prosecution where I think it would be very convenient and useful to explicitly foresee the possibility that local self-government units should also be reported in public competitions, and this is not explicitly envisaged by the proposed amendment. The difficult financial opportunities from the budget of local self-government first delete the items concerning the financing of humanitarian, social, cultural, etc., the need that occurred especially last year when your government proposed before, and this Assembly passed the Law on the financing of local self-government, when all municipalities and cities in the middle of the financial year were left with no significant financial resources, and the first items concerning social, health, cultural needs were found on the write-off list, so many schools, homes of health, etc. were left without the necessary funding. In previous days, we also had opportunities in this congregation hall to hear a lot of stories about how harmful privatisations have significantly affected the functioning of local self - government. That is why I think it is important to foresee the possibility that units of local self-government can participate in the competitions that the Commission will call. For the very end, we suggest that you consider the possibility of adding Article 5 to a new member where it will be extremely possible for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to grant additional funds from this public income fund in the event of the need for treatment of children abroad without competition, and for the purpose of funding in whole or at least partial treatment of children abroad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1235	Thank you. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1236	I thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. Dear fellow ministers, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, as the authorised representative of the SDPS, I will point out a number of important facts regarding the two laws of three, as in this set of judicial laws that we are discussing today in principle. So, I'm going to talk about the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the draft law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions. In his presentation, the minister really explained very extensively and in detail the newspapers that are coming to us and which are offered by these bill proposals, which I believe will be in the day of voting in the highest number and adopted. I would remind and repeat the importance above all of this institute of judges for the execution of criminal sanctions. I don't think I'm going to go too far if I say it's a historic step when it comes to the introduction of a institute like this in this area, which seems, of course, to senior courts. Because the current practice, what we had as some kind of judicial protection of convicted persons, and through the conduct of the administrative dispute, led to certain shortcomings and problems. It is also the witnesses of this law itself, but by prescribing a special judge for execution, we believe in the SDPS, we will establish much stronger, much stronger and more effective protection. Why would I say that? Because this proposed law really lists a certain role and competence of the organization and the entire so-called. a procedural framework for handling. As it is a new institute, and the jurisdiction of the judge is relatively limited. I would like to remind you in this segment of my exposure that it is a matter of protecting the right to appeal against the detainees and of the procedure required for judicial protection of the convicted. Judges for execution will visit institutions in their so-called territory at least once every four months. the local authorities, will discuss with the convicted and inform on how their rights are exercised, i.e. potential threats to their rights. This constitutional and judicial protection, which exists in the current law, was not an effective way of protecting it, since it is often limited only to the control of the legality of the part called administrative acts. Therefore, the judge will have more jurisdiction than the administrative court. But I don't think we should sneak in here. We shouldn't think that just introducing this institute will solve all the problems. So we need to pay particular attention to how it will work in practice. We are also witnessing in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that we have a whole series of laws that we are passing, and whose implementation, whose application, or the famous word implementation somewhere, is screwed up at some end and then a few months pass, and we only have a dead letter on paper from the law. Therefore, I do not believe that if, first of all, the Commission for the Control of Criminal Sanctions, which gets much greater importance and authority, does not do its job, so that discipline proceedings against the warden can also be initiated in the exercise of supervision. in front of the disciplinary board of directors, if they find that there is a breach of labour obligation. I'd like to mention something that isn't even, I'd say, even familiar enough to our general public. This application of the law seems particularly to be the subject of what the existing parliamentary commission is dealing with to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. We have been in the past work for some year and a half, through experience and co-operation, I have to admit very successful, with the Department of Criminal Sanctions at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have witnessed that, by working together through the Protector of the Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have seen a good number of irregularities, which are later also taxed, which are now being corrected through this law and where we are going to have, and I want to believe that I am also a much better state and a much better situation when we look at this segment of society, if we exclude what is most important, and these are finance and material aspects. That's what's going on in all segments of society. And it's going down in all the spheres. Then you can imagine for yourself how difficult this material and financial situation is, first of all, when it comes to law enforcement institutions, or criminal correctional institutions or prisons, is popularly said in our people. What I would like to mention when it comes to this first law, is that this law sets out provisions that regulate the enforcement of alternative sanctions and they become subject to a special law, which I will talk about a little bit later. That formulation – much more work in the public interest, and much less punishment for easier crimes and violations, will be made possible by these laws that are in front of us today and which we, I am deeply sure, will adopt in the voting day. A very important new provision on the notification of the victim's crime, which is in line with EU legal assets, has been introduced, according to us from the SDPS. It's something we often call upon. In this case, and through this proposal, the Bureau informs the victim of a criminal offence about the release or escape of a convicted person who has been sentenced to prison for a crime against life and the body and against sexual freedom both against marriage and family. The notification shall be delivered to the victim, if it so requests and if the risk assessment indicates the need for preventive protection of the victim. Since this proposed law reduces social exclusion, and the minister himself talked a lot about the risks of return, I would like to point out some of the provisions that I would like and I think we can step up, I would say, and some logical service in those provisions of the laws that exist, which we are missing, which is to combine that service for social work and treatment. Why do I say that? Because it is a long time ago, we can say, in 1989, the EU adopted the Charter of Social Rights, which established a minimum of social norms and rights that must be respected in order for a certain member to become a full member of the EU. So this is one of the conditions for joining the EU. For this reason, during the term of EU candidate status, in this case Serbia is at the beginning of that status, issues of the social policy system and the work of institutions in which the planning and standardisation of rights is achieved, i.e. through the provision of professional work in this system are also discussed. In this regard, even the International definition of social work, which defines a profession that promotes social needs, solves problems in human relations, training and liberates individuals, with the aim of increasing prosperity. Practicing the theories of human behavior and social systems, social work is the segment that intervenes in places where people interact with their environments. The objectives of social work are particularly set out: to assist the involvement of marginalised socially excluded groups, displaced, vulnerable and risk-exposed groups of people, which was also discussed by the minister, working with individuals, or families, organisations and communities, in order to train them for later self-involvement in society, that is to say, to address their own problems. The principles of human rights and social justice have become global standards for business education. In this regard, the issue of the current problem of the training of expert staff dealing with social work and social problems of individuals, families, or local communities, is also raised to a level throughout the country. The proposal for this law provides for the types of services in the institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions in Articles 19 and 20. According to the content of Article 20. The bill, as well as the nature of the activities carried out in the treatment services, is clearly part of something called social work. It is indisputable to carry out both an evaluation and support against the convicted person in order to prevent the recurrence of the crime. All these activities referred to in Article 20. The draft law by its attributes and to a significant extent are the activities of social work. As a result, I think it would be clearer that working in this service requires professional and quality, qualified and social workers, among other things, to enable their expertise to function qualityly and thus to increase the capacity of the service to carry out and carry out their jobs properly and meet their purpose of forming. What I would like to emphasise in this second part of my presentation, because I will speak about the segment of the institution of treatment for social work and treatment, when details are discussed, because I have just submitted an amendment to this Article 19, so I think that through the discussion on the board, and in the plenary debate on details we will come up with the most meaningful solutions that I think the promoter is ready to do. What I would especially like to emphasise and point out as a great value, something that I must admit in some previous practice was not a good connection, good co-operation between a very important constitutional institution like the Guardian of Citizens and such sensitive institutions, i.e. segments of our society which are administrations to enforce criminal sanctions. The co-operation of the Ministry and the Administration with the Citizens' Protector has more than improved over the past few years, and as a result, finally, and the recommendations of the Citizens' Protector, we have a good part of the provisions in this proposed law and, more importantly, as a result of this cooperation and successful interaction between the Citizens' and the Ministry of Justice through the Department of Criminal Sanctions, we have an improvement in the housing capacity of the Belgrade County Prison, where I would remind fellow Members of the public, that a special room for visits to the spouse, children or other close persons without the presence of staff. During last 2013 more facilities were adapted not only in Belgrade, but also in Sremska Mitrovica, Nis, Cačka, Negotin at the Penalty of Juvenile Persons in Valjevo. Despite a decrease in regrets, the number of persons serving the sentence through amnesty institutions remains overrun. On several occasions, the minister spoke through a public debate that was both professional and general, let me call it that because I am not a lawyer, it was about long-term effects and this law through discharge. Namely, I will remind you once again, prison capacity in Serbia is currently 9,300 people, until recently, the minister knows it better than I do, 7,500. There are 10,200 persons on the maintenance of the sentence. So, who knows math can see the difference. It is little known that prisons are overbooked in Europe. The minister often takes an example of Italy where there are 35,000 people, there are not 3,000 more than in Serbia, but 35,000 more. So there are 75,000 prisoners in Italy, and the capacity is 35,000. Not everything is great or great in some countries that we often see when it comes to something called standardisation or European norms. We must continue to work on reconstruction and renovating the prison but also strengthen this system of alternative sanctions. What is particularly important, I would say, from the European Commission's 2013 report on Serbia's progress in 2013 all but even those irregularities that the European Commission has seen and the Department of Criminal Sanctions have literally removed. I would like to remind you of what all this has been done except for the strategy for the development of the criminal sanctions system in the period from 2013 to 2020, which was done in December of the month. We also have this set of laws that we're considering today. The Amnesty Act has a direct effect on prison overbooking. Changes to the Criminal Code have introduced the possibility of parole. The number of alternative sanctions has been increased, which the minister spoke of through the Institute of Home Detention with electronic supervision and socially beneficial work. Prisoners in three main prisons in Serbia, which are Pojarec, Nis and Sremska Mitrovica, have the opportunity to offer them professional training through pilot programmes, but it is necessary to continue to make further efforts to improve the conditions for life, healthcare and adequate therapy programmes for prisoners. Of course, it requires a lot more money, a lot more financial, material separation and, of course, the demand and expansion of what we know, it's called systematicization, and we know that we have laws that we have banned new employment so that these are the problems we face. Alternative sanctions should be imposed to a greater extent. Furthermore, in my opinion, there is no sufficient number of prison personnel who are in direct contact with the prisoners. So we miss the guards and all those who would have direct contact with the prisoners in prison. He would once again look back and remind himself that unfortunately because of financial and material problems, we still have some problems. I think when we have problems, if I've praised the ministry for these 14 minutes and praised the law, we shouldn't run away from the fact that there are still some prisoners who don't make it impossible for them to spend time out of their cells during the day. That a large part of the county prison, Mr. Milan Stevovic knows best, is still used for the housing of families of current and former prison workers. These are the big problems we face and which we should not hide from the public. Unfortunately, there are convicted persons with mental disorders who remain in regular accommodation facilities. So, don't get me wrong, the people who are distracted by development are with healthy people who support prison sentences in the same rooms. That's not good. The last thing I think is bad and that we have to change in the next period after leaving prison the former convict is left to himself and there is no social programme or social integration programme for him. Just a few more sentences on the draft law on enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures to take advantage of all the time I have at my disposal. I would like to remind that EU countries have this system of alternative sanctions and measures developed for a very long time and that it has been discussed with us, and this practice in Serbia has highlighted the need to adopt more precise provisions governing this area in order to fully demonstrate all the benefits of this kind of punishment. There has been the most logical and purposeful solution to separate itself from this law that we are first considering, and thus it can be achieved to amend a special law that regulates the procedure for the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and the measures imposed in criminal proceedings, and through this law which we are discussing and the judgments imposed in the criminal proceedings. The positive effects of what we will have through the application of these sanctions are what should be repeated over and over again, especially in the period of crisis and the situation in which we live today. It's a more efficient sanctioning of the perpetrators, a reduction in the number of persons in institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, and this is a cheaper execution of sanctions. In his opening statement, the minister also gave us precise information on how much it costs, so this corrects the functioning of the convicted without disfellowshipping from his social environment. He can be saved both his work and so on, however, what is also important can also facilitate his reintegration, thus reducing the so-called. a criminal infection. Budgetary savings are huge. Over the past year, more than 60 million dinars, as I understood the minister, were not opening the fourteenth office today, which he was talking about in an opening statement for alternative sanctions in Serbia. We heard by the end of the year we'll have nine more of these offices. So we're going to round up this system that's very important. Finally, let me say that the MPs of the SDPS in voting day will support a set of these three laws that are on the agenda that we are discussing today in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1237	Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1238	Dear Madam President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will undoubtedly support a full set of judicial laws we are discussing and not only today but we will discuss tomorrow and probably the day after tomorrow and the next few days until we complete the debate in full. At least because of those who are following this public debate that it is about amendments to certain judicial laws that require so-called. emergency or necessary changes. First of all, because the Republic of Serbia has made commitments towards the EU, obligations related to Chapters 23 and 24. The commitments taken by the government in an earlier meeting with Prime Minister Ivica Dacic continue with the government headed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, with intensive adherence exclusively to the provisions of the Association Agreement. Of course, these changes that are necessary will not stop the process of the final establishment of the legislative system in the best possible way, which is the adoption of comprehensive laws, so I would ask you, Mr. Minister, that in this direction, in addition to the fact that you pointed out that the government, which is indeed so, especially the relevant ministry, analyzes the need for the adoption of comprehensive laws, that this need has already come from the caselaw itself. In particular, when we talk about the Code of Criminal Procedure, a public prosecutor's investigation has brought about a number of shortcomings, problems in court practice, problems facing judges and courts, problems facing prosecutors, both in the material, financial sense of words and in the sense of the existence of adequate procedural and legal solutions. Of course, after a comprehensive analysis, a comprehensive, clear and precise Code of Criminal Procedure will be joined in this regard. What today is the subject of our debate are three amendments to the law - Laws on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the Act on the enforcement of extra-conductive measures and amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. If we observe comparatively, the ZIKS, therefore the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, as well as the Law on the enforcement of non-conductive sanctions and measures, we will come to a unique conclusion, which is that these two legal acts have the same purpose. First of all, special and general prevention with the aim of resociating and reintegration of convicted in society. Convicted persons, after a repressive treatment that starts through coercion, and the coercion starts from the expression of adequate criminal sanctions under the law, must be allowed to return to society by accepting basic and elementary moral values, to form their own code of ethics, to return to their families, to their environment, to their places of living and working. In what way? First of all, by raising the capacity of criminal and correctional institutions, district prisons and other bodies and bodies as part of the establishment of criminal and correctional institutions defined by the provisions of this law. What is very important is to point out that through the permitted measures of repression, and that repression undoubtedly exists, because the resociation and enforcement of repressive treatments within the limits where it is allowed and where it is allowed, must be respected by persons convicted in criminal and correctional institutions, respect for their fundamental rights, which are primarily guaranteed by the Constitution, then guaranteed by international conventions, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and all other international legal acts and other acts under the positive legal rules of our system. When we talk about newspapers in these legal acts, what is repeatedly stated here is that a qualitative shift in this legal solution to the application of the judge's institute for the execution of criminal sanctions. Mr. Minister, since a judge for the execution of criminal sanctions appears by functional jurisdiction as an individual judge, according to real jurisdiction as a judge of a higher court, and according to local jurisdiction as a judge of the court where a criminal and correctional institution in which a convicted person maintains a criminal penalty, I have heard one comment, that senior courts, allegedly, do not have the potential and do not have a human resources solution. It can't be accepted in any way, because it doesn't actually stand. The reminders are that, until the law on the regulation of courts was passed recently, the district courts later had very little jurisdiction, especially in civil-legal matter where they had virtually no business. Only now, since the adoption of a new law on the regulation of courts, has the circle of jurisdiction and the scope of cases carried out by a senior court been extended, so it is doubtless that there will be no additional burden on judges who have little to do anyway to commit to this task. Why? Simply because at least in senior courts there must be narrowly specialised judges with long-term work experience, who, through education that must exist, have to be introduced, will be trained for such a job as this law requires them to do. What's very important to point out is the fact that these judges have a huge degree of responsibility. Again, for reasons that are more than well known to the professional public, the judges for the execution of criminal sanctions in the proceedings appear all the principles of a procedural legal nature present in the procedural and legal laws and the principle of double-stageness, bearing in mind that the decision of judges for the execution of criminal sanctions may be brought before an extrajudicial court. Furthermore, the principle of contradiction through the implementation of evidence, by allowing a convicted party active in the proceedings to propose evidence. Such evidence shall be carried out and, on the basis of these evidence, an adequate decision shall be taken, not in the form of an error, as stated in the legal text, but in the form of a solution. Of course, that capacity is the responsibility of the judge for the execution of criminal sanctions and how large it is precisely for these reasons that I have stated. But for the sake of the public, we should also point out what is very important. The judge for the execution of criminal sanctions is not the first instance always, but his trial appears only after other means have been exhausted, and that is to file a complaint to the director of the correctional office, then to the director of the administration, present here, and then, of course, the right to judicial protection implies the rise of legal protection requests of convicted persons at the level of courts, and these are in a specific case of higher courts. As regards the provisions of the laws of both and other, both the ZIKS and the Law on the enforcement of non-conductive sanctions and measures, it should be pointed out that, in addition to saving as one of the objectives of reducing the burden by budget, and yet for the proper informing of the public, non-conductive sanctions are not imposed on those convicted of the most serious crimes. They can't get the benefits, they can't get the benefits they're bound to support the punishment, so to speak. Home prison. I can't always be under electronic surveillance. The degree of social danger, as well as the qualification of a crime, especially the severity of criminal acts, suggests that these cannot be persons who are the perpetrators of those most serious crimes. However, in both situations and in accordance with the provisions of both law and law, the aim is unique – to prevent relapse, prevent return, enable the number of perpetrators to be reduced, and that those perpetrators of criminal acts who are convicted can be returned to society as soon as possible and be useful members of society. There's been a lot of debate here about how to do that. Well, exactly on the basis of the financial resources received through these savings. Investments need to be made in both criminal and correctional institutions, their material, technical and any other equipment, in particular education and the raising of the professional capacities of employees in these institutions. Mr. Minister, you pointed out one fact in a newspaper, and that newspaper represents the new status of employees in criminal and correctional institutions, which are now receiving a category of officials. This very fact raises their responsibility, especially in the case of unlawful action, where there is a possibility that the qualification of such illegal activity may also be a criminal offence of abuse of the official position or abuse of the position of the responsible person. Of course, this and how it becomes not only a responsibility, but also the obligation of all employees in criminal and correctional institutions to do their job in the best possible way. In order to carry out it in the best possible way, it is not enough to raise that capacity precisely in criminal and correctional institutions. It is necessary that those institutions that co-operate with criminal and correctional institutions have the same professional capacity, primarily the social work centre, as the custody body, as well as other institutions, because, in this law, and I hope that the sublegal act will be resolved, leave out something that is a trustee's obligation, and the trustee's obligation, in addition to submitting reports, as systematised, implies that in this report the trustee informs the person to whom he submits the report whether he has communicated, has made contacts, what types with the custody authority, other institutions, especially specialised institutions that can be helpful in the resociation of the perpetrators of criminal offences. One of the newspapers that is not mentioned here is that when a prison sentence is suspended, one who has already been convicted and is found to be in custody of a prison sentence cannot demand a stay for a new sentence imposed. Of course it's one of the positive changes in these texts of the law. When we talk about the Code of Criminal Procedure, we have one great need all of us together, and especially the professional public, to systematicize all those types of illegal activities into the law. The solutions provided for in this Code are excellent, above all, that only a court can now order any kind of collection of electronic data, as well as personality data, to avoid arbitraryness, arbitration and any other phenomenon that is a negative phenomenon for society. However, what is necessary, Mr. Minister, I hope that your ministry will take important steps in this direction, it is that the law is complemented by what has remained as a single kind of void so far. Namely, we have committed decriminalization of the crime scene of libel, which is good, which is one democratic progress, but we have also allowed through all kinds of information, all means of information to appear something that must not appear, that the conduct of proceedings, especially criminal proceedings, is done through the press, through pillars in the press, that information that cannot be published, that information is published, and even evidence that is linked to the pre-crisis procedure, to the investigation process. It is very important to systematise the measure to prevent this kind of abuse, and especially the abuse that involves the impact on the judiciary, the impact on witnesses, the impact on all actors of criminal proceedings. In any event, it cannot be accepted that, before the indictment is brought into force or before a first-degree ruling, regardless of the transparency of the work of the courts, it is possible for the public to be informed of the information and facts which may be exclusively subject to the assessment of the courts in the case itself. We have a situation that, through unauthorized tone listening, through unauthorized listening to other people's conversations, unauthorized shootings, many, especially public figures, are particularly affected by officials, individuals who perform both public functions and all that means significant places in the system of state apparatus, or the Republic of Serbia. Such a protected good, and a protected good is unauthorized recording and listening, must deserve adequate criminal and criminal treatment, which means that crimes involving precisely this kind of illegal act must be sanctioned by far more severe criminal sanctions, in order to prevent the occurrences that have occurred in the caselaw through judicial judgments. The SPS parliamentary group shall have the knowledge that the courts have already made judicial decisions which, above all, have been incriminating actions relating to unauthorized tones of listening, hearings, etc., have experienced a judicial epilogue, to establish in evidence a criminal liability and the perpetrators of such criminal acts or of a misdemeanour. Of course, it takes experience and lessons to get those who take such illegal actions, so that they will never take them again. But I believe that this well-intentioned suggestion and how significant it is that both the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure be completed by what means criminal protection and such behaviour. Finally, I would like to point out that all this is stated, both in the texts of the proposed laws, and what has been said here today in the debate has already been realised in practice. I am proud to point out that Uzice, the city from which I come, has received a trustee's office for the execution of extravagant sanctions and measures. It is not the only city in Serbia and should not be alone, all cities where there are higher courts with their territorial authority should have such offices and, of course, trust services in the administration with trust offices, according to the territorial jurisdiction of senior courts, must show full results in their work. Through monitoring, through control of the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, I am convinced that in practice it has already started in an adequate way, but I am even more confident that these offices and the profession must be done and invested much more, in order for the professional capacity and everything that implies proper access to such work to be made possible in the best possible way. Once again, since there will be plenty of time to discuss these issues, I underline that the SPS parliamentary group will support a full set of judicial laws for all of these reasons that I have pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1239	The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1240	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, proposed amendments to the law, as well as new legislative proposals in this set of judicial laws on the agenda, are extremely important for our criminal legislation and for continuity in the reforms implemented by the Ministry of Justice over the past two years. I will briefly comment on the proposal to amend and supplement the applicable Code of Criminal Procedure, or one supplement relating to the extent to which a criminal offence is prevented, in particular in the case of a criminal act of violence at a sports event or in a public meeting. It's a ban on visiting a certain place. This measure is not a newspaper. It existed in one of the earlier Codes of Criminal Procedure, and I believe it was left out for no great reason. However, since there is unfortunately an escalation of violence at sports events, we have the perpetrators of these crimes who are largely returnees, or return to the scene of crime and take their place again in the stands. By restoring the ban on visiting a certain place, it seems preventive of the perpetrators of a crime and it literally does not lead to the temptation to commit a crime again. As regards the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the draft law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, it is the legal proposals resulting from the development strategy of the criminal sanctions enforcement system. These bill proposals follow EU trends and pay particular attention to the resociation, reintegration of convicted persons, where more than 60% of sanctions were carried out by alternative sanctions. One of the alternative sanctions in France is a financial settlement, in Austria is temporary probation, in Italy is police surveillance, and in Portugal is weekend detention. One of the alternative sanctions that we have – working in the public interest, where the defendant is most simply offered whether he wants to choose to work in the public interest or wants to go to jail. In order for this kind of sanctions to be carried out, it is important that there is a consent of the accused, that it is a work that will not harm his dignity and that there is co-operation with public companies, where the defendants would carry out this sanction. A criminal code is prescribed when there is an obsolescence of the execution of a sentence, which is a danger, because there is an overcrowding of prisons, but alternative sanctions remove such fear. We've had trouble sentenceing the prison and the defendant's waiting for an invitation to go to criminal punishment, and while he's waiting for the call to come to an obscenity of execution. This way this will not happen because there will be a trustee, who will make sure that the defendant executes his sentence. When we talk about the overviolence of prison in Serbia, I would like to make an example of the district prison in Novi Sad, which is currently located, as I have seen, 444 people deprived of freedom while the capacity is 304. Only about 700 alternative sanctions have been imposed in Serbia so far, and I think that is not enough, prison sentences are over-expressed, and too many judges have used it to be the only way to punish. The minister noted how much Serbia's state costs one prison day and how much alternative sanctions are saved for the state of Serbia. Many have asked me, does this mean that when someone commits a crime, when we adopt these laws, that someone will not be punished. No, that someone will be punished, but by another kind of sanctions, because working in the public interest is a punishment because someone works without compensation and under the supervision of the trustees. These are the alternative sanctions that need to be mentioned as much as possible and the judge can impose this alternative sentence only for minor crimes and criminal acts. The rise in criminality has led to the burden of prison institutions. The punishment for prison doesn't bring about the desired effect, because we have a person who has to leave work, has to leave school, the impact of a prison environment, which is not small, so most cases happen that a person who's in prison makes certain contacts, connects, so when they come out together, they do new crimes. Contrary to the negative effects, the positive side of alternative sanctions for the state is free work for society, but reducing the social Stigmatisation of the accused, because in our people it is not the same if someone was in prison or was in prison or was working in the public interest. That's why the defendant is less marked, easier to find after employment. I believe that the most important thing, which is achieved by alternative sanctions, is that there is no return of the defendants, because the person who is in prison adapts to conditions and environments and rarely gets out of an institution where the prison is maintained. It's so-called. a criminal infection. On the contrary, there is no going to prison outside of government sanctions, but rather the pedagogical treatment of the trustees and the work on rehabilitation of the accused. In our system, I believe that there is insufficient activity directed through the socialization of convicted persons and that is contrary to international standards under which there is an obligation to carry out criminal sanctions, to educate them, to instruct them to support them before firing from the institution. The most important programme is for the defendant who is making a confidant, which aims to prevent the turning of the criminal charge and to reduce that rate of return. He's going back to that social reintegration. My colleagues have already mentioned that the law on the execution of criminal sanctions has introduced a new institute. It's a system of court, not so far administrative surveillance. The legal proposal defines the judge's conduct for execution, and I believe that judges will take maximum care to protect the rights of convicted persons. I hope that the proposed laws and implementation of new legal institutes will help us reduce the number of prisoners, above all to reduce the number of returnees and reduce the number of crimes in Serbia. I also regret that we had not developed a system of alternative sanctions before, because there would be far fewer people in prison affected by prisoners, would affect that environment and not come out by being already known in criminal circles with contacts and relationships, but in a home prison they would be surrounded by families and they would be able to resuscitate. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the laws and reforms conducted by the justice ministry in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1241	We're moving on to the speaker list. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1242	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, representatives of the Justice Ministry, I will pay attention to the law on amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure in my presentation, since I am limited in time. In fact, I would not comment on those technical changes provided for by this law. In the first place, I would be dealing with the essence, and I do not think that such changes and additions are merely technical, as stated by certain MPs. I think that these changes and additions, first of all I mean the changes and additions of this CAP, have two very good solutions, even more excellent, but I'm not going to exaggerate in praises, and I think I'm having an unsatisfactory solution. Well, according to what's good, I'll leave it to the end. Namely, I am not a supporter, the chairman, if you can't, I can't hear the proposed solution to ask the Minister of Justice about the way in which the funds were made available, which were obtained due to the delay of the crime. It is true that the bill provides that the final decision on this is to be made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but let's be realistic and say that the government will only nominate what the minister of justice proposes, because it is not realistic to expect that, in addition to all the things that the government is dealing with, which are just about to deal with, because these things are just coming, will be put into one question, and this is to which the funds will be allocated to the payment of the person, and those who have practically admitted the criminal act and paid the penalty for it in the form of payment of financial funds to humanitarian organisations. Speaking of this, the Department of Justice does not decide how to use fines that are pronounced in criminal proceedings. We can be formalists as much as we want and however we want it to be, but between the fines in criminal proceedings and the penalty, in terms of delaying prosecution, only the user differs, the result of the defendant is different, in terms of whether he will be considered convicted or not. However, in both cases, it is the judicial, judicial authority that has to decide whether the level of fines, fines and also whether they will apply at all or may not be applied. If so, then I don't think it's a good solution that in two, seemingly formally different, and essentially almost the same, cases are asked by different entities. Either both cases of how these funds are used will be asked by the judicial authority or in both cases will be asked by the executive authority, so the minister. However, I must say I understand the legislator's intensity. It's true, in some ways we need to centralize all of this, actually centralize the system, and it's for one better control, for more efficient purposes, for fairer distribution, because it's about significant sums that can be helpful to different humanitarian organisations. On the other hand, I welcome the fact that such a proposal introduces the possibility of payment being made to natural persons and thus the ministry will be in a position to help different individuals who need medical care both abroad and with us. I will remain consistent that not only can the minister decide about it, although the Commission is scheduled to form. The commission is formed by a minister, although the existence of a criteria is foreseen. We come to the fact that these criteria are prescribed by the minister, at least according to the kind of proposal we have ahead of us. I believe that this could have been done somewhat differently, and that the criteria, quite the contrary, were prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that the commission was formed by different judicial structures. When I say different judicial structures, in that sense, I think that, let's say, a more comprehensive solution would be that it is a three-member commission whose members will be appointed by the Ministry of Justice, the State Major Prosecutors and the Supreme Council of the judiciary, because ultimately that money is the consequence of the work of all three bodies. Is that right? All three organs then need to decide. Also, I don't think the government should be the one to decide on the allocation of funds, because there may be urgency, for example, that someone urgently needs money for treatment abroad and then, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's just say, let's just say, let's just say, uh, let's just say, let's just say, let's say, let's say, uh, uh, let's just say, let's say, uh, let's say, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh I don't think that's something to wait for, because someone's health, someone's life can't wait for a session or even a session of the government of a country, whatever it is. When it comes to the other provisions of the proposed legal text, I must commend the ministry here and I will do so, as so far there is a legally unsustainable situation which has arisen in the previous period, finally and applied the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and is in line with fully guaranteed human rights. How I feel about the Constitution, as I like to say, I've talked about it many times. In fact, it was an unsustainable practice so far that the public prosecutors decided to check who was talking to the phone, who was moving where and of course it could and of course created a number of abuses in every civilized world, and I think we're just part of that civilized world. Such measures can only be decided by an independent court, and this law now returns to those archaics that I consider to be extremely good. The same is true of making objections to the measures taken, for the solution so far has been in the manner—cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you. I'm glad the Justice Department just recognized this thing and corrected this injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1243	Time. Thank you. National MP Snezana Malovic is not there. The word is Milena Bycanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1244	Dear President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, I have first spoken to Parliament. I'm not an education lawyer, and I know the minister likes hard arguments. I'm sorry, Minister, but you're going to listen to this from the point of view of a citizen who has the right now as a national MP to say something about what the human wants to understand, and believe me, I've been very moved by a lot of what I've read. I was able to understand the law. I've seen all the good intentions that are exposed here. I encourage that this law is truly fully implemented and I am absolutely certain that the path of realisation is not easy with all the limits that we have financial, systemic, etc. What I would like to say in particular right now is that just this difficult time that we live in and the state always has a chance to get out of that time, but people who experience these difficult opportunities in one tragic way for life can remain marked. In this regard, I especially appeal to those members of the law who need to contribute that people who are staying in criminal and correctional institutions, prisons, whatever we call them, must receive treatment for a person whose legal protection will be absolute, as the Constitution guarantees, as recommended by the legislative changes. In that sense, I am particularly inspired by a member of the law that tells me that women who are serving the sentence, who are having their children there, have the right to care for them for up to two years of their lives. But what's very important is that all the conditions of a child's stay at such a small age, I know that you've also taken care of the constitutional category of protection of the child's interests, to really be realised in a timely, valid way, because we must not miss the opportunity for a child born and in such conditions to be a good, decent, honest and happy citizen, regardless of the circumstances in which he was born, because that child did not choose the circumstances. We also give our mother a beautiful and warm support that her motherhood in these difficult conditions can be realized, counting that if we help her in the most poor way we will execute, we will help her to make that change happen and the moment she comes out she really felt that she had the support of society, that this society will continue to support her and that she will have the opportunity to continue her life in the best possible way. It's very important, it's very important to return to that real world. There's another topic that's also important, and I've been meeting with her in some previous professional practice and the subject is of a minor who's been away from school for a few months as who, because they did something they shouldn't have done. Then one day they went back to class. We're receiving them. We give them full support, but the schools don't have absolutely, at least I didn't have any support in training, in any advisory role in which way we systematically do it, that we all be taken care of, that we all be safe and say the system works. It's a new day and we're all going to a new life. These are two topics that are very important because while there is someone in some non-freedom, life goes one way. We have to worry about that life, but life didn't stop at a time when it comes out of this situation and this process of restitution is of absolute importance, and whatever we do with this law, and I'm sure we're going to try, the number of returnees will be the best criteria to tell us, or one of the most important criteria, whether we did well, whether we were well assessed, whether we were efficient, human enough, whether we were still on that persistent path of building a safe, tolerated society that respects human rights. This is a very good opportunity. Unfortunately, the subject is painful, but she is present in life. This is a good opportunity to show where we're going and what we're looking for. If that's the European way, let's have a happy trip, but we need to do this first of all because of our own happiness and responsibility that we have towards us, and since I'm a socialist by conviction, I really believe in the idea of building a society of equal odds. One who has done something that should not have been valid in time and justly indicated. That way we'll send a message to those who don't. We'll raise each other. I would never delete that point of humanity from any law, and I would always fight for it the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1245	The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1246	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I am in this House in the third session, and I always talk about medical topics and health care. The law of the judicial domain is on the agenda, but you will be amazed, Minister, there are topics and health and in your laws. First I'll start with Criminal Law, Art. In 249 and 250, where sick people are discriminated against and AIDS suffers. The first December is the day around the world when we draw attention that we should not discriminate against people who suffer from AIDS, but unfortunately at the last meeting on December 1st, I was distracted by the fact that there are two articles in the existing Criminal Law. In 249 and 250, which are discriminating where they especially place, they label these sick people who have already been discriminated enough because of their illness. Our society still doesn't accept them in the right way. I've been asked by the National Association of AIDS to try to change this. I made some draft amendments to the law in the last session. I hope that in the next period, we will have the opportunity to cooperate and correct this because there are a number of infectious diseases that are even more dangerous than AIDS, and AIDS here is especially performed as some terrible disease that can and should be sanctioned in these two members. In the bill of law, I proposed that, instead of words, AIDS be placed – all infectious diseases and all other prerogatives of that member should be respected. It is up to you, once again, that I will ask you to do so in order to reduce the discrimination of these patients and to be satisfied with this House's assembly. Now I'm going back to your draft amending the law, and I can tell you that I personally liked the idea that criminals, vandals on sports grounds, should be banned from entering sports fields. That's a very good thing. I believe that we need to be even more rigorous, that as England has reduced the number of hooligans, that we have a judge on the ground and that the judge literally imposes sentences on the ground itself and that these persons are literally immediately transferred to prison. In England after all those hooligans, we don't have that kind of problem anymore. You can see that all the playgrounds are without barriers and that you no longer have to run out of hooligans, unlike Serbian stadiums where you have running and harassing citizens, fighting in front of stadiums, fighting in stadiums, doing material damage in our cities, so maybe you should think about it. When we talk about sanctioning hooligans, as a doctor, I'm going to draw attention to one thing you mentioned, and that's a good one shift from the previous period, that certain means that are taken away from the crime scene to focus on some human funds and human purposes. I have also made an amendment that will be the subject of discussion in particular when we talk about amendments. I'm going to take this opportunity to tell you that my idea was that the money collected from the criminal activities should only be directed with one purpose to treat severely ill children who are not seen by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, i.e. The rule about sending children abroad does not have a certain type of disease in its codebook and to show that one humanity, let's say – these means go all to treat these children who are currently being treated with SMS messages, different humanitarian concerts, different humanitarian actions. Here's an opportunity, you've already opened the door to this subject, to focus, certainly, you as a minister and the Republic government, that these funds point to a proposal from the Ministry of Health, because it would set out the priorities of sick children, who are more vulnerable than anyone else and that it has a chance of being treated abroad. We are now in a position to see one situation that leaves no one indifferent, where we are forced to, in the lack of money, perhaps in the absence of some good will, in the absence of a more quality medical, medical apparatus to make this one reform that is 20 years late and that we can direct this money to the treatment of these children who are now unfortunately left to themselves, parents are left to themselves and that in many situations they are begging, begging, show their sick children that they are really sick to get the compassion of some national TV house and to have a chance to heal themselves. As a doctor, I will tell you that many sick children have no opportunity to reach Belgrade, Nis or Novi Sad, that they have no opportunity to reach some national television and that their torments remain in some of their small environments, their small families, and that these children are losing the battle with sickness or unfortunately with a tragic end. So this is a good thing to open up the possibilities for money, property seized from crime to one of the most human objectives, which is to treat children, but I repeat, treating children who are not meant to be sent abroad to an existing and valid rule of law of the Republic Fund, because there are many serious diseases that are not foreseen and this is an opportunity to say that we can do so. At the end of my presentation, I will draw attention both as a doctor and as a father to a subject that also binds your law, which is how we have identified and emphasized the importance of sanctioning hooligans in this law. It's some personal idea and initiative of mine, I'm not indifferent to me with mild penalties for paedophiles and rapists. I think that many of the perpetrators of these most disgusting crimes, because for me the more disgusting crime of child rape does not exist, I find our punishments to be very mild and that they should be even stricter. I remind you that although Romania is an EU member, it has introduced a chemical castration of rapists who have committed rape against a minor child. I know that the death penalty has been abolished in Serbia, that we are following European trends, but I am telling you that I am so angry when I hear that someone who committed such a heinous crime has served his sentence, is coming back and doing the same crime again. As the father of a little girl, I don't know how to react or how to react to a father who has such an incident. I ask you to take this seriously, because the punishments for such monsters were very small in the past and that these monsters were very quickly on the street and used the opportunity to commit the same crime again. I thank you, I will end this, and I hope that in the next period we will have the opportunity to correct that 249th and 250th member who discriminates against the AIDS sufferers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1247	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1248	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, we have before us a set of judicial laws aimed at improving the criminal policy of the Republic of Serbia, improving judicial systems, as well as approaching EU laws. In addition to approaching EU laws, what I find very important in these laws is the approximation of reality and real life. Only a law that is adequately approximated to reality and real life can be fully realized and fully responded to its purpose. In these three laws, I will refer to the draft law on the enforcement of extra-legislative sanctions and measures for the reasons I consider it and how significant that it has been passed as a special law, for the reasons that it has also given positive effects and results in many European countries and for the reasons that you have also highlighted the huge positive results of the enforcement of extra-legislative measures in your opening presentation. Three basic results and three basic objectives that should be achieved by this law. The first goal, of course, concerns huge savings in the republican budget, as the number of prison days has been reduced. The second goal, even less important than this first one, is an increased possibility of resociating a convicted person. The third goal, also a little less important than the previous two, is the success of the integration of these people into the social environment. As regards the draft law on the enforcement of extra-conductive measures, which are the measures to be imposed in criminal and criminal proceedings, as well as the measures that public prosecutors make with their own decision, are implemented in the community, i.e. in the natural environment, I would place the accent on Article 10, and it refers to the creation of an individual programme of the conduct of trustees which is otherwise determined by this law for the enforcement of extra-conductive measures. Why should I put the accent and attention first and foremost on Article 10? Because I consider it a foundation and a starting point for the positive effects of the application and enforcement of extra-conductive measures. Who are the bearers of the adoption of an individual program of conduct? In the first place, it is a trustee who, in accordance with the individual characteristics of a convicted person, with an assessment of his personality, with an assessment of his health status, with data on his acquired education, with an assessment of his family opportunities, starts to work on an individual program of conduct. What else is important about the individual program of action? The active involvement of the convicted person and the measure to which this measure is carried out is important. This active participation of a person in an individual programme of conduct at this starting point and how they can produce a positive effect on resociation, reintegration and, of course, do not repeat the criminal procedure, i.e. a reduction of relapse. What other importance does this Article 10, or individual program of action, have? It is important that this program of conduct, apart from the trustees, is signed together and the person to whom an extralegal educational measure is being carried out. So he is actively involved, actively participating in the adoption of an individual program of conduct, and with his own signature, he is already giving some support that positive effects can be achieved in terms of measure. What else is significant in this bill, which refers to the reduction of social isolation and social exclusion of the person under whom extralegal educational measures are being implemented? It is a member of the 39th law, which specifies the inclusion of these persons in public works. These public works are mainly carried out in humanitarian, health, municipal and other institutions. The contract for the execution of this sentence shall consist of the Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions, and the trustee shall, of course, indicate the execution of this sentence by the person to whom the sentence has been determined. In this way many convicted persons do not move away from their family, there is no social isolation and can certainly affect the reduction of relapses. Of course, there are also persons to whom this measure is being implemented, and they do not carry out it properly. What's the procedure? The procedure is such that the trustee calls for the interview of the person to whom the measure is being carried out, talks with him, advises him and, of course, warns him of sanctions that can be taken further if the measure is carried out, and the sanction is that the trustee delivers an opinion to the court, which means that other sanctions arise afterwards. What I also want to point out here is Article 57, which refers to a programme of assistance and support to people coming out of prison and returning to their natural environments. This support programme and how important it is, because, according to statistics, around 70% of those who have already committed prison sentences and have been sentenced to prison sentences have returned in the first six months. What are these measures of assistance and support that can be provided to persons who come out of the maintenance of the prison sentence? These are support and assistance measures concerning housing security and nutrition. These are measures of assistance and support concerning the handling of their family opportunities. These are support and assistance measures concerning health and social security. These are assistance and support measures related to co-operation with social work centres, to provide adequate financial assistance to meet the basic needs of life. This period of leaving the prison and returning to the natural environment is in fact one measure, not only to help, but also to empower these persons on the way back to the natural environment, on the way to finding employment, on the way to changing their behaviour and accepting socially desirable standards of behavior. I'd point to Article 58. Proposal for a law on the enforcement of extra-legislative measures, which refers to specific measures to prevent criminal offences against offenders of semi-freedom against minors. It's very important here that these perpetrators are obliged within three days to report to the trustee. The trustee is also required to establish cooperation and communication with competent institutions within three days, and these institutions are police, health institutions, custody authorities, counselling centres, specialised institutions, and subsequently form an individual, or individual programme of action within eight days. Of course, the trustee is obliged to inform the court within three days of not fulfilling this obligation. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is also important in terms of reducing the conduct of criminal acts, especially those of criminal acts relating to violent conduct, and in particular that violent behaviour is present in the younger population of our population. The measure introduced is a ban on visiting certain places. This mainly refers to sports courts and other public places and in some ways achieves a security measure in relation to society, as well as a measure of the presence of the accused in the process. It is also a very significant change in the way the funds received through the application of the institute of delayed prosecution are allocated. Why is this change important? It's important with two aspects, in terms of transparency and the public, because to get these funds, and among those who can get these funds are humanitarian organisations, other legal and physical persons, a competition is being held. The competition is being conducted by a commission educated by the ministry, followed by a decision on obtaining these funds by the government. I believe that in this way and more transparent and usefully these funds will be addressed. It is also a very important amendment and an agreement on the recognition of guilt that is now being changed by these legal changes, and it says that a plea agreement can be reached by the end of the main search, which was not in the previous law, but until the start of a public search. In this way, I believe there will be a reduction in court costs. The Serbian Progressive Party, when it comes to pro-European laws, when it comes to laws that are in line with the Council of Europe's recommendations and when it comes to laws firmly established in reality, has no dilemma, in the day to vote, will support a set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1249	The word is Ljubica Mrdakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1250	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Dear Mr Minister, members of the Ministry and Associates, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the new Bill on Criminal Penalty Law makes certain solutions that will improve the existing law, all in order to protect the rights of convicted persons, as well as to agree with the most modern solutions of European continental law, which undoubtedly gave positive results. Among other things, the new proposed legislative solutions aim to regulate in a comprehensive way the rights and obligations of convicted persons and employees in institutions for the enforcement of prison sanctions, but also to remove the problems and irregularities observed so far in the existing legislation. I would like to say that despite all the other solutions, this law also carries a human component aimed at providing prison prisoners with an opportunity for adequate education and treatment, communication with the outside world, that is. Achieving a full range of human rights, all with the intention of achieving the right purpose of punishment, i.e. not to be retaliatory, but to avoid possible return to the execution of crimes after the punishment and release of these persons. The practice so far has shown that the relapse is very common and most often in the case of perpetrators of serious crimes, and precisely in order to re-evaluate convicts, it is necessary to apply new proposed legal solutions, in order to ensure that convicted persons find their place in society and not re-access to the execution of criminal acts. So, the continued support of these faces is necessary. The possibility of education in prison units and both primary and secondary education, as well as training for the work of convicted persons during the duration of the prison sentence, give hope that the convicted person will be able to fit into the existing social frameworks in an adequate way, to find employment and provide for his and his family the existence, which is also the essential conditions for the acceptance of such persons by society in order not to be stegmatised and to be better integrated into society. The new bill introduces as we have heard from the minister and other fellow MPs, a new institute that has not been known so far in our right, which is the judge for execution. The introduction of this new institute aims to establish more effective judicial protection and enhanced supervision of the application and respect for the rights of convicts and to prevent possible abuses and violations of their rights by the competent authorities. At this point in the jurisdiction of the judge for execution are quite limited, in my opinion, and relate primarily to the protection of the rights under the complaint of the detainees, the procedure for the request for judicial protection of the person to carry out the safety of mandatory treatment and detention, i.e. keeping in a health institution mandatory treatment against alcoholism, i.e. alcoholics and the mandatory treatment of drug addicts when they're all being conducted in the office. Also, it is the judge's duty to execute at least once every four months, so three times a year in the course of the year, he visits the territory of his local jurisdiction, talks with the convicts and informs them about the exercise of his rights, or their rights. Given that the new legal solutions are in line with the modern trends already affirmed in most European countries and democracies, as well as the international obligations arising from our country's membership in the Council of Europe concerning the fulfilment of criminal sanctions against persons deprived of freedoms, I believe that the application of the proposed legal solutions offered by this law will positively affect the life and work in the institutions of the Bureau, and will reduce the effects of retribution and improve the human character of dealing with convicts. As regards the Law on the exercise of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, taught by the good practice of developed European democracies, the intention is to apply new achievements to the enforcement of criminal sanctions and to minimise the burden for both the budget and the adequate protection of convicted persons and their rights. It is indisputable that institutions of a closed type are a nursery for young criminals, i.e. most often young people who are first convicted and sent to a prison sentence. Unfortunately, there they come in contact with multiple returnees, and the prison sentence, instead of educational, has an educational character, but, of course, in a negative sense of words, that is, young convicts from the elderly learn and, under the pretenses of the trade, to apply the learned and re-access the crimes immediately upon release. Although the practice of carrying out extra-conductive sanctions is relatively new in our legislation, it has shown very good results within a very short period, so the legislator's aim is to advance existing solutions through the new bill. In fact, the positive effects of such enforcement are multiple. The convict has contact with the outside world, which means he's not excluded from society, so the social component of keeping social contacts intact. The convict does not come into contact with multiple returnees and offenders and is not forced to adapt to the convict code and quack authority from the prison mile. The convict manages to preserve his family and work environment, and the purpose of punishment is to be fulfilled in the right way. So it's this socially beneficial work that we all insist on. Also, the costs of carrying out out out-of-conduct sanctions in relation to the institutions are minimal and both well for both the Republic of Serbia's budget and the taxpayers. Experiences from other countries show that alternative penalties have a positive and positive impact on the reduction of the crime rate, especially among younger perpetrators who first appear as perpetrators. It is very important that, by applying these sanctions, the process of reintegration into society is speeded up multiple times for the simple reason that the convict has not often interrupted family and work contacts, and that, throughout the application of this type of punishment, the effectiveness of our country's criminal system is improved. The Serbian Progressive Party will, of course, back this set of judicial laws in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1251	Before we move on to the next speaker, just to inform the National Assembly, or MPs, that we will be working today until the debate is over in principle under points 4, 5, and 6 of the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Branka Bosnjak, and let the MP Vladimir Djukanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1252	I would like to make a contribution to my discussion and to the possible improvement of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, of course in the work relating to my professional experience. I point out that as an architect, I have been able to participate on several occasions in the design and realisation of the reconstruction of the Institute of Criminal Sanctions. The proposed law defines, among other things, the position of a person in the maintenance of criminal sanctions and the life of detainees in accordance with this law must have all the elements of humanity in order to better socialise it both during their stay in custody, of course and after his release to freedom. This law defines all elements of humanity in treating detainees, banning all kinds of discrimination and also providing minimum technical standards for staying and possible work of detainees. These standards are reflected in the normisation of the dimensions of the area in which the detainees reside, so that this law provides for one member, plans for the detention unit to be so dimensioned that it simply becomes a minimum of four square meters per detainee. The law also provides for a standard of eight cubic metres in a prison unit per prisoner, which I consider to be a technical discrepancy, but I will talk about it in the amendment day, since I have suggested that this small correction be introduced into the law. This law prescribes the mandatory technical equipment of all rooms. According to him, all detention units with natural and artificial light secured and also have adequate minimum installations. Inmates must have a special sanitary room with complete personal hygiene maintenance equipment available. Unfortunately, we are all witnesses to the state of our prisons. I have to say that my experience suggests that the Department of Criminal Penalty, as well as the competent ministry, has made a lot of efforts over the past few years, and has invested significant resources to improve standards and to reconstruct appropriate institutions. The European Commission for the Prevention of Tortrum every two or three years comes to visit and visits our prisons and they write reports after each visit, giving us some suggestions. I want to assure you that all the reconstructions in which I participated were made in accordance with their recommendations. For example, four-person detention units have been designed. Every detention unit had a proper sanitary node. All detention units are equipped with proper equipment and antivandal equipment. This antivandal equipment protects prisoners both from each other and from their self-injuring. I would also like to refer to another member of this law, which is Article 125. He's talking about the religious rights of detainees. It prescribes the existence of separate suitable rooms for performing religious rituals for prisoners of all religions. As a good example, I'd also like to commend the Department of Criminal Penalty, so-called. An investigative prison in Bačvanska Street in Belgrade, which recently provided a room of 30m square meters for this purpose. I would also like to mention a priest, who, for his modesty, would probably not like me to mention his name, who, by means of his engagement, collected a donation and specially equipped this room so that detainees could exercise their faith. In the end, I would like to point out that this law has been created from the aspect of the architect of good and optimal conditions for the stay of detainees in prisons, but more importantly, I hope that this state will have the means to implement them, to adhere to them and to fully apply them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1253	The People's Messenger Vladimir Djukanovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1254	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Stevovic, ladies and gentlemen, I must commend first of all this to you, Mr. Stevovic, these two laws on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and other law relating to the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures. First of all, I'm glad that the profession is finally being consulted and we can see in the end who took part in the draft law. It's good that this practice is being introduced, that we have good working groups, that we have people from the OSCE and the Council of Europe, and that's why we have such a good law against whom I don't believe anyone here has anything to object to, and on this one we can only congratulate you on. I really believe this is going to work. Why? Because people who are convicted are given an additional chance in life, it is clearly emphasized that they are not rejected by society, but that one day they may be able to become useful members of society. Otherwise, when I was in my life doing penitentiary criminology with Professor Ignatovic at one time, I had a dilemma about whether to be rigid in sanctions or maybe to try some resociation, but here you found a real measure, that whoever committed the really serious crimes would not be completely rejected by society again, but to experience the sanctions that they should experience, and yet the persons who may have committed some crime out of the negativity, who were in some way brought into that situation to feed themselves, because we really are a poor society, to give them a chance to become useful members of this society and not have to do such things. From that aspect, these two laws are indeed something that should be supported. What came to my attention is amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. The reason for the introduction of this security measure related to violent behavior at sports events is emphasized here. None of us were flowers when we were young. I have to tell you myself. It's part of growing up and I've been a part of it myself. I have nothing to hide. Someone would say you were part of a hooligan group. It's part of growing up, but as someone who's been involved in all this life, I have to tell young people who are going to sports events today that they're not going to do anything about the violence at the stadium, but just because they love their club and because they love sports. What bothers me in general here may have been an example of a person being banned from accessing a place, let's say, if he's a drug dealer, he's dealing drugs in a bar, so let's say he's not in that bar. Sports combats are not the only place where such crimes are committed. There seems to be a need here for all the people who go to the stadium or the game to declare themselves all hooligans. It's often the public here so often, especially in the media, it's often that everyone who goes to the game is about a hooligan and is ready to commit violence. That's not true. There's a certain number of people really, like you said here, that do it, but it can easily prevent such a person from being removed from the stadium by having cameras in the stadiums, recording the stands, seeing who's doing the riots, and just getting him out of the stadium, if you have to be introduced sometimes, and you're not going to let him in, and that's that. It's a very small number of people and it's pointless for a whole bunch of people to come to the stadium to generalize that they're all hooligans. This is the example of Great Britain. It's only a matter of fact that he brought out a colleague that the UK solved the problem. She solved it in such a way as to ban all these people from entering the stadium, but also by increasing the price of tickets, so that sport generally became unacceptable to a poorer layer of the population. Great Britain has a major problem with hooliganism around the stadium and the unhinged outcome. All EU countries have a terrible problem with hooliganism at sports objections. For example, a Greek member of the EU has even taken the measure to ban visiting fans from going to the game. For example, when you play derby Olimpiakos – Panatinaikos, there are no Panatinoikos fans because she couldn't take so many riots anymore. And the police themselves signed a petition not to provide such a match because there are many injured police officers. Not to mention Belgium, Holland, France. We have as many examples as you want, so Serbia is not the only one who faces it, and here someone needs to show us that we are the most violent, that only with us are such things happening, and objectively when you look at it, you have a far greater situation of chaos in sports courts even in EU countries. This is one good measure finally because in some ways it seems to be counterproductive. The person who committed such a crime in the stadium itself while he was in the process cannot attend any sports event, but perhaps you should consider, if he does so on a continuous basis, that he should be banned from full attendance at sports resorts, that is, stadiums. It's, like, England did, and that's how she sort it out. There's only a measure here as long as there's a criminal trial. Let's say he finds a good lawyer, gets released from any charges, he'll come back and do something like that again, so we should think about it. The very set of laws is very good and I'm glad that someone started this way to think about a non-innocent subject that is primarily for sociological questioning -- why someone needs to come to the stadium to make a mess. That was never clear to me either. It makes sense for you to come and cheer for your club because you love sports, but unfortunately, it happens everywhere. We're not the only examples, and we'd better get going as much as we can. What still fell into my eyes about the CAP is this decision that somehow had to be brought into line with the Constitutional Court's decision on the documents. I think this is good because, as far as I understand the intensities of the legislator, of course, it is the court that now decides whether or not someone is being followed by a base station or located by calls, but in this case, as I understand it, the judge for the previous proceedings may reject a public prosecutor and not have to directly upon the order of a public prosecutor to take such measures, which is good, because you have some kind of control and some kind of restriction. Of course, in the voting day, we'll support something like this, but I believe, since we've touched this subject, that in some future period, first of all you, Mr. Minister, you can consider these measures, especially for sports combats, repairs and that we really understand as a society that we have to fight this in a different way than we've done so far, because we had one Law on the Prevention of Violence in Sports Battles. He has even more caused chaos as it is, than he has really prevented violence at sports sites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1255	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1256	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important law in the area of criminal law and the subjugation of criminal sanctions and the law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures. I'd like to say a few words about these laws. As far as the Law on Criminal Penalty is concerned, it is a new law, which in fact replaced and improved the 2005 Criminal Penal Code. The new law detailed the application of criminal sanctions, introduced new institutes, brought into line with European standards. One of the most important new institutes, envisioned by the new law, is the judge for the execution of criminal sanctions. Under the provisions of the law, the office of a judge for the execution of criminal sanctions and the exercise of judicial supervision for the execution of criminal sanctions, thus providing for more effective control of the application of criminal sanctions and thus ensuring respect for the rights of persons deprived of liberty. The provisions of the Penal Code also define the jurisdiction of judges for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which include the protection of the rights of persons detained, as well as the decision on the application for judicial protection of convicts and persons subject to mandatory psychiatric treatment, as well as the mandatory treatment of drug users and alcoholics within the institution. The law stipulates that a judge for the execution of criminal sanctions has an obligation to go to court in his territory and his local jurisdiction once every four months, talking to prisoners and informing them about ways to exercise their rights, which also significantly raises the level of protection of persons deprived of liberty. That the introduction of a judicial institute for the enforcement of criminal sanctions is very important for the path of European integration also proves the fact that Minister Selakovic mentioned in the interpretation of this law, which is that this institute has been in place for some time in several EU countries, and that the Council of Europe praised the introduction of this institute in its expertise. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions also established the basis for the creation of a special law governing the application of non-conductive sanctions and measures, so I would say a few words about this law as well. The increase in crime in the world, as well as in the dedicated work and commitment of the security services and judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia, especially in the last two years, when a large number of persons who have committed easier and more serious crimes have been processed, a great burden has taken place on prison institutions in Serbia. At the same time, however, it turned out that the prison sentence has its weaknesses, that it is a criminal sanction that is expensive for society and sanctions that do not achieve the expected effects, especially in the case of minor crimes. Also, the broad application of probation as sanctions, primarily towards low-risk offenders, who have committed minor crimes, has often been criticised for their relative mildness, lack of level of supervision and the inability to overcome a wide gap that would be from prison punishment. An analysis of the effects of classical sanctions, such as a prison sentence on crime prevention, has seen a number of negative effects on convicts. The person who supports the prison sentence is permanently marked as a criminal by the environment. Those who are in detention are separated from their family and are often rejected by the family after they have been punished. Those who support prison sentences interrupt schooling, lose their jobs, and find new employment hard to find after getting out of prison. Those who are in detention can fall under the very bad influence of troubled prisoners. These negative effects in themselves, especially all together, have an extremely negative impact on the person who supported or supported the prison sentence and increase the chance that the person who suffered these negative effects after leaving prison would do the same or more serious crime again, so that the number of returnees in prison sentences is extremely high, so it is necessary to resort to alternative sanctions, whose application has just been regulated by the Law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures and which have proved to be a much more effective solution in parallel legislation. As for alternative sanctions whose application is governed by the Act on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, they have a number of positive effects. The negative effects I mentioned are avoided – separation from the family, termination of education, loss of work, negative influence on the prisoner. The application of alternative sanctions to the social community gives a more active role in the criminal justice system. By applying alternative sanctions, the social community gets direct benefit in the form of free work condemned through alternative sanctions of public interest work. The application of alternative sanctions shall effectively and publicly implement reintegration, i.e. the inclusion of convicted persons in society. The application of alternative sanctions creates conditions for the removal or mitigation of the cause of the execution or reconciliation of the victim. The application of alternative sanctions reduces the social condemnation of persons who have endured prison sentences. The application of alternative sanctions reduces the prison population, resulting in lower costs and the separation of the social community. The law on the enforcement of out-of-conduct sanctions and measures draws closer to regulating the procedures and arrangements for the enforcement of alternative sanctions in the treatment of persons who have endured prison sentences, after their release from prison, as well as the provision of assistance to convicts after the prison sentence has been carried out, which will facilitate the inclusion of convicted persons in society and reduce the risk of re-defension. Furthermore, a more precise regulation of the provisions on the supervision of the enforcement of the measures set out under the parole will contribute to the conditional release of convicted persons fully fulfil their purpose, i.e. to contribute in the right way to effective reintegration, i.e. inclusion in the society of convicted persons, which will also be positively reflected in the number of court decisions on conditional dismissal. I believe that the application of the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the Law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures will certainly contribute to improving the effectiveness of the application of both criminal and alternative sanctions, which will directly affect the special and general prevention, i.e. the effectiveness of the application of these laws will affect the perpetrators themselves so that they no longer commit crimes, both society and society as an educational function in order to prevent crimes. I believe that the application of these laws will certainly lead to a reduction in the rate of crime, that these laws will bring us another step closer to the EU, which is why we and our children can expect a safe future and therefore I will vote for these laws. I suggest you do the same for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1257	The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1258	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, all your associates, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us a set of laws that we had in the procedure and in the last assembly of parliament. They were withdrawn for technical reasons. I then told the minister that too quickly and too often comes to this parliament, we will fulfill all the agenda towards the EU and in the next meeting when he is a minister again, we will have nothing to discuss in this parliament, and that these laws are represented by Mr Nikola Selakovic. Today's arrival has denied what I said, perhaps because of the shortness of his last term. This mandate will be complete and I am sure that we will meet everything regarding our path to opening chapters 23 and 24, given that we are today, and tomorrow we will discuss in the principle of very important laws, i.e. amendments and additions to certain laws, as well as new laws that have not been in the assembly procedure so far, which are now foreseen and which are before us. Today we are discussing the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the draft law on the enforcement of extra-legislative sanctions and measures. I especially stress this, because one legal proposal covered all of what I've just read. This matter was covered by one law, where a lot of it was intertwined and where institutional sanctions were applied to a much greater extent, and I would say on several occasions, without any reason in law enforcement and in criminal jurisprudence, people who committed a crime for the first time, who committed a minor offense with less social danger, who were sentenced up to one year. Instead of applying alternative measures that they maintain a prison sentence under domestic conditions, it is very restrictively accepted. I can say that from my own experience in the work that I do. We've got big, I'd say, and defensive mechanisms with judges who'd rather send someone to a prison sentence, even though we know that our prisons are overbooked, that they're beyond all standards, that they're sleeping in rooms where there's a huge number of prisoners, where each other's heads. In this way, an infection is carried out among prisoners. They get to know each other, bond, contact, change phones. After you leave, you have created a network that sometimes works in further criminal activity. That's why it's very important that you suggested we separate these two laws. This first law also has one newspaper. This proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions where there is a judge for the enforcement of institute sanctions, which will control everything from the beginning, that is, from calling for the start of the sentence, follow the course of detention, allow to fulfil all the rights that exist and are foreseen, and of course the prisoners are limited in a certain sense, as regards freedom, but not other human rights. In this way, it is possible that a professional, a man who works in a higher court, is a highly experienced graduate with a passed judicial exam and a long-standing experience that will, on the basis of this experience, absolutely protect everything that the law gives for the right of those people who are within four walls and who see the only salvation from all this through respect for their human rights which, I repeat, are limited in one part. As far as the draft law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures is concerned, there are more things that are important. It is necessary to say that, if this law is applied, and we adopt, it will certainly begin to apply, which will come to large financial savings, which we will be able to have in the family environment people who have not really committed a serious crime, have not done a crime that they are returnees or that they are people who are professionally involved. In their midst, in their family, at their jobs, because the law allows them to leave the family home and go to work, to the doctor, to carry out other duties that come from some normal life. In this way, we will have healthy and normal people, who will take the exact execution of the crime as such and will never again want to enter such an environment, in fact it will be one prize for them for proper conduct, for behaviour that satisfies legislation, and also for criminal policy in the Republic of Serbia. Another regulation is on the agenda today, and it is about amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and there are three newspapers. They concern the ban on visiting certain places. This measure must be given to people who visit sports grounds, who participate and become hooligans and who, at the moment they are released from prison, return to that environment, continue to do what is forbidden, continue to be appreciated by their environment, and in that sense, it is really necessary to impose this ban on return to a particular place. In all of this, it is important that the procurement of phone records, which is one intimate thing, is not only allowed by the prosecutor. It is necessary to make double control that the prosecutor, if he believes it is necessary to obtain a list of phone conversations of a person suspected of committing a crime, that this approval that the judge for the previous proceedings, that the judge who determines on a proposal of the prosecutor, of course with a reasoned proposal, will also be explained, in this way we get the security and inability to get someone too much rights, as previously provided, because the prosecutor and the prosecutor's investigation is something we have accepted, but all of this must be limited, because absolute power creates something that may be contrary to the law. What's very important, and it's been observed in practice, and what you're estimating well, the plea agreement, or the agreement that makes up the defendant with the prosecution, is a very important agreement that can, in many ways, facilitate the process, interrupt it at every stage. At this point, according to this bill, it is said that this agreement can be concluded until the main search is concluded. In this way, I think it is possible for everyone in the process to understand that this agreement can be concluded, again on the basis of a factual description, based on evidence carried out in the course of the proceedings and in this way there is no prejudication, a decision approved by the court is made. That is why all these newspapers are something that will bring changes to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I am convinced that all coalition partners, of course headed by the SNS, will cast their vote in the voting day and support Minister Nikola Selakovic and the whole set of laws he has proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1259	The People's Messenger, Svetislav Vukmirica, has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Cvetanovic, shall be prepared. Since there are currently no debates reported in the hall, since there are no more statements on the lists of MPs, before the conclusion of the joint principled search, I ask if they want to speak to the president, or if they want to have authorised representatives of parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic. Does the minister want a word, as a proposing representative? I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposals of the law. Comrade, repeat your request for discussion. Since they're new MPs, we're going to have a little tolerance right now at the beginning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1260	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not reporting for a debate about a law that's on the agenda tomorrow, but since I'm from the sports profession, I wanted to get involved in sports issues under the draft law amending the law. As Mr. Minister said in his announcement, the reason for adopting and putting this law on the agenda, and putting it in the process, is the frequency of unrest on sports grounds. What makes me particularly happy can point out that in case there is a need, there will be more precise measures and the law will be complemented by them. So, that the resolution ministries, first of all the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Sport and the Ministry of the Interior, are absolutely determined to do what they are not in years behind us is repeated as a remethylatic and factor that destroys the integrity and political stability of the Serbian state. I've been involved in sports events for many years, and I can say for decades. I'm a witness to the untold events as a participant, a pedagogue, or as an observer. We are all aware that none of us are comfortable when there is a riot at a sports event in any sense and in any respect, especially the unrest of a species that causes fear, consideration, people who visit sports events. I'm going back to the history of that phenomenon very soon. Huliganism was created as a term that describes behavior that violates the rules of social norms, bontons and laws. But we can say it's hooliganism and it represents general destructive behavior. The term itself comes in Irish terms from the 19th century, describes the deviant behavior and way of life of street gangs, as well as the individuals that made up these gangs. Today, this term is widely accepted and describes the behavior of individuals or groups of people who do not fit their destructive behavior into social standards of behavior. But speaking of hooliganism, which has been widespread worldwide, and not only in Europe, knowing all the tragedies in sports stadiums, unfortunately I have to say that the biggest sports tragedies took place in those sports events where the largest number of people participated, in our most popular sport, is football. We all remember Hazel, we remember Lima, we remember Buenos Aires, Glasgow, and I don't count any further. I can't say that I absolutely don't look forward to every possible spell and the desire of the state to challenge all of them and to prevent them from coming to stadiums instead of giving absolute support to a loved team, a beloved club, their behavior is turning into extremes and putting thousands of people at risk. Also, I can't help but look at the fact that we have to make an important difference between remethylatic and destructive factors as well as those that contribute to sports events, I'm talking about our country, thinking about Europe, are not part of the country's folklore. They're not extremely good events that will send a picture of our country's good to the world. I sincerely hope tomorrow. In two days' time when one big sports performance, a big sports game, and if everything's okay, and I hope it does, we'll send from our biggest stadium one of the most beautiful messages about how viewers are supposed to behave, what the picture of sports in the world should look like. We must and can be proud of the athletes this country has made, with one Novak Djokovic, with many teams who have won world, European, Olympic titles. We need to be very careful that this sports picture of the world doesn't black out those few groups of extremists and extreme fans who want to darken it all, the easiest I can say, incorrect, reckless behavior that doesn't lead to good. In the end, I can only wish and hope for the next one – that three resolution ministries, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education, will do anything to make the hooliganism, extremism, the destructive factors squeeze from all our battlefields and from all our battlefields, stadiums, halls go only the most positive images in the world, as I hope these days will be. I can say, and I end up looking forward to the fact that the state will not stand on the bill's amendment but, if it isn't enough, new, more precise measures to implement that tomorrow will not give hope and encourage those who did what this country can only regret until yesterday, and these are just ugly images that went out into the world and in all kinds of ways, I can say the most brutally, inciting all those who saw it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-13-0.u1261	Thank you. I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda. We finish today's work and continue tomorrow, 14 May 2014 at the beginning at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before we begin today's work, I ask you to pay our respects to the deceased MP Miodrag Rakic for a moment of silence. Praise him. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 119 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 107 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic, Dr Miljan Nikolic and Aleksandar Jablanovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, I have called on the Minister of Justice to attend also Biljana Pavlovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Vladimir Davidović, Assistant Minister of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search in the draft laws referred to in points 7 to 11 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search in the draft agenda proposals for items 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that it is appropriate to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle search on the draft law on defence, a draft law on dispute settlement, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings, a draft law amending the Act on Implementation and Security. Does the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Here you go, Minister.
