ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2872	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Finance concerning the restitution process, or the return of the seized property. In the fall of 2011, the National Assembly passed the Law on the return of the seized property. In March 2012, the application of the law and the application for restitution began, and on 3 March this year the period for submission of applications was completed. This period behind us has shown a number of shortcomings in the applicable Law on Restitution and we, as a parliamentary group, did not support that law at the time, because we did not agree with a number of solutions from that law. One of our key concerns was the inability of natural substitution, i.e. the return of taken property in cases where it is not possible to recover the property that has been taken away, the original property, in such a way as to enable the return of some property that is similar to the value, so on and so on. replacement restitutions. Therefore, the inability to return the seized property is one circumstance which should result in amendments and additions to the applicable law. However, in one part of the applicable law, in relation to one part of the property, compared to agricultural land, this substitution is provided for in the applicable law, but a procedure which in practice prevents the return of agricultural land is envisaged. My question is to the Ministry of Finance. I have two questions. First question - is there any thought in the Ministry of Finance towards amending and supplementing the Restitution Act? If the answer to this question is yes, then the second question concerns the eventual acceptance of a new restitution model. So, is the finance ministry thinking in the direction of accepting the possibility of replacement restitution? So, in cases where it is not possible to return the original property that has been seized, the return of property that is in the state property and which the state could have no problem returning to the former owners or their successors. There are several reasons why it would be good to accept these solutions, i.e. to establish a new model of restitution. Certainly, this blockade of the recovery process simply makes it impossible for former owners or their successors to get or to correct that injustice that happened to their families decades ago. On the other hand, if the state accepted this model that I was talking about, it would largely disburse the Republic of Serbia's budget from next year, as from January 1st next year, the state should start paying out advances for former owners or their successors, and from next year it should start broadcasting bonds, which will in any case mean a huge burden on the budget. On the third hand, all this is also related to European integration. Namely, one of the important issues in future negotiations with the EU will be the issue of property rights, and if we really want to open Chapter 23 which deals with fundamental rights early next year, or at the latest in the middle of next year, then it would be good to adopt amendments and amendments to the Restitution Act and unblock this process, which, unfortunately, is largely blocked at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2873	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2874	Dear President, fellow MPs, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Who runs the foreign policy of the Serbian state? Under the Constitution, the government determines and leads politics. These days we have a situation to see that in Serbia's foreign policy those in charge of implementing a determined policy seem to be acting as if there are different foreign policies of the Serbian state. Tomorrow the Prime Minister will be in Berlin on an extremely important visit. It is good that after two years the top state officials meet with the highest statesmen of the most important countries and this visit is in line with the established policy, as presented to us here, which is that European integration is the most important foreign policy interest of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, the president of the country under EU sanctions and many other countries will arrive in Belgrade tomorrow, and it certainly does not contribute to the reputation of the Republic of Serbia and does not contribute to the achievement of foreign policy interests. On the third hand, we have already a month and a half of a new foreign minister who has not travelled from Serbia to a bilateral meeting with a colleague. All the meetings he had, he had at several international ministerial conferences or here in Belgrade. The question arises: at this point, when many of the most important state issues depend on the international position of the Serbian state, can we allow the foreign minister to sit in Belgrade and deal with the internal issues of the Republic of Serbia or his party, or whatever, and not carry out and participate actively in the implementation of the foreign policy that was presented and voted here when the government was elected just over a month and a half ago? I want this answer in order to avoid future situations that we will have tomorrow. I don't know what news will be dominant and what meeting will be more important for the future of the Republic of Serbia – is it the one in Berlin or the one in Belgrade? I also want to know where the foreign minister will be tomorrow. Will it be next to the Prime Minister or will it be next to the President of the Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2875	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2876	My question is addressed to the Ministry of the Interior and concerns the demand for information regarding the possibility of further liberalising the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, or those provisions concerning the liberalisation of the possibility of obtaining our citizenship, the citizens of Serbian nationality living in the countries of the region. So in 2005, a new law on citizenship was passed which greatly facilitated all those interested in our diaspora and the countries of the region to gain Serbian citizenship. However, there remains one obstacle to seeking origin from the Republic of Serbia for those who want to exercise the right to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, so that this brings to a very difficult situation the indigenous Serb national minorities living in neighbouring countries – Hungary, Romania, Albania. These people who have lived as residents of our neighbouring or regional countries for centuries, or from generation to generation, have been unable to prove that they, or their ancestors, are from Serbia. This prevents them from exercising the right to their country of origin according to a simplified procedure. As president of the Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region, both individuals and Serb associations in the countries of the region addressed this request, and we discussed this topic with representatives of the MUP who informed us that the procedure was launched in this sense that more than one binding condition for obtaining citizenship was to prove that one of their ancestors once lived in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or that he had citizenship. For example, we were in an absurd situation and that a representative of Serbs in Albania, Mr. Boydar Bashanovic, who is a member of the National Minority Council of the Republic of Albania, who graduated from Serbia, is unable to obtain Serbian citizenship. The same situation is with some Serbs in Romania, in Hungary who have submitted requests through diplomatic consular offices of our countries in their dominant countries, but have been waiting for several years and cannot get one of the basic rights. We should look to some other countries in the region, say, such as Hungary, such as Croatia, which have allowed members of their national minorities in our and other countries to exercise that right, because it can only be in our favor. We normally face moving out with major demographic problems, this would also lead to an increase in the number of citizens of Serbia and we would get truly authentic sincere real representatives, ambassadors, free to say our countries on the team, and in other countries where these people live, move and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2877	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2878	Thank you. I refer the question to Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, and it is about the tragedy that took place in Novi Sad in a car accident where the lives of three young people have been lost and one of the participants has it as a stamp in the biography, regardless of what luck he has remained alive. It's footage of security cameras that appeared on media sites, but on websites various private and my question of who, with which powers did he deliver security cameras so that they could be shared on the Internet? The issue is both the interior minister and the minister of justice, because it is not the first time that the security cameras or the footage that should be available during the investigation are only the MUP or the prosecutor's office showing up in the media. It's not the first time, and we've been denied information on how to handle such cases and on the basis of which the regulations are for anyone who has security camera footage allowed to forward them to the media or whoever they think they need. I can't comment on, of course, decisions in the media to publish it, and I even have an understanding of it because the media knows it's something that people want to see for any reason or motive. So, they're not the subject of my question, but the subject of my question is the path of footage of a security camera like in this case when it comes to a car accident on our common grief and tragedy, another one has appeared about the serious injuries of a young girl in Nis, not the fact that the media is publishing it. Why is it important to speak in detail? Because it is the first human rights of those who are involved in the video, and the second is our obligation as the National Assembly to guarantee that their rights will be respected and that those who are obliged to apply the law will do so strictly and in accordance with the obligations they have both at the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. How many cases of uncontrollable giving to the media and data from the security camera, but unfortunately data from official investigations is serious that this is also a topic in the report that we are all going to read that makes the European Commission about the situation that there is information that the details of the investigation are not given to the media. I repeat, it is important for many reasons and for many of the consequences arising from this treatment that both ministers will answer the same question to convince us that it is an incident, that it is an isolated situation, and in no way is it a strategy of the work of the state administration, whether it is in the Ministry of the Interior, in the prosecution or in the Ministry of Justice. I can't imagine how terrible it is if there's someone on those videos you know, who you like or who's from your wider environment, but I can imagine how scary it would be if we felt that someone so much and so entertained that they violated the regulations that bound him to act in the state administration or entertained him by the sensationalism he produces. I think we are under the obligation that, on behalf of the human rights of all of us and in the name of the rule of law, we are very stubbornly insisting on the answer to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2879	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2880	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, I have a question, namely asking the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and the Protectors of Citizens who care about respect for the human rights of all Serbian citizens. What's this about? It is about my interest in the state of human rights of citizens of Serbian nationality in municipalities in Serbia where they are in a large minority. So, first of all, what I insist on is their political rights, their, so to speak, chances in local elections. Wouldn't it make sense that what our national minorities have at the central level, that Serbs or members of other peoples at the local level in the municipality have the same rights? So, we are witnessing that in some municipalities in Serbia, Serbian citizens have unfortunately 2% or 3%, and they practically have no chance at elections because of existing electoral laws. I don't think their human rights are respected. That is my opinion, the opinion of the MPs of the New Serbia Parliament Club, and that is why I am asking for a notice, a request and a question from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the Protector of citizens what their intentions are, and what are they going to do about this, of course, if they think that we are right and that there is a basis for what I am talking about? We are convinced that all citizens of Serbia should be equal, of course, regardless of their nationality and other personality characteristics and I do not see why this would not apply to citizens of Serbian nationality throughout the territory of the Serbian state. Another question I have within these five minutes would ask the Government, especially the Ministry of Defence -- is it possible to make some amendments to the laws, regulations or similar arrangements, that the property of the Serbian Army, above all I mean the barracks, is returned to ownership of local self-government, especially as it is in the town from which I come, in the town of Cačka, where there are papers and documents that the land on which the city's barracks were built and that the city, many years ago, was donated to Serbia's Serb army, to the country. If someone can't use a gift, it's a general rule, the order would be appropriate to return it to whoever gave it and did it to the donor. So, I ask, is it possible to make some changes to the laws that property over land, first of all in some cities located almost in the centre, would be returned to local self-government and it would take some obligations towards Serbia's military to build apartments at a certain percentage? I think we have positive experiences in our neighbouring countries. I would not now list what experiences and what countries, but there is little of that procedure that ends in 48 hours, because the property that stands and ruins has been created by the citizens of Serbia, our ancestors, by their effort and sweat, and shouldn't have, as I had the chance to hear 10-12 years ago that then in the Yugoslav Army, a Montenegrin general says 15 million marks or we don't want to talk. I think we all need to understand that it is the property of the citizens of Serbia and that it is a people's property and that it should be a wider circle of factors that would be asked about the fate of that property, given that it's all earned by this people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2881	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2882	Thank you, Madam President. Dear citizens of Serbia, I refer the issue to the Minister of Mining and Energy Mr. Aleksandr Antić, director of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda of Serbia" Mr. Obradovic, Minister of Industry Mr. Vujovic, and the final answer to this question also touches the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The issue concerns the status of the company of the company of the company for the construction of electricity facilities and plant "24. September" in restructuring from Užica. Given that this parliament has recently adopted a Privatisation Act with a fundamental objective of protecting the interest of more than 45,000 employees in privatisation entities in restructuring, it is logical that such protection should also be covered by employees in the company "24. September’. Unfortunately, this company has been neglected for more than a decade and left to business problems, income problems, the reconciliation of employees' obligations and the inability to engage in registered operations. Namely, in a way that is certainly not economically justified for "Electroprivred Serbia" in 2004, this company was singled out from the "Electroprivred Serbia" system and thus "Electroprivred Serbia" made it impossible for the highest quality level of service provision of operations, especially through the construction of electricity plants, trafo stations, power lines, etc. to service all needs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Since 2011, this company has been in the restructuring process, burdened with a number of mortgage problems, court executions that relate to trustees' executive orders of all categories, the inability to participate in tenders to obtain other jobs due to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, and given that this company has long been in an account blockade. Following numerous talks with the Government and the resolution ministry to help overcome the problem, last year, the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection via Minister Zorana Mihajlovic issued an understanding for companies in this status, enterprises in restructuring and an agreement was reached with the trade unions "Electroprivred Serbia" to carry out an analysis of the justification for meeting the conditions for such businesses to join or integrate the EPS system. Unfortunately, more than a month and a half have passed since May 1st, and such a concept, i.e. a justification analysis, has not yet been carried out. On the other hand, the company ‘24. This concept is not in September, given that it is known that other companies, such as "Colubara - Metal", "Georad" and some others, are already in the process of joining the EPS. I am convinced that this ministry or ministry headed by ministers Sasa Antiić, Mr. Vujovic, director of Elektroprivreda Srbija, will also have the understanding of the urgent needs of such enterprises, and I believe that now is the time to immediately, urgently and urgently bring forward the following and measures and activities. Under one, to make a decision on the accession of the Business Society "24. In September, in the restructuring of Užica, the Business Company for the Distribution of Electricity "ElectroSerbija" DOO Kraljevo or otherwise implements the integration of this company into the EPS system. Under two, in the event of the inability to make a decision under point 1, a decision shall be taken on the takeover of all employees of the company ‘24. September by the Business Society for Electricity Distribution of Elektroprivreda Serbia DOO Kraljevo. Under three, until the abovementioned decisions are made to the Company "24. September" trusts business in registered activity and those jobs which, given the circumstances that have been hit by our country as a flood disaster, are not subject to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Finally, I ask for an answer when these questions and measures will be realized, because it is high time to stop the maternal relationship with this company and to protect the interests of this company and its employees as its sole owner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2883	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2884	Let me introduce myself one more time, since I only spoke once. I'm Milletic. I come from the Srlig municipality, the most beautiful municipality in our Serbia. Otherwise, I'm an MP from the SNS list, a representative of the United Peasants' Party. My question would be the Privatisation Agency, and it's about privatising a company in our municipality, a company that was the only one in Serbia, which had a deaf room, it's "Ei Acoustika Svrlig". It was privatised in 2006 and from that privatisation, the owner drove it into bankruptcy. Normally, as in previous periods, he put that company into stock for certain loans, and out of bankruptcy the same owner bought, only with another name and now that company has no employees. All those halls that were in very good shape were torn apart. The tractors were pulled by electricity cables and repeatedly the workers and trade unions in "Ei Acoustica" wrote to the authorities certain reports for violations, for the bad things that were done in "Ei Acoustica" and to this day we have no results of these all applications. The question is, how was the privatisation done and does it have any elements of the crime? The second issue is the same from the part of the economy, as the municipality of Srljig was one of the most developed municipalities in Serbia in the 1980s. We had an I.T.K. Surgeon. It's a company that had over 1,000 employees. The bankruptcy sold a part of ITK where more than 200 workers were damaged and who seek their rights with the bankruptcy manager. To this day, the bankruptcy manager has not given an answer to the workers. I would ask the bankruptcy manager a question - when will the report be given to the workers, or the assembly of workers who worked in the company? My third question, since I am from the United Peasants' Party, is for the "Serbians". Since we have all witnessed that during the previous period there have been great floods, great damages, with victims that are really, what is said to be great because one man, too, is a great sacrifice for our Serbia. We are all witnesses that the bedbugs that have been made in the past decades are under question. Back in 13, 14 years, nothing was done to check those misery. It passes through the river Timok, which has been built in the Srlig itself during some previous period, meaning, in the 1980s, the 90s. In one part of the Srlig through which Timok runs, there is no such protective misery. My question would be "Serbians", whose seat is now for that part in Negotin, when will protective misery be made through the Srlig? When will Timok be corrected in certain places? There was a large flood in 2010 with no casualties, but there was material damage. This is another reminder that all those things that have been done, that is, we're thinking specifically about agriculture, all those things that have been done, specifically to solve these streams and streams, that we all have to check it one more time. Otherwise, the local self-government of the municipality of Svrljig is poor, but has always been on the line to assist all the competent services that maintain and the river Timok, which is in the jurisdiction of "Srbijavoda". The municipality of Svrljig, together with the people of the "Serbia" will be ready to assist and certain means to make that protector belt, because we do not want to happen in 2010, when more than 200 houses were flooded in Srljig, where people were emigrated in the same way as in our threatened cities. The question is, when will Timok's waterway be resolved through the Vrljig and when will protective misery be made to protect both property and people from unwanted things, as it was now during this time period? At the same time, we will have a Committee on Agriculture today, where together with our Committee President, Marijan Risticevic, we will look at these issues together with the Committee to forward it to the competent ministry. I'm sure our government and our ministers will have the strength to check out all these things we said and everything will be, I'm sure, better than it's ever been before.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2885	Time. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue with the work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Suzanne Spasojevic, Miroljub Stankovic, Bojan Kostreš, Branko Djurović and Olgica Batic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of the proposing Dr Nebojja Stefanovic, the interior minister, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Milorad Todorovic, the secretary of the MUP and Zorica Lončar Kasalica, head of the Directorate for Administrative Affairs at the Police Directorate. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the proposal for amendments and additions to travel regulations you have adopted a bill submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), I'm opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, the interior minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2886	Dear Presidents, honourable Members of the People, we have before us a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents. This law was passed on 1 October 2007 and was one of the key conditions for visa liberalisation, which was one of our country's key things on its path to the EU. In this way we have reached one truly envious level, one of the highest level of protection of travel documents in European law standards. Today our travel documents fall into the order of the most protected. Today, about 4,850,000 travel documents have been issued, so almost five million travel documents, which has been one big job since 2007. The most significant change that we have in front of us today concerns visa waivers on the shipping and maritime books, which would stop these two books from being like travel documents, since European law does not know the institution of exit visas. In particular, the Law on travel documents provided that visas as an authorisation for travel abroad were only required for the purpose of entering a shipping or maritime book. In this way, these shipping, or maritime books, became something of a passport, and in such a way people who were their carriers could leave our country. Of course, you understand that shipping, maritime books are a much lower degree of protection than is a passport, and that in this way, especially when it has been found in practice that certain social groups have been issued an unexpected number of these books, we have also had regrets, that this book is being misused as a passport, or as a document used to get out of the country. These changes remain to be issued under special regulations, only by abolishing visas lose the property of the travel document. So, what's the point of this law. Also, other changes are that when a passport is submitted to a child under the age of 12, fingerprints and signatures are not taken. A person who, for objective reasons of temporary character, cannot take fingerprints, is issued a passport with a period of validity of one year. A person who loses two or more passports over a period of five years, within those five years, shall be issued a new passport with a period of validity of one year. So, in no way is he denied the ability to travel, no way does he limit the number of times, if he can get a passport every time. His passport is not denied. He has the right to travel in accordance with the Constitution and our laws. It's only that when someone loses a passport two or more times in five years, it points to certain possibilities of abuse, which is why the passport is then issued for a year. It is clear that the travel document, primarily a passport, is a public document that is issued to the citizen of our country and is used to cross the state border for travel and stay abroad and return to the country, as well as to prove identity, as well as proof of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Violent liability, i.e. a fine of between three and 30 thousand dinars or a prison sentence of up to 30 days for a person who amends deletes or otherwise forgeries personal data entered and electronically entered into the travel document, alters or deletes or otherwise forgeries notes and markings that were subsequently entered into the travel document by officials. With further amendments to this law, we propose that the application for a passport that is handed over in diplomatic and consular representations, the police administration for the City of Belgrade, not all those passports, but only those who do not have a residence in the Republic of Serbia, and that for those who have a residence in RS, these documents are issued in the territory of police administrations where they have a place of residence, which is in fact considered a relief for citizens and for our system. Citizens' relief is seen in that a person who is abroad is left without a travel document does not have to personally apply for a passport if the diplomatic and consular representation can unquestionably determine his identity. In addition, when seeking a passport for a minor child, a parent may apply without the consent of another parent, if the other parent is legally or physically prevented from exercising parental rights. It is clear that the previous travel document is annulled when a new passport is taken over, contributing to additional legal certainty. Also, since we have noticed in practice at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are allowing cancellations, i.e. that diplomatic and official passports which their holders do not return within 60 days of the day of termination of the legal basis for which they are issued can be annulled. It happened that persons who had issued these types of travel documents, at the time that those travel documents had ceased to be issued, the status of a diplomatic person or an official, continued to use these passports and, in such a way, misused the right, or when it came to return under readmission agreements, i.e. country of origin, or after officially declared stay before the competent authorities, declared that the passport had lost, opening up the possibility of creating new flows of irregular migration. So another reason, perhaps not less important, but as the conclusion of this opening part. One of the reasons why we're making these amendments and supplementing the law is by harmonising this law with other laws that have been passed in the meantime. In such a way, it is prescribed that all judicial authorities, not only courts, as so far, but also prosecutors, the MUPs provide information of importance for the refusal of requests for the issue of passports, etc. I think that these amendments are only complemented by the improvement of current laws and that in this way we agree our legislation with European legislation, which increases legal certainty for our citizens and prevents the possibility of abuse, which I was talking about in the previous part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2887	Does the committee officials want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2888	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have this, seemingly, technical law, to amend a number of members of the Law on Travel Documents, but the fact that the Home Secretary is with us today opens up the possibility and talks on various other issues that occupy the public...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2889	Ambassador, let me tell you right now, we're going to talk about the agenda alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2890	I didn't even start talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2891	No, no, because of the announcement, there would be no misunderstanding. Anything else you can do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2892	I can tell you what we're not gonna talk about today. I'd like you to let me finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2893	There's no need to explain, but I like to say we'll talk about the agenda, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2894	I didn't want to talk, probably, about what we're not gonna talk about. What you thought I was going to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2895	You can't even imagine what I was thinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2896	And you've imagined something and you've given yourself the right to interrupt me, or to let me say something, and I wanted to talk about reports from the streets of our cities and roads looking like reports from the front, that every day we have dead people, and that's repeated year after year.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2897	We had an institution of questions, as you know. You're only talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2898	I'd like to talk about how the state is going to fight it, and I didn't want to say what you thought. I don't think these tabloid topics deserve the attention of this home, but there are many serious things that the minister could talk about. You interrupted me in one way that wasn't recorded in parliamentary practice, where I didn't say anything, and you already interrupted me. Okay. I'll talk about the law. There are a few things, and it's a good thing they're changing and defining more precisely now. What has been missed, I think, is that these criminal penalties are not in line with the Law on Violations and this range according to our amendment, which the minister also spoke of, from three to thirty thousand, we have given one amendment to comply with the new Law on Violations, should amount to five to 150 thousand dinars. The most important topic I would like to talk about is the fact that the new law, namely the bill, defines that only from minors over 12 years of age, the issue of passports would take biometric data, which has not been defined so far, there was no limit and there was a different practice. Somewhere children and babies were taken biometric data, somewhere that wasn't the case. What we, as a parliamentary group, have also sought through one amendment, is that those data that are now in the record of travel documents that have been deleted by today, or by the day of the law, if adopted in this way. On the Defense and Home Affairs Committee, I asked what was the Ministry's plan with that data? The answer was that those data were being stored. In terms of law, self-preservation, data storage is considered data processing, and data processing under 12 years of age is contrary to the European Parliament's directive and the Council on the Protection of Citizens. I think it is necessary, in that sense, to accept our amendment, which requires the Ministry to delete these data. We are all witnesses and some MP Gordana Komic spoke this morning about the fact that some data is often coming out of the MUP, about various things. Our concern is that if your data remains in some database, at some point they may be misused. So we ask that these data, which has been collected so far, are collected with a valid law, which is valid today and valid until these changes are adopted, deleted, because we do not see any purpose of keeping them. We think it puts it in danger, opening up the possibility of violating the right to the privacy of minors. With this, it is also important that the 1992 opinion of May of this year on the protection of the child, where it is said that the public authorities' obligation to provide everyone with the protection and privacy and personal data of the child. I do not see any problem with this amendment being adopted, and in accordance with the ministry's position, our parliamentary group will define in the voting day whether or not we will support the amendments to these laws. Also, the minister spoke about it, these changes regulate another issue, which is the issue of diplomatic and official passports of persons whose legal basis for the transmission of such documents has so far been a practice that one number of those persons did not comply with the law and rules returned those documents, but continued to use them and is now predicted that if within 60 days of the termination of the grounds for their use or issue, the ministry could not return the document. What's bad, I think, is that it didn't go into amendments to Articles 9, 10 and 11 that talk about the issue of diplomatic or official passports, which doesn't specify by law who can have diplomatic passports and who can have an official passport. Well, we read in public that the nearer or further relatives of the highest state officials have diplomatic passports that they were issued on the basis of the minister's discretionary right to issue those documents. Then we read or we could hear, there is no precise record of who has all these passports, who has returned them, who hasn't, and I don't think that by not going to the amendments to the law in this part of it one chance has been missed to reduce the discretionary right of the foreign minister who now has that possibility. We are concerned that the current foreign minister, given his custom in the past when he was Minister of the Interior, when he issued ordinary passports with various respectable passports less or more, or I don't know by which criteria, personalities, is now not going to share these diplomatic passports in the same way. Since it wasn't a proposal for these changes and additions, we couldn't suggest any concrete solutions. Hopefully that'll come on the agenda, too. In any case, this law will help the work of the MUP and introduce a larger order, clarify some of the ambiguities that existed. But we believe that this is a question of the personal data of minors who so far exist in the record of the MUP, that is, their destruction is very important and I repeat, in accordance with the ministry's position on our amendment on this issue in the voting day, we will be defined as voting on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2899	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2900	If you allow me in one sentence to say that I am completely dissatisfied with the traffic situation myself. As you can see, the first measures have already been taken. You will see by the end of the week, both the next and the more serious and the other steps we will take to inadmissibly reduce the number of traffic accidents that occur primarily due to speed, alcohol use, on our roads. Unfortunately, we'll use more repressive measures. I hope education will deliver results. However, there are obviously people who understand only when you punish them. That's what we're gonna do. I'm completely in agreement with you in that sense, and I think that's unacceptable. Like you said, there are some things that you've brought out and that are logical. I will accept your amendment to bring the punishment into line with the Law of Infractions, i.e. the punishment between five and 150 thousand dinars. It's completely meaningful and logical. I'm talking to my colleagues, and at first, it seemed logical to me to keep it in the database, i.e. the MAP's records, the biometric data of children under 12 years of age, especially by removing the mandatory taking of passports from this law. There's only one clue. Since these data are taken according to the law and we use them as biometric data for valid passports still in force in RS, whether certain problems would arise for the holders of these passports if it were determined that we cannot confirm any information or cannot verify in the event of any problem, anything, changes in the identity of such a person, because that person then has a passport in which biometric data have been entered. It's the only reason we wouldn't, and I think we can think about the importance of the last passport that was issued, and if it contained such data, those data would be deleted. I think we could work in that sense and make sense. The Home Office doesn't need to have any records of that kind. As far as these other matters are concerned, these passports for the holders of diplomatic and official passports have been issued in accordance with the Foreign Ministry Regulation and as someone who sat in this house I love much more when something is regulated by law rather than regulation, because it is more precise and more binding. There are fewer options, but that's something we still need to talk about. I think we should define a lot of other things about official and diplomatic passports before we define who and how they can get them. I think it certainly remains an interesting topic to discuss, and we are ready for everything that is in the work of the MUP to talk about, because it is good for the regulation of this matter which has shown shortcomings in the previous period, which is also the reason for the adoption of these amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2901	The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2902	Thank you. The law that is before us, the amendment and addition of the Law on travel documents is in the largest number of members who are changing or supplementing other members fully in line with the amendments needed in the previous law, except that it is in line with what are fewer directives or rules of EU custom, it is also in line with the reality in Serbia. Members who allow for a different, or better, more effective and more efficient way to reach a travel document or to communicate with their ministry, if you have a residence and residence in a foreign country, can only have commendable words because it is written right, as well as in provisions that delete an exit visa institute because it is something that only countries who do not understand that their exit visas institute is much more than procedural on the form or in the travel document itself recorded the amount of money or permits. Including the objections made by MP Marko Djurisic, who I agree with, but I can understand why the new Law on Infractions can be considered with the amounts recorded in the amendments and additions of the Law instead of between five and 150 thousand dinars, I have no problem with any other provision other than Article 9. Article 6 The amendment and supplemental proposal is about when you can't get a travel document. As a brief introduction, the travel document is also a human right. It is an area of freedom of movement, and if and by which you can recognise a non-democracy, autocratic of every kind of rule of equality of citizens in front of the citizens of society, these are those societies where it is not usually, routinely, implying that you get a passport and travel wherever you want. Such companies were former eastern bloc societies by 1989. Such societies are still in Asia, there are in Central America, there are in South America. It's a society you come to as a citizen and you say – I'd like to travel there and there, and your country says, I don't trust you. It's got to be seen if you deserve a travel document and if you can even travel anywhere. It's a kind of culture of mistrust towards its own citizens, the demeaning of its own citizens and the attitude that the travel document is a dangerous weapon in the hands of free people. Fortunately, we're far from that kind of society. We were always pretty far away, even at a time when we were a one-party society, except for the time when we had an exit visa institute. So, you want to get out of the country and pay a tax, which was a lot of cartoons to explain to who and why it was happening. That reminds me of how important it is to handle human rights carefully on travel rules. What's the matter with Article 9 of the amendment? It refers to Article 23, which reads in the existing law in two terms. The first position - passport may also be issued with a shorter period of validity than the deadlines laid down in Article 19 of this Act, if the competent court or public prosecutor so permits in the cases laid down in this law. In the second position, in the cases referred to in Article 1 of this Article, passports may be issued for one or more trips to one or more countries. This member with changes and additions changes with two new attitudes. The third position according to the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law says – to a person who, for objective reasons of temporary character, cannot take the fingerprints of a passport, is issued with a period of validity of one year, and the last position – to a person who loses two or more passports in a period of five years, the new passport is issued with a period of validity of one year. The 3rd could be a question, but there's no problem because there's a whole group of people who might not be able to access the fingerprinting process. A travel document publisher knows exactly what faces they are. They are usually not in the country or in countries, abroad in places where you can't print and it's very easy to determine. So there's a woman named Maria Maric, who's in Tibet who can't print her fingerprints at the Embassy in Beijing. That's what's being notified and he gets a passport for a year. However, the last attitude produces many questions, and I also mentioned it to the Committee on European Integration where we discussed this law. I read it once again – a person who loses two or more passports over a period of five years is issued with a period of validity of one year. What's wrong with this attitude? Everything but motive and intent that I don't dispute. My wish was also on the Committee to sort of agree with the representatives of the government to find a good formulation that would remove any suspicion and give all answers to the questions that I will now ask in order. So, you have a face that's in the country, it's not a problem that you can't give fingerprints and it's lost a passport twice and by this attitude, who decides if that face gets a passport for a year. So that's a serious question first. You are introducing one position in a member relating to the general right to the duration of the travel document unless the court or public prosecutor decides on it and asks the person to make a statement that he has lost his passport twice. The face says the spectrum of the reason why it lost its passport is infinite, from not knowing where it lost it to stealing it, through elementary disasters, is probably a long list. Now whoever needs to issue a travel document tells you – this person can only get a passport for a year. There's no procedure. So, if it's me or if it's the same hypothetical Maria Maric who's not in Tibet right now, but she's in Kruševec and she's lost her passport twice, if it's been determined that the loss of her passport is followed by a passport for a year, she has no one to complain about. She doesn't know who made the decision. That's worth it. In this regard, the procedure under which this attitude will apply at the edge of what is subject to quite other laws dealing with security assessments of citizens who do or do something. What's the other problem? If a citizen made a false statement about where he lost his passport, how did he lose his passport? Then they can't be the subject of this law, then they can't be issued a travel document, and they have to be decided by a public prosecutor. Giving a false statement about his travel document is an act that is subject to criminal charges. So, it can't both, I can't and I can't want to prevent manipulation by issuing travel documents and not involve institutions that, by nature, things must be involved in issuing travel documents. With a lack of procedure and a possible adoption of a sublegal act which would regulate it, which is also extremely suspicious from the point of view of procedure, I don't mean anything suspicious, but from the point of view of the procedure which you are governed by some sublegal act by the way in which you will be the person who won't get your passport on, otherwise for everyone other than those who are the decisions of the court and prosecutors in a different group, but you will get a passport in a year. If the sublegal act puts the minister in charge, then I would only be against this law. So you're putting in some form of discretionary authority for anyone to decide that and that because he lost his passport twice, he's eventually going to be decided by the minister. Not because I support or don't support the minister, but because I don't think any minister should do it. Then who's gonna do it? Who's going to decide that these 12 citizens are going to have a year for that and that's why, and everyone else is going to be ten years old. Another problem with this attitude, what happens when he runs out of that year? Did she, now, not lose a whole year, nothing happened, whether he or she is now entering the procedures for issuing passports on a legally prescribed duration of the travel document or remains some special, nowhere visible procedure for citizens who have again entered into the decision that their travel document can only be valid for a year. Very rarely in law enforcement I read the possibility of abuse. I deeply believe that members of the law should be improving the conduct of those to whom the law applies, not vice versa. I think the laws serve better to regulate the sector to which we are concerned and to change the behaviour of us in this sector, and not to serve exclusively the threat of punishment. However, in this article, I see unfortunately the possibility of abuse because I do not see a clean procedure for one who will appreciate that a person has lost a passport more than twice, and the rest past the procedure of giving false testimony. If he gave precise statements, why not give him a passport on the law prescribed by the deadline, that is, a travel document per year as much as for everyone else. This is particularly problematic for people who can be objects and previous attitudes, therefore, are not able for various reasons to give fingerprints. So, to our citizens who live and work abroad, it just opens up the possibility of estimating whether someone needs to or should not be given a travel document on a period of one year. With a desire to try and help, I had a dilemma about whether or not I could stand the amendment at all, because I wanted to arrange a space where it was noticed that you had a bad handling of travel documents by citizens. I don't want Serbia to be seen anywhere as a country where there are more people than in other countries that, under the circumstances, abuse their right to travel or mishandle, illegally handle travel documents. In that sense, I had a dilemma whether or not I could stand the amendment. In the end, I submitted the amendment. I have no hope of being understood by the Government's representative for the amendment, but there is hope that at least this question of my position relating to the lack of procedures on how a passport will be issued within a year will contribute to the most creative possible way of reaching all clear procedures, which will be denied by someone for their otherwise valid right to receive their travel time-limits. I don't want to comment on what you can think of as additional data, except losing passports, so no passport can be issued to the person. We have a lot of experience. We who wanted to travel did not travel, we were traveling, we were looking for visas, we were paying for exit visas. We have a variety of experience with the authorities who are part of the rule of law, who need to do a favor, with us as citizens, issuing travel documents. I don't want two things to be read from this attitude. The first is, at the small door, the process of security assessments on whether or not to be given to a citizen for a year, and secondly, on a small door, denying the citizen to lodge a complaint about what the decision of the representative of the state administration is, i.e. That he can't get a passport for more than a year. What's completely unclear is what happens to those faces' rights after the end of this year? Is he going into normal law or not, who's going to explain it to him and in what way? The part relating to the termination of the validity of the travel documents of diplomatic and official passports is necessary. It is very often that we are making a mistake in public about who makes the decision about who can have a diplomatic passport, which does not realize that the MUP is simply issuing a travel document on when some of the authorised proposing that a person get a diplomatic passport really goes through the procedure, but it is good that the state ceases this message for as many days. If you're into political folklore, you could be given an amendment not to be valid for 40 days, 30 days, 15 days and all that. It's not our goal, but it's important for the state to send a message to respect its own diplomatic passports, because it's a valuable travel document, such as a valuable identification of our own, parliamentary ID. I'm putting it on the level of whether you have self-respect for yourself as the owner of such a travel document, if it's a diplomatic or official passport, or as the owner of a parliamentary ID, if you're elected by the citizens of Serbia to be their voice in the National Assembly. Just because I want to be a voice, I hope that the minister will have answers, at least some of the issues concerning the lack of procedure, when someone reports to you and that a statement that he lost his passport, what happens to that person after a year, how it will all happen, where it is in the MUP and how we make sure that there is no room for abuse, for corruption, and that there is no room for violation and reduction of human rights and all of us whose travel rights are one of human rights, as legislation for Serbia to see freedom of movement as a non-infringing human right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2903	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2904	Dear Mrs. Comic, you've brought a few interesting arguments here and I think it's worth paying attention to. Certainly, fortunate that there are really in the world societies that are restrictive, which deny their citizens the right to leave their country and fortunately that Serbia is not one of those societies. Serbia allows every citizen to get a travel ticket, even those who lose their passport, and you will agree, that someone loses two passports within five years, that it is not a very common case, and I have not heard of any person who did it and who happened by accident. The law stipulates that when a passport is stolen from you, when a passport is torn, when you disappear during the execution of a crime, when it disappears in any other way than to lose it, then the passport is issued normally within a period of ten years as the law provides. He just says that when someone loses a passport within five years, two or more times, and the practice of the ministry, I'm a minister for just over 30 days, the practice that all these years people have shown was that there were a lot of people who deliberately threw their passports, so that they couldn't prove their identity abroad and then sought out, or pose as fake asylum seekers and asked for such status to be recognised. So, they didn't even want to report it when they didn't throw it away, they just advertised it as gone, and that's more than once. In almost all these cases, it was an attempt to abuse, and sometimes it's hard to prove, but you have a mechanism that someone who gets a passport in this way for a year, then is reissued if he doesn't lose it in that year, and then his passport is issued again for 10 years. The passport shall be issued by the Board of Administrative Affairs of the Ministry of the Ministry of Administrative Affairs, i.e. they shall conduct a procedure in which the passport is issued and, knowingly, a duly authorised official who issues, in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, against that decision, can therefore be held in the court of jurisdiction. Therefore, every person in this proceedings has the right to appeal to the court and the court as the primary institution that gives its judgment on this, as the last one, which decides on this, may decide to amend that decision and the ministry is obliged to do so. So it's about the Administration, it's not about the minister's discretionary will, because the minister has no role in this business, he's not even informed about it. As far as the law itself is concerned, the European Commission has given a positive opinion on this law, even on this position, because this stance has been taken from some countries already EU members and European legislation treats it as something positive. I think our goal is to bring as many of our provisions as possible into line with the provisions that the European Commission and other European countries consider positive and thus reduce the possibility of abuses that unfortunately make up some of our citizens. That's exactly why we decided to do this. I assure you that no one at the Ministry, especially what professionals, who have been doing this work for many years and regardless of any political option, represented by the minister or anyone else in the ministry, and do these jobs in a way to make it possible to legalize and try to prevent as many abuses as possible. For this reason, I think, if they have estimated that this is something that the practice has shown as good, as a mechanism of prevention and prevention, and you know that the law says that the travel document holder or any other personal document, it is required to take care of the travel document, or not to allow another person to come into possession or to be abused or used in the execution of a criminal or any other act, that we also warn all those who have a travel document and take care of what they do with travel documents. When you disappear once, it can happen to any man, to lose his passport, to get a new one, that's normal. If in five years you happen to lose your travel papers twice, and I don't know any person to whom it happened by accident, then it raises doubt whether you did it and then the state doesn't deny you, not even treat you, or conduct any criminal action against you or anything like that. The state says, okay, but then we issue you a travel document with a shorter period of validity, and after that period of one year, we're giving you a travel document again with a normal period of validity. It's based on the law. I think this is a measure that will increase, that is, reduce the number of abuses and increase the legal certainty of our country and thus strengthen this law. As far as official, or diplomatic travel documents are concerned, that's what we were talking about at the beginning. In this case, the law provides for diplomatic passports to be issued by the MUP. The Home Office has nothing to do with it. The Institute for making bills printed forms, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issues them. The interior ministry with diplomatic passports has no contact, except for the fact that the issue provision is within the framework of this law, and the foreign ministry regulation defines, the way and the right to use diplomatic passports.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2905	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2906	Thank you. Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Travel Documents, and you, among other things, said that it was about a law adopted on 1 October 2007 and that was one of the key conditions for visa liberalisation. You also mentioned, and we fully agree, that this is about a law that allowed the highest possible level of legal protection of travel documents. What I also want to remind you once again, and that's what you were talking about in the opening statement, a total of some 4,850,000 travel documents have been issued since the adoption of the law to date. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to say very clearly that the SPS Parliament Club will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the Law on Road Fixes and by supporting this legislative proposal we actually want to support that intention, the intensity of the legislator, which is that the regulations of the Republic of Serbia comply with EU rules in this very important and important area I would also say about Serbia, but above all for the citizens of Serbia. The proposed amendments and additions that we are talking about today, if we look at the provisions and articles that change or supplement, if we look at the parts of this law that change, we can say that they are fully justified, that they are understandable, concrete, clear and accurate, and for that reason they will also have in the day to vote the support of the SPS parliamentary club. So, these amendments and the amendments to the Law on Travel Documents, as you also pointed out during the opening presentation, cease to apply, or there will be no exit visas issued by the Republic of Serbia to its citizens, and this in some ways represents the harmonisation of this part of the law, i.e. these provisions and members with EU rules, because EU law does not recognise the institution of exit visas. Simply, the Institute of exit visas defines as a restriction on freedom of movement. Therefore, the suspension and absence of exit visas ceases to exist both ship and maritime documents, so that those who possess these documents in the next period of time and will be able to travel only by passport. As regards the harmonisation of the existing law and of certain provisions and members of the law with EU rules, Article 14 should also be observed in this direction and in this context. That's what it was already about. I mean Article 14 of the proposed amendments to the law, and it's about leaving fingerprints on persons who, for objective reasons, are unable to do so, as well as children under the age of 12. So, these changes and additions won't have to leave a fingerprint or a signature when applying. Also, what I want to point out is that the adoption of these proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on travel documents removes in some way the shortcomings observed in practice and simplifys the procedure through the elimination of these shortcomings. In particular, when it comes to Article 13 of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on travel documents, we think that this solution is very good, that it is practical, that it is effective, that it simplifies the procedure and that it refers specifically to getting a passport when all necessary and all necessary conditions are established. It is also our opinion that the proposed amendments and amendments to the travel documents law are made clearer, or more specifically, to define certain procedures concerning this law. For example, Articles 15 and 16 of the proposed amendments and additions are prescribed and conditions are specified when travel documents are annulled. The SPS Parliament Club particularly appreciates and supports the intention of the legislators of this law, which is dedicated and directed above all towards the protection, use and delivery of data contained in travel documents. It is important that this proposal is clearly defined and explained in order to avoid possible misuse of data contained in personal documents, i.e. containing personal documents. What I also want to point out, and I think it is very important, is that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents in one way create a legal option, i.e. a legal basis for the realization of one, I would say, a fully justified initiative initiated by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Foreign Affairs Minister Ivica Dacic, which concerns exactly what was said during today's presentation, which is the withdrawal of diplomatic passports among individuals who simply stopped the existence of a legal basis for the possession of a diplomatic passport. A little while ago, it was about who could get a diplomatic passport. Mr. Minister, I think there's a government regulation that very clearly defines who can get a diplomatic passport. I'm gonna have to read it so I don't convince you. The diplomatic passport is issued: the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister, the Vice Prime Minister, the Ministers, the President of the Constitutional and Supreme Court, the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the Chief of Staff, the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a valid explanation and us, representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Prosecutor for War Crimes, the Presidents of the Assembly, the Executive Councils of the AP and the Head of Civil and Military Security Service. It can be issued with a valid, adequate explanation and representatives of international organisations, or ambassadors of goodwill. So there is a regulation by which the Government of the Republic of Serbia is very clear and precisely defined to whom a passport can be issued, but there is another part of the Regulation that says that the passport ceases to be valid the moment the function stops. I don't think this part applies to the President of the Republic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Foreign Minister. Despite these facts, a large number of those who today do not have the right to retain a diplomatic passport and have not returned a diplomatic passport. I believe that some 3,218 diplomatic passports with five-year duration were issued between June 2009 and April 2013. As an MP's club, given that this is mainly the case today, we support the initiative to review the decisions that have been taken a long series of back and regarding the allocation of diplomatic passports, to make one revision of these decisions many years ago and, if it is determined that certain individuals do not have a valid explanation for the assignment of the diplomatic passport, then it should certainly be taken away. The amendments and additions of the members of this law that we are talking about today create a legal basis and these amendments represent one legal support for the realisation of this important initiative. Therefore, if the travel document does not return, the competent authority will, under official duty, declare an invalid travel document within 60 days. Also, during the debate, there were words about how Mr Dacic, as interior minister, assigned passports, was not told to whom. For the sake of the public, in my presentation, I must say that Mr Dacic, as Minister of the Interior, assigned passports but that citizenship, on the issue of citizenship, on the assignment of passports, of course, there was one consensus, one agreement with the complete government of the Republic of Serbia. So there was no initiative, there was one legal basis and agreement within the government of the Republic of Serbia. What I'm also saying is, it is true that these amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents introduce one additional legal certainty and that they agree, that is, are one kind of alignment of this law with the new laws that have been passed over the past period of time. Definitely, in one sentence, at the very end, these amendments and additions want to perfect the existing law adopted in 2007, to bring legal certainty, to bring parts and provisions of this law into line, which is important, with EU regulations. Once again, in Voting Day, the SPS parliamentary club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2907	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2908	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS parliamentary group will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Travel document for three basic reasons. First of all, this bill sets out to bring our legislation in the field of travel documents into line with the EU's legal assets. As Mr. Minister said, as other colleagues have said, the institute so-called. exit visas and thus our legislation is in line with four basic principles of the EU, when it comes to freedom of movement. It's about freedom of movement of people, goods, capital and services. I think this is one of the most important laws on the road to Serbia's EU accession. The second reason we will support this bill lies in the fact that it strengthens sanctions. More specifically, a new infringement is envisaged by introducing, on the one hand, a new institute which is in conformity with the Law on Violations, which entered into force on 1 March of this year, which is an attempt on the part of the infringement, and on the other hand, a new infringement that prescribes that one who amends, deletes or otherwise forgers personal data which are entered and electronically entered into the travel document, or alters, deletes or otherwise forgers the notes and markings that were subsequently entered into by the official persons in the travel document. Therefore, on the one hand, there is a tightening of sanctions against those who abuse the right to possess travel documents. That's another reason. The third reason, which is related to this other, is to introduce benefits and benefits for, I would say, the security holders of travel documents, for the safe citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are the holders of our travel documents, among other things, and that it is prescribed that a child who is under 12 years of life is not to be given fingerprints, i.e. not to be asked to sign on a request for a travel document, such as for citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are looking for a travel document, more specifically a travel document from diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Serbia abroad. So these are three basic reasons why the SNS will support this bill in the voting day. I'd just like to say a few sentences about Article 9. I think the minister explained it very nicely. I believe that nothing is disputed in the provision of Article 9 amending Article 23. It's a travel law. It is a matter of persons who lose two or more passports over a period of five years, and then it is prescribed that the new passport is issued with a period of validity of one year. I don't think they're right colleagues who see in this provision the possibility of any abuse by the MUP because this is not the case, and the minister stressed this, that some citizen of the Republic of Serbia who is carrying our travel document committed any crime or offence. Simply, this provision encourages citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are the bearers of our travel documents to pay particular attention to their travel documents. If we allow someone within five years to lose a travel document 10 times, then the question can be raised whether such a citizen is safe? It's not about him committing a crime. It is not that he gave a false statement, that in any way he misused a travel document, but on the other hand, it is that he is not safe enough, that he is not careful enough, and that travel documents are in every country, and also in the Republic of Serbia, an extremely important kind of public documents. It is a public document that allows you to leave the territory of the Republic of Serbia to return to it. I think it is good that the state, or the MUP, through one such provision encourages citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be safer when it comes to the use of their travel documents. I don't think it's appropriate to find out some colleagues that you don't know what the further procedure is when that period of one year is passed for a person who, over a period of five years, lost his travel papers two or more times. The minister explained that when a period of one year expires, such persons are subject to the regime that was in force before that, so they can apply neatly for a new travel document to be issued and then the travel document is issued to that period of validity that applies otherwise to all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is not true and the SNS does not see that any part of the procedure for issuing travel documents in this situation is unclear. We don't see any possibility of abuse by the MAP. On the contrary, I think that such a provision was necessary before to introduce it into our legal system, because travel documents to this extent are important personal documents that they really need to be handled carefully and securely, and if someone loses his travel document two or more times over a period of five years, then the question can really be raised – is such a citizen of the Republic of Serbia sufficiently safe and careful? We do not see anything wrong in this, and we support the introduction of this provision in amendments to the laws on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents. Once again, the SNS MPs will support this bill in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2909	We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the principled search. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2910	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister Stefanovic. I am pleased to see you in this high house that you, Mr Stefanovic, in the opinion of the majority not only of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also of the MPs, as well as of the opposition, as well as of the positions, extremely well, not to say phenomenally, chaired and led. I hope that the current president will earn these words at the end of the term of office. This, in my opinion, is your second arrival in this high house since the government's election. So, in this short time, it speaks of the activities of both your ministry and you as minister. Although you were extremely active in these unfortunate floods that struck our people, your ministry and you have shown a true face in these activities, so thank you very much. I'm sure the citizens of Serbia will know that they appreciate it, Mr. Minister. We have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents. As my predecessor said, the point of change and addition is to abolish the so-called. exit visas, i.e. visas that the Republic of Serbia gives its citizens. Why are we doing this? Because European law does not know the Institute of exit visas. In a way, they also limited the freedom of movement of people. Since we have signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European partners and its members, then this bill should indeed be adopted as soon as possible, because it is in the widest interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The European Union established its internal market in 1993. It is one of the EU's greatest achievements. The EU's internal market is based on four freedoms. These are freedom of movement of goods, freedom of movement of people, services and freedom of movement of capital etc. By removing visas in this law, it ceases to exist both ship and maritime documents, in which a visa is entered as a type of travel document, and the holders of these documents will use a simple passport. By harmonising this problem of travel documents with EU regulations, it is particularly in the work relating to the fingerprinting process of a person who cannot be taken for specific objective reasons, as well as the regulation of provisions not to take fingerprints on a child under 12 years of age or the signature when applying for travel documents. The possibility for such persons to be issued a passport with a shorter period of one year is then predicted. It also introduces a criminal liability for those who change, modify, delete personal data on a travel document. Finally, all in all, this proposal should be adopted and voted in favour of it in the voting day, because this will make a small contribution to further harmonising the rules of the Republic of Serbia with EU rules entered into the Law on Road Fixes. The law is crucial as you, one of the key ministers, have said, for the condition of our country in the EU. We are also taking part in the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which is one of the main tasks of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, presented in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, during the government's election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2911	The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2912	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Mr. MPs, it is an honor and pleasure to be here today with Mr. Secretary. Thank you for the time you've devoted to us, but just so you know, in all possible circumstances, the SNS is always standing by you. It's a great honor for you to do what you do for our Serbia. Today we are talking about a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents. The legal basis for the adoption of this law is Article 97 paragraph 1 2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for adopting this law are as follows: harmonising the rules of the Republic of Serbia with the harmonisation of EU rules and its amendments and additions. Exit visas are abolished, as an institution that is unknown to the EU, which represents a form of restrictions, according to them, freedom of movement of people. One of the EU's greatest achievements is the creation of an internal market that was established in 1993. The internal market is based on four freedoms: freedom of movement of goods, people, services and capital, and, among other things, we are harmonising the law in question with EU rules. The restrictions on the free movement of people are still possible for the following reasons: public order and security, health protection and public service employment. The suspension of visas in the law in question ceases to exist in the existence of a shipping and maritime document, in which a visa as a type of travel document has been entered, but from now on the holders of such travel documents will travel with a simple passport. The next alignment between the EU and the Republic of Serbia is precisely taking fingerprints, if possible. If it is not possible to take a fingerprint, the travel document is assigned to the holder for a year, which I think is very correct. The next harmonisation of the EU and the Republic of Serbia concerns the rights of the child, i.e. the child is not fingerprinted, as the child is not signed. The travel document is a public document with an electronic data carrier. The passport does not contain an electronic carrier. The travel document also serves as proof of the identity of the Republic of Serbia. There are several travel documents. It's a passport, diplomatic passport, official passport, passport, travel documents. A passport is issued by the police department at the MUP. A diplomatic passport is issued by the police administration, but a passport is issued by the diplomatic or consular representation of the Republic of Serbia. A person who can't get a fingerprint is given a passport for a year. Also, persons who lose a passport over a period of five years two or three times, which I think is not quite normal, are issued a one-year passport. It is very important to say that there is a pattern when filling passports. It's clear to everyone, whoever had a travel document of any kind. So this form consists of some of the characteristics of the tax numbers: name, last name, gender, citizenship, unique home number of citizens. In order to obtain a travel document, it is necessary to provide with a full form a personal document, whether it is an old travel document or a ID card. Disposal of travel documents happens often, and that is, if the travel document is given to someone else for use, if it is read that the data is not valid, that they do not belong to the person who gave the information, if that person has two or three passports. The sanctions are as follows: the penalty is between 3,000 and 30,000 dinars and for 30 days. It is very important to say that all these travel documents and this harmonisation of the law, since we are in European integration, should be supported by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in the day for the vote of the SNS will support these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2913	The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2914	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I would like to take the opportunity to take the opportunity as a national MP from Vranj, who is here in parliament thanks to the vote of 23,000 people for SNS in Vranj, to welcome the minister of police, to express the confidence of a large number of Vranjac that you are the right man in the right place, that the choice of Prime Minister to be the interior minister was one of the moves that have my full support. You've shown in 30 days that you're a man who loves this country, that you're a man who knows how to do his job and who I want another term, given that you started one very serious, difficult job. What we are here for today in this assembly is that you have made a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on travel documents. The colleagues gave their opinion on this proposal very detailedly, they said of each member individually what the new one brings. What is generally and most important, the rapporteur of our parliamentary group, Mr Martinovic, presented and introduced the details to the public. What is important for all of us MPs, and more importantly for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is that this is another step towards the EU path. By amending and supplementing this law, we are taking a small step towards the EU, but a big step for the Republic of Serbia, given that this assembly of parliament is very likely to adopt all the laws that are needed and prescribed by the Agenda for EU Entry, in order to create conditions for us to be a full member of the EU in 2018 or that from 2018 to 2020, our request has been adopted by the EU members since we have met all the requirements set before us. I'd just like to say one thing about the criminal provisions that are foreseen here, ranging from three to thirty thousand dinars. I believe that these penalties must be increased and must be accompanied by the Law on Violations, which entered into force on 1 March 2014. I expect the Ministry and Mr. Minister to adopt amendments that are given in this regard and I am sure that in the Day of Vote, as a SNS and as a parliamentary group, we will adopt this law with our vote and support Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2915	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milorad Cvetanovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2916	Dear President, Mr. Minister Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, I will talk about the draft law on amendments to the Law on travel documents. The essence of the law on amendments and additions to this law, among other provisions, on how to issue a travel document, in certain cases in travel documents, consists of concrete and very prominent objectives for Serbia's laws to be in line with EU laws, which simply do not recognise the concept of an exit visa. In fact, it is a visa that the state of Serbia issues to its citizens. The date they date I couldn't find exactly. On this occasion, I would take advantage of the possibility, because of the full informing of the citizens of Serbia, given that it is a very interesting regulation or law, most likely from a less recent period, to refer the question to the Ministry of the Interior – since when does it actually date? Discuss their abolition, I think it is extremely unnecessary, given that in the EU, which we no doubt seek as a state and society as a whole, a long time ago or perhaps never found that concept in travel documents laws. As a modern, European, market-oriented society, which seeks a free and zero-limited right to move people, goods, services and capital, I cannot help but mention that we have had a very difficult time introducing a visa regime with the countries of Western Europe. The issue of new biometric passports, starting on July 7th 2008, with an electronic carrier, for the purposes of automatic data-reading, was only one of the preconditions for abolishing the visa regime with us traffic and goods most frequent countries, EU countries. Since 19 December 2009, we have established a visa-free regime and entered the ranks of countries that, with the right, hope and impatience, expect to join the order of the most developed countries of this part of the world. In general, the visa-free regime is a very sensitive thing. I am using this opportunity as a request from the Ministry of the Interior to prevent, in any way, the unnecessary and per-state Serbian very harmful phenomenon – the inflow of asylum seekers from our territory into the EU country, which can be very badly interpreted and by introducing a new visa regime causing major consequences for the country's economy. Termination of the so-called I also consider the ship's travel documents and their replacement for the regular and legislation of the prescribed travel documents, as well as for all other citizens, a very useful bill, given that we have witnessed in a very small number of cases of their multiple abuses in the era of visa regime with EU countries. By absolute and unreserved visa waiver, given the current duration of stay in EU countries of 90 days and after that by leaving the EU country in the same time period, I am sure that in this case the reduction of the number of travel documents lost and damaged, as well as for their abuse, will be negligible. The ID cards used by all EU citizens and which are their only valid identity document are, I sincerely hope, our very near future, so hopefully, for the sake of society in general, that we will soon have this bill, which is before us today, behind us. On the basis of everything said, I call on the Members of the People to support, accept and vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Corrections in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2917	Thank you. Mr. Milan Stevanović is in the system. Looks like it's a mistake. The People's Messenger Riza Halimi has the word, and let the People's Messenger Gordana Komic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2918	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, at the beginning, I would like to welcome the proposal to lift the exit visa. The previous speaker raised that topic when and from what time the obligation was present. For the first time, I learned about it in the early 1990s, at a time when it began to communicate more intensely with Albania and when people in the Presevo area, Bujanovac, could go to Albania. At the time, there was an ongoing exit visa issued by the MUP, and there was a problem with this issue. I thought it had been lifted a long time ago because in practice it wasn't a problem for a long time. It is quite right to finally break up with some unacceptable practice and to break up formally with such obligations, with which it has been a valid provision so far. I would expect that the amendment will help to improve certain provisions towards the full application of the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. Here, above all, I mean the areas of applying the letter and the language of minorities. There are still these problems in practice, although not directly now in the procedure when the authorities of the MUP issue passports, but indirectly through documents issued in the parent services. That's what I said when we discussed the Protector's report, that the bigger problem for Presevo, Bujanovac, in the event that personal documents were issued in general, was performed by the born and other documents in Vranje. Is it because Presevo, Bujanovac has its statutes regulated the official use of Albanian language and letters, and Vranje has no such obligation, but the fact is that most of the citizens born in the Vranj hospital, at the maternity hospital in Vranj, are given birth certificates in Vranj. Then we have this practice of not applying the legal provision on writing the name and last name in a minority letter, in this case to the Albanian letter, and then it is reflected in the travel document, because the travel document is issued on the basis of documentation issued by the parent services. I think that through the amendment it is possible to obtain precision and to make practice more effective in the direction of full implementation of the provisions of the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters. Finally, I would like to mention this problem regarding the travel documents of false asylum seekers. It has been known for several years that besides Roma and Albanians from Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedje, they were also more involved in the phenomenon, as it is officially, not only from our government, but also from the international community, I find it unwarranted to use the term false asylumist. They are existing, looking for a solution in European countries, and others in my view, a more correct term not to meet the conditions for political asylum. That's another problem. But these are the specific individuals who are looking for solutions to their life problems in this way. The Protector's report has concerns about certain restrictions that occur when crossing the border for such persons, precisely because of this phenomenon and in terms of suppressing this phenomenon. I think visa liberalisation just helped reduce the number of asylum seekers from our country. In no case should things take place in the direction of finding a solution, removing the danger of returning to the former regime and abolishing visa liberalisation because people are seeking asylum. I think it's since the introduction of asylum, it's my impression that there are fewer people seeking asylum, because they've been looking for illegal, with far more difficult procedures, with sometimes very tragic consequences. So the orientation would have to go in the direction of solving problems in the root, where the problem arises, and that's solving the unemployment problem... (President: Time, Mr. Halimi. ) In this direction, the EU should also help the country solve these problems, that citizens are looking for solutions in their hometowns, not to go around the white world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2919	Thank you. The word is by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, minister in the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2920	There are a few things. The first thing, those people who really seek asylum do so for the reasons set out in their request for an explanation, and most often these are political motives, which the EU country recognises. The term "false asylum seekers" is used for those people who have no reason to seek asylum. You can't give me a reason for asylum, my salary is low in my country of origin, so I'd like to ask for asylum from yours. It is an abuse and that is what all EU countries say, I do not say. These people are trying to abuse the mechanisms that exist in European countries to gain some property benefit, to resolve their own question, in that sense, which is causing fundamental damage to us, because we view ourselves as a country that is not in a safe way solved. We have worked with EU countries in different ways, so that Serbia can get the status of a safe country. After that, the procedure for considering, so they don't stop, they just accelerate, and then these procedures are very clear. When a German finds that he is a false asylumist, it is not determined by the Republic of Serbia, it sends him and says this is a false asylumist. These people are fake asylum seekers, so you have to agree with me if he says so, for example. Germany, if Austria says so, if Luxembourg says so, if the countries in which we had it say, the most people that these countries found to be false asylum seekers, because the reasons for the asylum they listed in their applications were either non-existent or false. Of course, that was the reason why that's how it's done. Is there a lot of people among them who have unresolved working legal status, whether they're people who are poor, you're probably right. Of course we should work to improve every citizen of this country's material status, but that doesn't mean that he should, under that pretext, seek asylum in another country, under a false pretext, and essentially fight for something completely different, that's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2921	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. The next registered MP, Nedo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2922	Thank you. The contribution of the various of us who have participated so far in the debate is Article 9 and the intentions and motives and a proposal for a solution, than I am in the opening presentation, but independently of that, carefully following everything the fellow MPs have said, the ministers seem to be much better for you, when I attack you than when others defend you, but well that is the folklore of our institution. So it's less about asylum seekers when it comes to Article 9's second position in amendments and additions. However you set up a procedure to solve this problem as it is written in the law is flawed. Your answer that it will be the subject of administrative proceedings, so they will complain, and in a second-degree solution, so on and so forth, does not remove the deficiency, because it does not provide equality before the law based on the court or the prosecution's remarks, analysis that the person has lost more than twice, and therefore cannot receive a passport for more than a year. I fully agree with you that we have an obligation when we have already voted on this right to obtain travel documents to have the obligation to keep it and that this is a matter of our own conscience, and that this is what I was talking about, and that it is a matter of obligation that we are obliged to pay attention to our travel document. But it can't be that we're not security people being subject to the law, at least not this one here. That's the main problem. It seems to me, I'm not sure if I can say entirely that even as it's set up, it won't help us in the intention that it's good because you have to show credibility to the EU, which is to prevent people from abuseing one of the precious human rights as well. The right to asylum is a precious human right that we must protect, protect, improve and with us, and in all cases when we participate in international institutions to discuss that a person without travel documents has come to a territory. Why do I insist on this article? Because in the years ahead of us where you will also be Home Secretary, we will be a country with an increased inflow of asylum seekers. Crossroads, conflicting social events have moved east, we are inside the EU, regardless of the status that is not full membership, it will come and come when we really change everything in our country, so it is all one that is the date of formal membership. But we'll be the land people from the Caucasus will come to, across Central Asia to the Far East. If we consider it a way to send a message to those who are leaving our country to other EU countries by pretending that they are politically endangered here, that they do not have political freedoms and rights, asking for political asylum, because that is the only way there is. I'm very sorry that in the media we have fossils that adopt, so it's about economic asylum, it doesn't exist. There are migrations, there are migrants and there are regulations against full capacity for migrant rights or for full capacity for migrant rights, but it is a completely different sector. Azil can only be political. It means that my life is threatened because I have a political attitude, my family is threatened, everything is threatened because I have a political attitude, because the state in which I live doesn't allow freedom or rights, or doesn't allow everyone equally, or doesn't allow just some. There is no economic asylum. It's a waste of talking about people trying to replace these two things, because political asylum is political asylum. How are we going to reduce the number of asylum seekers like this? So, the provision only makes sense if, in the follow-up of the co-operation with the EU that I welcome, there is information that one who comes to the border with a period of validity of the passports for a year, that the services that are otherwise engaged in the inflow of asylum seekers pay particular attention to him or her. Then you put people in that group who failed to explain in the administrative procedure that they were once stolen, which may have been, and perhaps not the question of their safety, and the second time the flood took away their passport, and the third time, I don't know, I don't know, I'm already stuck moving. I'm not saying this because I know people who did it or because I don't know people who did it. When an article is analysed, then you see how it will apply to the people to whom this provision is meant to happen. Which means, without an explanation, you have a situation that someone who is for these three reasons in the administrative procedure, and you said, didn't give or didn't give a false statement, but three times is three times and can get a passport for a year. She or he will not seek political asylum, but he will enter into the procedure of all those with whom co-operation has been established we have introduced this into provisions and we want to reduce the total number of people who, due to insufficiently good application of the law, abuse one precious human right such as political asylum. We want to remain credible in front of the EU, to be a safe country, and we want to have a partner relationship with the countries where our citizens are going, to know who these people are and what's going on. The problem with human rights is double, and in our society it's triple. We don't have a culture of human rights. We don't advocate the culture of human rights, because we don't understand how important it is. Another problem is that human rights have no hierarchy. All human rights are such that you either respect them and apply them, or some of them break. The third is that human rights have been violated. If you only have one case of someone who is going to own a travel document based on Article 4 of this new law with a period of validity of one year, because they get it three times, or they get it three times, and when you answer it, in which case they won't be allowed to be given an I.D., then you're talking in favor of my argument. There's actually no procedure. This attitude is on the verge of what's called a security assessment of a person, which is usually done when a person is employed, so it's a condition to do a security assessment, so that he can do some work in the state administration, in institutions, organizations, wherever you want, because you have to collect information about that person. If it is a person who has three times, four times lost a travel document, you are not looking for him or, based on a false statement, you are assessing that he could be in a group of people who will seek political asylum and thus create a problem for us as a country and country he travels to, because he does not make precise remarks about having political asylum, but it will be a problem, so you will also appreciate whether he might belong to that group. It can't be an administrative procedure. If it's just one person that this attitude is going to be wrong about, then our problem is huge. I do not advocate not to create a mechanism to say, well, we are weak in the application of the travel documents law, it is weak in control, because there are very many people who say it is not my job, so we have a lot of people in EU countries who say they are from Serbia and are looking for political asylum. Far from trying to advocate this condition, but it is my duty, first of all, to warn myself that in the application of such a member of the law, unnecessary problems may arise which we already have, to increase, rather than reduce. A particular problem is travellers and travel document holders, divorced parents, where one of the parents with a child lives either abroad or here. If this provision applies to one of them, then your problem doubles. When I look at any member of the law, I repeat, I rarely speak of abuses, I believe that the law can only be misused by one who is obliged to apply the law. I can break the law as a citizen, regardless of whether it's a crime, or it's a crime, and then I'm subject to sanctions one or the other, but abuse can only be done by one who sits in the administration, who sits in the ministry, in the National Assembly. Therefore, I note the importance that a very detailed idea like this is established to control the overall number of documents that are not known where they are. The particular problem is that, if we adopt this in the current text and if all those who have already used the mechanism of deliberate passport loss, without being sanctioned by any regulation that applies to it, if it is adopted in such a way, you will get what is coming to us, in the country, people without any travel documents, and that problem, if they do not keep at the level at which it is, then can increase it. I am not sure whether it is possible by means of a sublegal act, as I wish in this case we had respected the resolution on the legislative activity of the National Assembly, which we all voted for, which obliges each applicant, to submit a proposal for a sublegal act, with a draft law or to give an explanation why he is unable to submit a proposal for a sublegal act. In June of last year, we adopted it in common with the voices of all of us, believing it to be good for control and for the possibility for all of us to explain to people how the law is going to apply. If the clarification of this position ends in being submitted, or adopted, a sublegal act, then it will be necessary for the Committee on European Integration, at least where I am a member and on a committee that directly oversees and controls the work of the MUP, to explain how this sublegal act will be applied. I still have a dilemma about whether to vote for this law or not. I do not have a dilemma about whether you will accept my amendment because my amendment implies that in changes and additions this last position is left out, that it remains a position on persons who, due to temporary circumstances, cannot give a fingerprint, but as in any other case, when it comes to human rights, when it comes to the fact that this is not against citizens, that they remain secure when it comes to their travel documents and that this is one of the mechanisms to establish credible mutual control with EU countries when it comes to asylum seekers repeating this unconscious sin, losing travel documents. So we can be sure that we will closely monitor the application of this law with great hope that no single case will appear which, as there are cases quite obviously in other sectors, has indicated the will of the state authorities to violate human rights, because I am sure that in our society, a culture of human rights will be built, that we will understand how precious the mechanism is, that we really have a good feeling shared between us in society that we are equal to the law and that all of our rights recorded in the Constitution and in the laws are respected. In the Constitution and in the laws that prescribe the way in which the travel document is held and used, there is a legal time limit for which it is issued. Any reduction in the legal period must be justified either by a court decision or by a prosecutor's decision or by so clearly clear in any sublegal act that it will remove any suspicion that the one who is to apply the law will be the first to abuse it. I don't want us to have any evidence like that to testify, because the damage is common. Then it is not seen whether it is a person whose human rights have been violated, a person of such or such political convictions, opposition or authority, a man or a woman, a Roma, an Albanian, a Serb, a Croat, a Russian, whoever, but who sees what is essentially human rights, that they are violated by human rights in a law that these same human rights should protect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2923	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2924	First, I have to tell you about the passports that are actually lost. To define this, a key statement by a person who claims in his written statement that the passport is lost is a key statement. So there's no doubt whether the passport is lost. This case is not considered to be the case when the flood takes away his passport, when he picks it up, or when during the execution of any criminal act of the passport, which, of course, the person reports to the competent authority, disappears in such a way. This is not considered to be the disappearance of the passport, but it is known exactly how the loss of the passport occurred. This is about people who claim by their statement that they lost their passport and when you have five such statements in five years, then you realize something's wrong. Not to go into those arguments we've already exchanged. As regards the procedure, when the competent authority finds that the person has made a false statement or that in any other way violated the law, the proceedings shall be brought against that person. It will be common practice in accordance with the law. You're right that we have to make sure that we never harm the rights of any person, but that's where we can come in for political debate. Are we then sending a message that it is okay for all Serbian citizens to lose visa liberalisation and is it okay to lose their ability to travel outside the country tomorrow because a number of people deliberately misused their rights and thus hurt us and leave people without being able to travel without a visa, for example? in EU countries? Since the law already exists in European legislation, and the European Commission has not found that anywhere is missing with any human rights. If the European Commission in any way considered this to be out of line with human rights, I believe it would distract us. So, following the serious remarks they had on different laws, this law with such solutions came across positive assessments by the European Commission and is already in the legislation of other European countries. I don't think we should be more Catholic than the Pope. If these people found it appropriate that it was in accordance with all human rights, then that's what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2925	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Right on line, MP Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2926	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to complement the one about this fake asylum and to realize that this use of this term is, in fact, after visa liberalisation and the threats that have come from certain EU countries that, possibly due to an increased number of asylum seekers, visa liberalisation, which I find quite unwarranted. In my view, visa liberalisation has affected that this problem of humanism, however, is being implemented into more normal flows compared to earlier occurrences and even organised crime, when illegal departures and border crossings have been made possible along with the fermented prices. In most cases, when people go this way according to these conditions, visa lobbies are two co-principal motives – looking for jobs they can't get in the birthplace or even in the country where they live and health reasons, when in our health system they don't find a solution, so in the European state they try to find that solution. There are probably those that the minister is talking about, who have other motives, and they're classic abusers of the situation. That is why I have proposed that in situations like this, when visa liberalisation humanises this problem, a more adequate, more appropriate way of solving the problem than European countries, but also from our legislative system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2927	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2928	I agree. We work with European countries, but do you know what the problem is? There's a lot of people doing it the way I mentioned it, trying to abuse it. That it's two, three faces a month, so to speak, it's a lot more people who go for health or for some other reason. Well, they can do it through their own country's health system. Azil is looking for someone who's doing it for political reasons. It's not really political reasons, it's some other reason I'm not getting into the lab right now. It's just that it was essentially a problem. That problem wasn't first identified by us. He was identified by other EU countries that drew attention to us and they complained. You know, when Germany, Luxembourg, Austria, Belgium, these countries have mechanisms that tolerate any application for political asylum and put those people in place, as we have an obligation to do, but when they find that it is not in accordance with the law and when it is not done in good faith, they react. With these measures, we try to reduce that number of cases, namely to warn people that by our prevention we do not put them in a position so easily to abuse them. Otherwise, we're not jeopardizing anyone's rights. Everyone has the right to a travel document. He can leave the country whenever he wants, but he can't try to abuse it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2929	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2930	Thank you. Quite briefly, since it's more or less, it seems to me to be a matter of misunderstanding. So, you can't oppose the right of all of us to live in a society where there is visa liberalisation with the right of one human being who forges a passport or loses it five times or lies at the border or does whatever he wants. These two things can't be in conflict, because our country is responsible for both equally. I'm just trying to give it as an argument, not doubting that the people in the MUP who are in charge of this will do their job in accordance with the law. I also said in the first part, I rarely speak and read the laws, with the desire to read that abuse, but I always read the laws to see how they would apply to a human being. I think it's a common task for all of us. There can be no opposition to human rights. We, who consider it necessary to live in a society and state without visas and within the EU, are not at risk of someone lying about their passport. Our rights may be compromised by the state administration, which the state system, whoever you want, does not apply enough detail. My idea is to help them work as closely and better in applying my laws, not to oppose human rights. Thank you for your answers. It will be followed by what is being done at the MUP, with the hope that we will not have to follow any cases, because it is good for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2931	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has the People's MP Nedjo Jovanovic, and let the National Ambassador Goran Ciric be prepared as the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2932	Thank you. Dear Ministers, as our distinguished colleague, Djordje Milicevic, has already said, will unequivocally support the SPS parliamentary group in voting day and vote in favour of the law amending the Law on travel documents. I'm going to talk in a very affirmative way about certain parts of these changes, because I think they represent one qualitative shift compared to the current system solutions. First, what, Mr. Minister, should be noted when considering the text of the proposed amendments to the Law on travel documents, is imposed as a very qualitative solution that the travel document is now considered a public document, to receive legal treatment of public documents, which in any case involves a very good solution in one legal traffic. As for the so-called so-called. exit visas, I think that's where the big shift was made. I would draw attention to the citizens and informing citizens, which I suppose Minister Stefanovic also knows, that he is familiar with these facts, that in early December 2013, bilateral screening took place on which the state of Serbia identified problems through the MUP that could result in the restriction or denial of one of the fundamental freedoms and human rights, which is freedom of movement guaranteed by the Constitution, international documents, primarily by conventions and declarations. In order to avoid preventing our citizens from being free to move, the so-called "removing initiative" has been launched since this screening. exit visas. This is an example of good organisation of work in the MUP, especially during this period, and the same ministry now shows a very high level of understanding for the needs of our citizens and for the protection of their rights through the adoption of this law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents. The following qualitative solutions in this law, because I have never sought to convince legal solutions, but only to comment on them, are facts relating to the definition of certain deadlines and those deadlines that relate to the issue of passports, as well as deadlines that relate to what means the return of passports, especially when it comes to diplomatic passports, and especially one kind of new system solution that binds to biometrics, and that biometrics as one of the types of activity in the provisions of this law. Therefore, the SPS parliamentary group, Mr. Minister, strongly supports more than a good proposal that children under the age of 12 are not given prints and do not seek signature, while the image remains in the photograph, which is an understandable solution. However, in order to be informed properly and in order for citizens to recognise the essence of this whole discussion, it should be pointed out that the data previously taken, and the signature and print, were taken in accordance with the then applicable law, therefore completely legitimate and regular. This is why these data remain and will be kept in a special database, a centralised database, with respect to the protection provisions on personality data. What is not in the draft laws, and what citizens need to know, is that Serbia has established an obligation among the first countries in Europe to take fingerprints when issuing passports, i.e. in passport, according to EAK 1.11. We must immediately draw attention to that they do not have such a measure as a systematised and many European countries, many countries in Europe, even significantly more economically developed and legally formed, or more stable in their legal system and legal traffic, than it is in Serbia. I have to remind you of a fact that hasn't manifested here yet, it hasn't shown itself. By the time these legal changes were made, 15 million biometric documents were issued by the MUP of Serbia, five million passports, with no single counterfeit reported. No single objection has been made, which only points to a very good organisation of work in this area, which only points to the quality of treatment when we talk about personal data, travel documents, travel documents, procedures, etc. Therefore, in this part too, one particularly affirmative dimension of the analysis of these legal changes must be present today in this debate. But there's something that I need as a well-intentioned suggestion to draw attention to, which is a member of the 36th proposed amendments and additions, where it's said that the competent judicial authorities are obliged to, through the police administration, supply the requested data from Article 35. We have a little dilemma here that hopefully will not appear as a problem in practice, which is that with this very termology "they are obliged to deliver" we do not enter into the part called judicial independence, especially courts and prosecutors. You yourself know how sensitive the matter is, the sensitive problem. I would, if there were amendments, even if we were to bind ourselves to the amendment of the Committee, that, at the request of the MUP, through the police administrations, the judicial authorities would supply the requested data from Article 35. Furthermore, what I think is also a qualitative solution is a provision giving the possibility that for a minor or a commercially incompetent person a request for a travel document can be filed by one parent and without the written consent of another parent. I believe that a very good, qualitative solution is that it can also be done in other cases of legal and physical prevention of one of the parents from exercising parental law. I think that here you have fully guessed with this change, because you obviously recognized the problems in practice, and these problems in practice have become multiple, precisely because in courts we have had situations that one parent deliberately or misused certain systemic solutions in this law make it impossible for another parent, mainly because it is a mother, to take a child beyond the borders of the Serbian state. I think that very well this way prevents one of these kinds of abuses, and I hope that in practice, such problems will eventually disappear through the application of this provision, i.e. we will no longer face these problems. Also, I think that finally, by asking you to consider sublegal acts, the law defines norms, to standardize the part that will in a special way ensure the protection of personal data, i.e. personal data. Why? Because we're now entering a phase of electronic databases, of systematicization of all facts, we even have a situation in which this so-called. electronic data carrier and machine-readable area for automatic data-reading purposes. As soon as you have one substance like this, you automatically create a certain degree of risk that data, which are subject to the personal protection data, can be made available to those who are not or should not be available. In this direction, it is possible to bring even more qualitatively these measures, which are prescribed by the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents, into force. Finally, I only have to offer once again our good will to participate in the further drafting of these texts, or legislative solutions, which in any case enjoy support and I will repeat what our authorised representative said and myself personally, regardless of what was missed in this part of the record of the registered participants for discussion, we strongly support, and I and my parliamentary group, the MP group of the SPS, all proposed amendments to the Law on Travel Documents. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2933	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Here, on what basis are you calling Mr. Imamovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2934	I'm an authorised representative. Dear President, Mr Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak to this Law on Travel Documents from the aspect of the representatives of a national minority, or a representative of Bosniaks in this House. The proposed Law on travel documents, as explained, is tasked with harmonising the regulations of the Republic of Serbia with EU regulations. With this in mind, the Proposer is calling for European law and EU achievements which I am afraid are only making a declarative effort. The proposal further stated in its explanation that the proposed changes and additions were in line with European norms. But today, in real life in Serbia, things are far from European practices, European standards and achievements, especially from the aspect of minority peoples and the degree of achievement, i.e. the achievement of their individual and collective rights. In most cases the laws remain a dead letter on paper, and this bill is another step back. As far as this law is concerned, it continues its current practice of systematic and institutional ignoring the rights of national minorities, such as the right to use language and letters officially. I would like to remind you that this right is guaranteed by the Constitution, laws and other acts of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the Republic of Serbia has ratified certain international documents, thus taking over certain international obligations to regulate the position of minorities and their individual and collective rights. The Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages has ratified and obliges us to recognise the right of members of national minorities to use their native language and letter equally. This law continues with the practice by which one law gives a right to minorities, and it already ignores others or even suspends some right by some sublaw. When we talk about the equal use of the language and letters of national minorities, we are talking about one of the key identity issues and the use of that right in practice, i.e. The level of achievement best speaks about the attitude of the state, i.e. the ruling structures towards minorities. The proposer of this law, whether on purpose or not, did not ignore only international law, but also domestic laws under which the state is obliged to issue minority public documents in the mother tongue and letter. I would like to stress that the procedure preceding the issue of a public document should be conducted in the language and letter of the national minority. These obligations are, first of all, prescribed by the Constitution where the official use of language and letters is one of four guaranteed the rights of a national minority. This right stems from the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, and is regulated by the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. Let's not break the Constitution with new laws and break existing laws. This law is an attempt to claim the right to issue travel documents in the language and letter of national minorities only to enter names and last names. Only the opening, i.e. the launch of a procedure for issuing travel documents in the beginning suspends the right of national minorities to initiate and end the process of issuing, or obtaining travel documents in their own language. I'll explain, every request for travel documents is an administrative procedure. Under the laws of the State, administrative procedures at the request of members of national minorities are to lead in their native language and letter. The impression is that the state is knowingly conflicting the laws, so that one gives some right, and the other is already denying some right. I'd stop here, as far as language and letters are concerned. We'll talk about it a little bit more when the debate is in particular, because we've tabled several amendments to this bill, and now I'd like to pay attention to the definition of citizenship in travel documents. The law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia in Article 1 states that citizens, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. The travel documents Act itself treats that definition equally in Article 8. In practice, however, we have something completely different. The section that enrolls in travel documents, instead of a provision of citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, lists a specific citizenship of Serbian. In this context, the term ‘Serbian’ shall associate the term ‘nationality’, rather than belonging to a particular country, as attributed to the Law on Citizenship and the Law on travel documents. We have submitted several amendments to this law. These are the questions why the Bosniaks have delegated us here. Our desire is to act constructively in this high home, to solve these problems through the institutions of the system, as far as possible, and Parliament is certainly one of the strongest institutions of the system. The amendments of the Members of Parliament are one of the strongest instruments that we currently possess. I urge you to consider our amendments, as constructive proposals, and our desire to improve the laws we bring here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-10-0.u2935	I'm finishing the initial search. I thank you for your active participation in today's session of Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Minister of the Interior. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. on items 5 and 6 of the agenda, a united debate. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 106 Members of the Parliament are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 103 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Olena Papuga.
