ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 127 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 148 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request information or explanations in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3662	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin my question today by quoting Article 40. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says - the apartment is invulnerable. No one can enter an apartment or other room against the will of their holder without a court decision or search them. On January 16, 2009, late in the evening, a group of armed robbers unauthorizedly broke into the official premises of the SDA Sandzak central and illegally occupied them. On January 17th 2009, the group of robbers attempted on several occasions the murder of SDA President Sandzak, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and members of the leadership who tried to enter their official premises. You, armed to the teeth, the bandits first threw heavy objects from the balcony to the head, when they hit the president's escorts, so that later with more shots from more guns, they'd shoot President Carbonin in the direction of his murder and the murder of more than one person. The witness to this event was Deputy Chief of the New Market Police. I would like to point out that Dr. Ugljanin was the current minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the time and ask what was he or some other government doing after that? From that event to this day, more than five years have passed. Still no response to this terrorist act directed against Bosniak political leadership. What kind of message does the state send to Bosniaks when it makes their legitimate political representatives into clay pigeons that every bandit can shoot and go unpunished and often get rewarded for it? When will we get an answer who are these people who have entered the official premises of the SDA Sandzak, who and how many have shot Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin and the party's leadership and, most importantly, on whose orders did they do so? I'm asking what's supposed to happen. Should a man be killed so that the state authorities can unite the investigation in these two cases? I warn of the fact that this is by who knows what attempt to answer this question is, first try by Dr. Suleiman Ugljanin in the government, at the government's meetings to come to this answer, and then attempt by the MPs to eventually try to get this answer, but to this day it was unsuccessful. There's still no answer. The defendants and convicted are still missing, and we know that some of them are even rewarded for it. This is a very dangerous and harmful message, especially at a time when the rule of law in Serbia is marked by that bright red by the EU. So I want to go back to this Constitution and the article I quoted at the beginning. Not only is this a violation of the law of inviolability of the apartment and other rooms, this is where the bulkhead was committed. The premises of the Central SDA of Sandzak were completely demoted and eventually attempted murder by the current government minister, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, president of a parliamentary minority party, and the state kept silent for five years. I wonder if it would have been the same if it had been another minister? So I ask the minister of justice and the minister of police -- who were these people who violently entered the official premises of SDA Sandzak on 16 and 17 January 2009, who shot at Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and the party's leadership, and who is the head of these people? I think it's about time these questions were answered. We haven't had a single part of the answer to these questions in five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3663	The word is Mr. Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3664	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I have a few questions for today's session. First of all, Mr. Srdjan Verbic's question on behalf of Serbia's educational workers. In fact, Mr Verbic announced very seriously and very commendablely that one of his steps in education reform will certainly be to withdraw textbooks with material errors from optics. Since everyone who works in class, who daily serves these very textbooks, knows what a problem it is in living teaching and education, they are eager to see what steps they have taken so far. Since we have only two months from today until the start of the school year, we are interested in what the ministry has done so far, how it plans to carry out such a serious step and can the correct textbooks be expected from September 1st. I would like to ask Mrs Jovanka Tabakovic, governor of the NBS. This is a request from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, given that the NBS website adopted amendments and additions to the Consumers of Financial Services Act, which are planned in some due time. All we're interested in is whether there's a possibility that a member of the 34th amendment might be changed as well? Mrs Tabakovic, who is indeed a proven fighter for the interests of Serbian citizens, will understand what I'm talking about. Therefore, Article 34 should also be amended so that citizens can make it easier, better and more useful in themselves to solve their credit problems that they have taken at the same time. We all know what the responsibility of Serbian citizens is and how difficult it is to serve loans at such a difficult economic moment. I also refer the third question to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This is just a well-intentioned suggestion and an answer whether it is possible to amend the Law on the financial support of families with children in Article 13. In fact, we will send a proposal as an NS parliamentary group, a proposal to amend that law, but we expect both of these ministries to respond very quickly and show willingness to only solve the problem more operationally in the law regarding helping families with children. We propose that Article 13 be amended in such a way as to read: “The calculation and payment of the remuneration of beneficiaries of the rights referred to in Article 10(1) of this Act shall be carried out by the administration of the unit of local self-government and the funds provided in the budget of the Republic. The employer is obliged to provide evidence to the local self-government unit of the basic salary level for the 12 months preceding the month of the departure within eight days of the start of maternity leave. It is the unit of local self-government that carries out the transfer of funds to one of the monthly employees of the position of 1 of this Member from the funds secured in the budget of the Republic on the basis of a decision on the recognition of the right to compensation granted within 15 days of the date of the evidence of the position of 2 of this member by the employer. The minister in charge of finance and the minister in charge of social affairs agree on the way and procedure of transfer of funds for the payment of salaries to employees during maternity leave, the absence from work for the care of the child and the absence from work for special care of the child. Therefore, nothing in the budget costs would change, but the administrative path would be significantly shortened and the whole procedure would be operationalised so that, with families with children, with fewer administrative obstacles, they would come to the realization of their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3665	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3666	Dear President, I would have a question for ministerial traffic, also for the finance minister, and for travel infrastructure in Vojvodina. Under the Law on Public Property, the pathways of the second and third order are passed on to the AP Vojvodina, only one fact has been ignored, that funding for such expenditure is not foreseen by current legislation. I come from the local government of Sremska Mitrovica. Last year I asked a question about the regional road R-103, which passes through the town of Lacarak, will it ever enter the government programme, i.e. "The Road of Serbia", to end the road route? After these floods, the situation on this road is even more critical, but now we have come to the situation that the Republic is not in charge of roads in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, although most of the budget "The Road of Serbia" is filled with exactly the routes passing through the AP Vojvodina. I would also refer the question to the finance minister, and it concerns the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which has been announced several times, because I don't think it's possible to enforce the gross jurisdiction unless a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina is passed. The infrastructure in the province's territory is in catastrophic condition. We had big promises about the tunnel through Fruska Gora and the Banat highway, etc., but I think it's far from being realized, since there's absolutely no means in sight to build such a thing. Together with all governments in the Republic of Serbia, firstly, they have the same relationship with Vojvodina, and secondly, they want to build as grander and bigger project as possible, but only in Belgrade. We had a bridge over Ade. Now we will also have "Belgrade on Water". These are all wonderful projects that cost hundreds of millions of dollars and billions. Those in power in Belgrade must understand that there are people living both outside Belgrade and who must travel somewhere, and not when their wheels go off, that their tooth fillings fall out of various impact holes. It is a shame what the travel network is in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and the rest of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3667	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljiljana Kosoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3668	I refer the question to the Ministry of Interior, the Emergency Sector, and the question is – in whose jurisdiction is the purchase of anti-urban missiles and who is responsible for inadequate preparation for the city's defence season. The city's defence season starts on April 15th and lasts until October 15th, and in March, there are two key problems – the problem of hiring shooters and the problem of getting anti-urban missiles. The Republic hydrometeorological institute was still in March as one of the link points out that the city's defence system is such that no suspicious cloud or phenomenon can pass the radar, but definitely a lack of rockets can tie their hands. According to estimates, about 25,000 missiles are enough for the city's protection season, worth about sevenm euros, and at the beginning of the season there was only one-third of the projectile, about eight thousand. The figure alone, which would meet the sevenm-euro needs of Serbia as a whole, is about the damage that was done to only one municipality last year. At the end of December 2013, a permanent conference of cities and municipalities was recommended by local self-government to allocate more funds in the budget for the purchase of anti-urban missiles. There are now misunderstandings and also issues at all levels – whether it is the responsibility of the Emergency Sector of the MUP of the Republic of Serbia to provide the required missiles or to exclude the competence of local self-government. If it is the jurisdiction of local self-government, the stumbling block is the legal procedure for public procurement, first of all, that some municipalities at the beginning or during the season bought a small amount of rockets, and then the problem is that the municipality can have twice the same purchase. If it were to wait for a regular legal procedure, it would take one to two months. The third uncertainty, local self-governments do not have enough money for anti-urban protection, so budgets predict, based on recommendations, minimum amounts, symbolic or, as with my municipality Koseric, the 2014 budget was adopted only in June and the purchase of rockets when it started immediately, should at least be respected and reached by August of the month, and the damages from floods, slides and city clouds are invaluable. So I ask the question - in whose jurisdiction is the procurement of anti-building missiles, and who is responsible for inadequate preparation for the city's defence season? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3669	The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3670	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a question on behalf of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – NDS – ZZS – ZS, as regards the amendment and addition of the Labour Act. Perhaps the answer to this question could also be given here by the present minister – when will the law on amendments to the Labour Act reach the assembly procedure? Today we hear announcements that he's about to speak to the unions on July 12th for Petrovday. Will this law, I ask the Prime Minister and Prime Minister, arrive at the Assembly when the workers, what is left of them, are on vacation? I wouldn't say they're at sea because there's not many of them who can afford the sea. As things go, the law will be there somewhere in late July, early August. However, in the announcements we have received so far from the Prime Minister, there has been a speech that it will be sooner. Thus, the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, said on June 20th that the law in the assembly procedure would be in place within seven days, therefore, in June. Even this time, the prime minister's promise has not been fulfilled. That's the 27th of June that passed. On that occasion, Prime Minister Vukic said that he would spend the next month... I only remind the ruling majority of the promise made by their prime minister. On that occasion, he promised that in the next month, when he promised it, the Privatisation Act, the Banking Act, as well as the Law on Planning and Construction, would be completed. So neither the Labour Act nor these laws are yet in the congregation procedure. I will remind you of what is the government's competent minister, the Socialist by definition, the president of the Socialist Movement, and this is important, as it is the Labour Act, he said on 30 May that the new law will be in front of lawmakers by the end of June. So he deceived not only the MPs, but also the citizens of Serbia, but also the workers. On that occasion, he said that it is not true that this law that is being prepared is anti-work and that it will also protect the interests of employers and workers. We haven't had a chance to see what that law looks like, so we can't be sure of those promises from Minister Vulin. Otherwise, Minister Vulin said three days ago, after all this, that he would most like him to write this law over and over again. He says - I'd take an empty paper and write a law on work. Meanwhile, he remembered not to change the law, but to write a new law. What do the representatives of the biggest party in power say? Mr. Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary club, said the other day that there was no need to have a public debate on the Labour Act, as the law has been discussed for two years. There's talk of something, but no one's seen that law. That's why I'm asking – is there going to be a public debate at all? Will the workers be able to see that law? I'm talking about workers, not their leaders, because Mr. Vukic promised us in his exposé. He said in his exposé, quoting: "We will allow businesses, civil society and other interested parties to participate in all stages of legal acts from the concept of law to the proposal, including the preparation of sublaws. “ Here he particularly apostrophe of the Labour Law. So this promise from the exposé isn't fulfilled. It may be fulfilled, but it will be contrary to what Mr. Babic says. I'm asking if there's going to be a public debate on the Labour Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3671	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3672	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on 10 June of this year, I asked the parliamentary question of the Minister of Energy, the management of the EPS, as well as the Ministry of Economy. The issue related to company status "24. September" in restructuring, companies with limited responsibilities from Užica. Meanwhile, since the question has not been answered, the same company's problems, both statusally, functionally, organisationally, and particularly financially, have become multiple. It is that after a 10-year restructuring process, the failed sales of this company, employees, who are around 125, have not yet received profits. The company has no jobs, nor is it possible to provide jobs that would generate income for the remuneration of employees. What is particularly burdensome for this company is the fact that after the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is more than respected, businesses such as "24. In September, they may engage in areas that have been threatened by floods, and may also engage, regardless of the existence of provisions of the Public Procurement Act. The company still didn't get a single job. The demands of the company's employees, which have not changed today, are the same. First and foremost, the integration process "24. September" in the EPS system as quickly as possible or at least, since it has not yet started, employees of this security company in another way, and this means working in the EPS. Why? Because in the business unit, which is otherwise the exposition of EPS DOO companies from the King, individuals are working under the contract for temporary and occasional transactions. They're over 80. It is absurd that so many people work on temporary and occasional jobs, and that 125 currently unemployed workers of the company "24. September" does not have the opportunity to achieve their working-legal status and employment. The second requirement is what is already pointed out, which is to provide business for this company, in order to obtain revenue, in order to allow the registered activity to be carried out in the service of power plants. Since the answer has not arrived, the same question must be asked again, and employees are looking for an urgent solution to the same question. The second question is I ask the Minister of Education, Mr Verbic, and the question is about the establishment of the university, we spoke earlier to the integrated University of Uzic, given that the university process in Uzic has been going on for several years. In particular, I would like to remind you that the previous local government in Užica strongly supported the concept, and now it is even more strongly supported by the current local government in the town of Užica. What is particularly important to point out, the procedure for establishing an integrated university has long moved away. Finally, the National Council for Higher Education also accepted that a study of justification or feasibility of the establishment of an integrated university is accepted and that the government's decision should be put on the agenda of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I really expect on behalf of all citizens, not only the town of Užica, citizens of the Zlatibor district, citizens of all of Western Serbia, to whom this higher education institution is and how it is necessary to revitalise, if nothing else, then quality life on the territory of this part of Serbia. Then it's something that implies an imperative, something that really deserves special attention, because the return of a state-level higher education institution to Užice means the return of what Užice once had and lost, which is three universities within the Belgrade University. Now is the opportunity for the university to finally establish itself and to have higher education affirmed in that territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3673	Nevenka Milosevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3674	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, respected finance ministers, respected fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have an exceptional responsibility, but also an obligation, to inform all of you in the end and ask questions to government representatives, relevant ministries regarding the current situation in the production of raspberries and the purchase of raspberries. I am a representative of the Municipality of Ivanjica, the municipality which is the largest region in the production of raspberries. The problem I'm talking about is also about neighbouring municipalities, such as the municipality of Arilla, Baja's garden, Požega, Luciani. Before I ask a question, I'll make a brief introduction. This year, our agricultural producers, the raspberries, processed their raspberries, so I'd say, as never before, they've invested a lot. I must say that after the collapse of the Ivanjica economy, not only in Ivanjica, but throughout Serbia, right now 80-90% of people, the inhabitants of our municipality live off the raspberries. In raspberries today are intellectuals, lawyers, economists, doctors and many others. It's one big factory under the clear sky, and that sky had no mercy. Nature had no mercy, last year's drought, and this year's snow when its weather isn't, storm, city, flood. They thought the raspberries were the end of the problem. However, now that they are largely harvesting raspberries, when they have to collect their work, the biggest problem arises. It's not nature. It's a human factor. It happens that we are in part to influence the price of raspberries in our municipality and neighboring municipalities have a monopoly and a lobby of refrigerators. We all know that according to the Constitution, the Republic of Serbia has a single market, where there should be uniform rules. We must not be forgotten. Today in Ivanjica, the purchase price of raspberries is 150 dinars, and the same company, the same buyer in other places, buys the same raspberries, no more quality and better, for 230, 250 dinars. It's a huge dissatisfaction with the raspberries. They're bitter because they can't solve this problem on their own. So they ask the state for help, from the ministry, and above all, they have the highest hope and trust in the prime minister of government, because they know it's he who is determined to fight crime, corruption and monopoly of every kind. I will therefore ask a parliamentary question to the representatives of the government, to the resolution ministries, to the Ministry of Agriculture, to trade, but I think there are also jobs for the Ministry of Justice. Our question and application is – can you now, because the issue is very urgent and current, to help us to make the price of raspberries in these municipalities as unique as in other Serbian cities? Local self-governments from these places are ready and open to co-operation. We're looking for a meeting, if possible as soon as possible, to discuss this problem and finally solve it. That's the first question I think is urgent, but since my time is coming to an end, the rest of the questions will be delayed at the moment. I would look back, and I would say that we support the courage of the Republic of Serbia that the law on the work that follows us and which is most talked about...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3675	Thank you, colleague. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3676	Madam President, dear ministers, dear colleagues, I have a few questions. First question I ask the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Local Self-Government, and it concerns events in the Municipality of Dimitrovgrad. We received a letter from the President of the Municipality of Dimitrovgrad in which a man, as far as I can see, appealed to all parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament to ask the question of how and how to stop the bad happenings, very bad events that are happening in Dimitrovgrad. On the basis of this memo and talks with the President of the Municipality of Mr. Ivanov, I realized that certain SNS people are going and trying at night to kidnap committees in Dimitrovgrad to change the assembly majority. I would like to know what the MUP and others will do about such unwanted events, given what the president of the municipality says, that people live in fear in the municipality and are asking to expose events, especially on the night of June 10th of this year in which our colleagues from the Serbian Parliament are allegedly involved, and these are counterparts Vladica Dimitrov from SNS and counterpart Dragan Todorovic from the Socialist Movement. I think it would be good for the government to answer whether this is true and if it is, what will take these things to do, because Dimitrovgrad is a border municipality in which the majority is a Bulgarian national minority. I wish things like this hadn't been confirmed in any way. The second issue also concerns the interior minister, as well as the minister of the economy, and it is related to the events that we witnessed yesterday in Žitište when they were forced into the Agroziva plant, with the help of a large number of police or gendarmes, I'm not sure, the bankruptcy manager and some others, although they had an agreement with workers who were strikeout not to do so. My question -- who ordered a huge number of officers to come in there in full equipment to fight with the workers in Zitist? Why was that necessary? Why was it necessary to use force to get into a factory where workers haven't been getting their salaries for months, so we, citizens who could see that video, because it wasn't in the regime media, to hear terrible messages from the hungry workers themselves, the type, we voted for you, and this is what you do to us. I don't think that's correct and that things like that shouldn't be done at all. I wonder why it was even done. The last question was addressed to the Minister of Energy. For the second time, I ask – when will Minister Mihajlovic's promise given in the pre-election campaign be fulfilled to return the EPS's "Costalic Service" workers to the EPS? It's been repeated several times, but it's never been fulfilled. On the long list of your unfulfilled promises it's only one item, though very important to the citizens of Kostolac. Finally, the issue for the economy minister and the Prime Minister – when other cities in Serbia, other than billboards that say "We are celebrating Belgrade" and the model that was made, will be able to get their models, so that citizens can go around them organisedly, not like this in Nis, Leskovac, Novi Sad, Vranja and elsewhere, it says "We are celebrating Belgrade on water", and those people do not have any infrastructure capital facility that you are able to create. At least make them a model so they can watch it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3677	Thank you. You will receive a written reply within 15 days. I'm convinced. Since there is no more than a president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups declared by the word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Vladimir Pavicevic, Meho Omerovic, Riza Halimi, Shaip Kamberi, Olena Papuga, Dr Diana Vukomanovic and Stefana Miladanovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda as soon as possible, set out in the request of 206 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of the motionary Lazar Krstic, Minister of Finance, I have called for the sittings to be attended by Nikola Ćorsovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Marjan Blesic, Adviser at the Ministry of Finance, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt Management, Irina Stevanović Gavrović, Assistant Minister of Finance, Mr Dejan Dabetic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance and Dragan Dejanovic, adviser to the Public Debt Management. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call of 5. Extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in 2014, which was convened at the request of 206 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to maintain 5. The extraordinary session in 2014, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, in five. Extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in 2014, the next Dn e n ir d 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; 2. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Treaty on the promotion of judicial bodies between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank; 3. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Armenia, on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official special passports; 5. Proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on co-operation in the field of defence; 6. Proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation in the field of defence; 7. Proposal for a bill to confirm an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on military co-operation; 8. Proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on co-operation in the area of defence; 9. Proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the area of defence; 10. Proposal for a bill to confirm the memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations, which provides resources to the transitional forces of the United Nations in Lebanon; 11. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission for the control and enforcement of criminal sanctions, submitted by the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government of the National Assembly; 12. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovec; 13. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions; 14. Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision appointing the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to international parliamentary institutions. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic, based on Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 2nd. 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to carry out - a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty of the Treaty on the Treaty on the Functioning of the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Armenia, on the avoidance of the Treaty of the Treaty on the Treaty of the Treaty of the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Armenia, on the avoidance of visas for holders of diplomatic and official special passports, on the basis of the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, on the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, on the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic, Does MP Aleksandar Jugovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote 46, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda law, under points 1, 2 and 3 and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of Members of Parliament under Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Contracts on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Treaty on the Promotion of Objects of Judicial Authorities between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia, on the avoidance of Double Taxation against Income and Property Taxes. Does the representative of Proposer Lazar Krstic, the finance minister, want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3678	Thank you very much. We've had opportunities to discuss several different financial laws in the last ten months. I would say that most of the things the Ministry of Finance comes into parliament in this situation are not politically popular things and are not positive things. They are mainly talking about the overall financial situation that has been caused, the lack of adequate structures and mostly inadequate application before, rather than the lack of proper regulations. Amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration are different examples. It's a system law that defines tax procedures and tax administrations. As such, its changes are the first step in a more comprehensive reform of the tax system in general, i.e. in the fight against the gray economy as such. I think by its nature, the law that everyone who thinks well of public finances should support. So now I'm going to talk in detail about what the amendments to this law are. But not to be fooled by the fact that it's not a new law, these are the most comprehensive amendments to this law I believe in in the last ten years. So, the changes that we make to this law create assumptions about, on the one hand, starting a non-selective and consistent fight against the gray economy, tax evasion and what is a fundamental problem, and that is a low rate of collection, and on the other hand, we are creating a basic, or institutional legal framework for the functioning of the Tax Administration that will enable us to adequately address all the organisational challenges that have been created in the last ten years since it was established in this form. Among the changes we have, we have in particular two significant changes in terms of sanctioning and non-compliance with tax rules, in terms of the determination of penalties and the collection of tax claims and one significant change in order to increase the efficiency of tax control as such. We talk all the time about having a big gray economy, not dealing with it, and not fighting it as vigorously as we could. In part, if we diagnose the reasons for this – on the one hand, we have a large part of ourselves tied our feet and hands to regulations that did not allow us to do so, these are precisely the changes that apply to it, and on the other hand, we have the organisational structure of the Tax Administration which, in part, is, whether or not deliberately or out of ignorance, brought into that state and is partly due to some regulations, which we are also changing under this law. As the second major amendment passed by this law is a lot of small things that we very often have to listen to on television and read in the newspapers about that the Tax Administration is very rigid, that the process is very rigid and that there is no flexibility and of course there is no flexibility to be limited when it comes to public revenues, but that there is a lot of ambiguity, that in many places it is mentioned in the legal regulations which are penalties, how they are determined and how they function. So we here have a large number of changes in the process-technical character, precisely with the aim of removing ambiguity, uncertainty and what we have done through making these changes, and that was an all-inclusive inclusive process, seen as shortcomings in the existing tax administration system. Regarding this and the way we can measure the effectiveness of this law in a future period, in addition to, of course, the gray economy, which depends not only on the law, but rather on the implementation, is the fact that we are in the 161st place of 189 countries at the expense of tax administration. So, in terms of time and money needed by taxpayers, which is spent on it. So 161 of 189 countries. These changes, precisely on these competitive lists, will make our position better. As for the change in the area of sanctioning non-compliance with tax rules and improving the efficiency and control of the Tax Administration, which is one large area of change that we are introducing. As the first thing, we have a redefination of criminal policy. So, after a lot of analysis, we didn't do all these analyses, some of them were done in the NGO sector, and long before I came to the head of the finance ministry, problems were identified. The first one is to overlap the rules in this domain. In many places we have provisions, i.e. standards that define different levels of punishment, which puts into doubt different tax inspectors and other tax officials when they determine the level of these penalties, which then leads to appeal procedures, different decisions at a second-degree level and even non-consistent application of the rules. Others are relatively low sentences. So sometimes it was worth more to break the law, even to get caught than to obey the rules. It has often occurred that when a court case occurs, it results in a warning, not a sentence, and especially by not giving a sentence that would in the future make similar offences not repeated. The third thing is that, in a large number of penalties, sentences are inadequate in tax policy, or criminal tax policy. It makes the most sense to impose fines in terms of the percentage of outstanding tax claims, i.e. the unpaid tax that you had for the most serious offenses due to the offence. It wasn't often the case with us. Those who profited most from avoiding paying taxes often paid nominal penalties that in proportion to what they used to be miserable and only encouraged them to continue to behave in this way. With these changes, you will see that we have removed the overlapping of the rules. The whole criminal policy is now defined exclusively by the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. They're just unitedly defined. It removes the uncertainty and the possibility of unconsistent application of the rules. We've also changed the way you're being punished wherever possible. In accordance with what I said, they are defined relatively against the damage caused by the violation. Finally, we have increased the fines because we believe that this is necessary and only responsible in a situation where, taking into account the situation in public finances and the amount of costs that we have in relation to the amount of income we make and the necessity to take on the side of expenditure certainly unpopular things, we consider it a great obligation to maybe even try to achieve better results on the revenue side by applying laws that we would all have to respect. If the first thing is to redefine criminal policy in this domain, the second is to establish rules that encourage the provision of business liquidity by non-payment of taxes. Very often, economic operators with liquidity problems decided not to pay taxes and use that money to maintain their business. This basically means that we as a state, or all taxpayers credit those whose business is not going well. We have also taken some new solutions to make it clear to everyone and that there is no economic incentive for economic operators to go on credit by the state. The first of the three things we've changed here is that the interest on untimely tax payments will be 10 percentage points higher than the reference rate. It is currently 18.5%, and it should not be economically profitable to finance it by not paying the tax. The second change is the order of settlement of the tax debt, so what makes sense is that I didn't see until I entered a detailed analysis of this law is that the underlying debt is the last one, and that interest is paid first. Everything else is some ad hoc solutions and some reliefs that in the system law shouldn't have space. The third thing is to amend the provisions governing the rules under which the payment of the tax debt can be postponed or to grant its payment in the wars. So here we simply specify some data that would allow in this situation when we have problems with inequity in the economy and when the tax debt reprogramme is one of the legitimate mechanisms to sometimes overcome this indifference in the case where there is a healthy operating business. We simply wanted to be very precise about what some range of discretionary decisions the tax administration might have. The third sub-authority in this domain is the creation of a framework to increase the efficiency of control by the tax administration. If you're watching someone act in accordance with the law, that's when it's likely to be discovered if they break the law. Therefore, they are not the key levels of penalties, although they are significant, or significant, from the maximum penalties as I was saying, they are proportionate, it is important whether taxpayers think that we as a state are serious and that we have the methods, the way and the will to discover them and then sanction them. Before these changes and some other organisational changes that I will talk about, which are happening right in the tax administration, the likelihood in Serbia is not satisfactory. There was a discretionary decision on where you'd send it to an emergency, so-called. Emergency controls, and then that would be all over the political lines, either by where someone's vanity was threatened, we'll end it, but also by introducing electronic business into a large part of the tax administration, we'll free another 400 to 500 people who'll be able to deal with the inspectorial affairs. The change in the CAP, therefore in this law, is that we will now be able to count on the most obvious aspects of the grey economy, such as the failure to issue fiscal accounts now on other tax administration officials who are not necessarily tax inspectors and do not necessarily have to have a college to conclude that someone has not issued a fiscal account. These changes allow us to have enough people on the ground, so that all taxpayers who issue fiscal accounts can go around with enough frequency so that they can start thinking that we'll find out if they don't issue fiscal accounts. According to some calculations, it could be up to twice a month with the number of people we release by introducing an electronic business in what is called the tax administration's back office. Therefore, this measure is only in some way an introduction to what, if, of course, this law is, and these amendments and additions are adopted in Parliament, the tax administration will take over, and that is to inform, or remind each taxpayer individually that it is necessary to deliver its and all information relating to the collection of VAT via the GPRS system. We know who doesn't. We will not punish them immediately, first we will warn them and inform them about what new penalties are, but then we will go very rigorously with much more drastic penalties, because we simply cannot afford the luxury of some not respecting the law, while on the other hand I am talking about potentially reducing the number of employees, reducing profits and other things that are painful for everyone. The second principle that we have followed in the amendments to this law is process-technical changes. This is what life means to many, because it is the way tax is paid, and the tax administration should primarily be the service of citizens, because it is this counter that no economic operator, and no citizen of this country can bypass. On the one hand, we still have the informational modernisation of services to tax bonds. So, what's our goal? We are introducing on one hand the electronic submission of applications, already done with a combined charge that has started to work and has been working well since 1 March of this year. That's about 80% of the coverage in terms of income, the mass of income. By 1 October 2015, it will be done for all other types of tax revenues, thus creating a space to eliminate many discretionary ones, which is something I have had the opportunity to talk about in the last few weeks and with flat-rate bonds, i.e. those who pay the tax in a flat-rate manner, to eliminate the different discretionary factors that an individual tax inspector, or tax officer, can determine on the spot, or on the ground, because this in itself reduces the predictability of tax obligations which is bad for business. We are also introducing the possibility of delivering tax acts by electronic means, which has not been the case so far. Unless you got something black on white, on paper, it never happened. It just can't work like that and it shouldn't work like that in the 21st century. And some minor changes that define the rules of data exchange by electronic means, since we've now introduced and we're going to continue to introduce applications in this way. Finally something that I think will also help us with the predictability of the application of the rules, which are the alignment of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration with some other relevant laws, such as the Criminal Law and the Foreign Exchange Act. So that's about the changes and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. The essence of this is that this law is the beginning of a more aggressive fight on the one hand against the gray economy, and on the other hand, the continuation of business relief for all economic operators in Serbia in terms of the very administration of tax collection, as well as the application of uniform practice in the application of tax rules, which has often been a huge problem so far. It's about that law. As for the other two laws, I wouldn't be too long on them. The Loan Act for the improvement of judicial bodies facilities due to the change of the network of courts is about changing the facilities, namely the project itself, and it is about reducing the costs that will be needed, from 45m to 41m euros, in order to best meet the needs of the judicial system, due to the changes that occurred in the area. Finally, the third law relating to double taxation with Armenia is one of a set of laws of a similar nature that has been adopted systematically with all the countries that are willing to do so in order to facilitate business, i.e. eliminate the need for administration and additional costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3679	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3680	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will present an opinion of the SVM on the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. This is one system law that is called fundamentally changing or we have fundamental changes in it. As Mr. Minister said, tax discipline is one narrow throat in our economy next to the gray economy. As we know, our tax rate is very low, and we have to make it better somehow. So it's high time to introduce order and discipline into our tax system. With this law we will begin, that is, this will be the first step in the domain of the solution to this problem. The SVM parliamentary group will vote for this law. With this law, we comply with the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration with the Violation Act. As we have read, criminal policy itself has been redefined. With this law, we will remove any doubt as to what regulation should be applied in measuring the level of criminal punishment. The same sanctions for the same offence have been secured. Of course we have a lot of violations and in practice we have to sanction it somehow. Infringement policy, i.e. the range of prescribed penalties, is adjusted with the severity of violations and the level of tax bonds, with the size of the taxpayer. The maximum penalty will now be imposed on that tax payer who did not report it, has neither accounted nor paid the tax. So criminal provisions are very important and important to introduce order and discipline into our tax system, but by doing so we will increase, of course, the revenue side of the budget. I think it's just as important that we create a legal framework for further informational development of services to taxpayers and the very work of the tax administration. In this law it is precise when and how tax returns should be filed. As Mr. Minister said, these are some technical changes, changes in technical nature, but I think they're quite significant for taxpayers, to know how they should do it and within what time. Here the dynamics of tax returns are prescribed, and only in electronic form. It's also important for the tax administration system, because, as you know, 10 or maybe a little more years ago, we shut down a system that our tax system kept under control, and that was so-called. The SDK system that really worked and had good results. Unfortunately, we broke it off and we came to the conclusion that after ten, fifteen years, we have to reintroduce order and discipline into our tax system, as it was before. It is stated here in this law and it is specified that the tax authority also has an obligation to submit the tax code to the taxpayer, because in practice we have had a lot of frequent remarks and a lot of frequent problems in the delivery of this act, when it was delivered, as received, and in this law it is precisely written. It is good that the tax administration, by the 5th of the month, for the previous month, puts the taxpayer's website to the knowledge that he received or was sent to him by a tax act. As Mr. Minister has said, one of the important changes in this law is how tax debt is felt. As we've heard, it's been a practice so far that the main debt was first settled, and then interest, and so on, and now this has been completely changed. First they charge the expenses, then after interest and tax debt or basics at the end. This is because the calculation of interest is not done in a comfortable way, but in a simple way, a simple interest account of the table. So, the taxpayers won't pay interest at all, as it has been. Unfortunately, interest has been added to the main debt so far and interest has been recalculated on this interest. I'm calculating interest will be done after the last day of the month. I hope the taxpayers will pay their taxes regularly, as it is written here, at the tax administration's cash register, but I can also pay with a transfer of orders. I think it's one positive thing. In this law we read that taxpayers will have the opportunity to postpone paying taxes, which means that taxes can be paid with delayed payments and can be paid in wars. The biggest war is up to 24 months, so it's written in law. But it's also indicated here when paying for a delay or in wars that kind of funds should be given to security. The tax administration will decide which funds it will accept, but has an obligation to notify the taxpayer of which funds it has decided, that the taxpayer would have time to obtain those funds before signing a contract or a payment agreement or payment agreement in wars. It is also proposed to increase the maximum amount of debt to which payment can be postponed without security funds. It is very important in practice, since I was president of the municipality, I know that there have been a lot of problems in the work and association of tax administrations with other state authorities, such as local self-government or local self-government in those bodies that keep certain records. He could never give that information, what was asked for. So this whole process of working between the two state authorities was not in line. Here in this law it is indicated, we could say, by official duty, that reports or the work of the state authorities themselves should be agreed upon. It is indicated here that those bodies that keep records at the place of residence, or the residence of a natural person, or bodies that keep records of the birth or death of a natural person, report changes after five days to the tax administration. It is also indicated that the authorities that manage certain registers of persons performing certain activities must also submit their reports or cannot at all delete those businessmen from this register, as the Agency for Economic Registers cannot delete a business person from the register before tax control by the tax administration has been carried out. It is also important that this law provides that local self-governments, five days after the calendar year, have to deliver to the tax administration in electronic form, and this is also important, in electronic form, those changes that have taken place in relation to the property tax. So they're supposed to give up names and last names, unique birth numbers of those persons who've had changes and what the charge is. As we have heard and seen, by passing this law, we will come to a reduction in administrative costs and an increase in field controls. Here Mr. Minister said that one of the problems of tax administrations is that if we look at the structure of tax administration workers, they have more workers doing administrative work, and unfortunately they have fewer workers dealing with tax controls. If this database is going to work, this computer database will work then the workers can requalified, they're going to. administrative workers in tax controllers. Here the question arises whether they will be well-trained or trained to do this job, but it will be the tax administration itself to do this job. The important thing is that this law will provide a legal basis for these changes. As indicated by this law, we will improve the efficiency of control and collection itself. Here I see again a significant role in the development of computer equipment or computer systems or databases of the entire tax system. With this base, if it's handled well, then it'll be possible to automatically monitor tax collection, as to whether or not a tax return has been filed at all, whether it's paid in a timely manner. So, this database should be tax administrations doing well, because I'm system charging will be at the weigh on them. If we look at all these positive things that this law makes, based on these positive changes, the SVM will vote for this law. We think it's high time to introduce order and discipline into our country's tax system. This is a significant one, and I would say step one, a significant step towards passing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3681	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3682	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you said earlier in your presentation, Mr. Minister, you said that anyone who thinks well of public finances should support this law. We also think well of public finances, but we will be critical of this proposal for a number of reasons. When we say we're thinking well of public finances, I think we should take instead of the revenue side to look at the spending side and that's what we in LSV have been insisting on for years. We always say it's not a gray economy problem, it's a problem of some other color economy, I don't want to name them now. But a billion euros in the loss of public enterprises, I almost think it's a far bigger problem than what we call a gray economy. The grey economy does not exist because people like to be outside the tax system but because they cannot withstand the burdens that the state imposes on them, or taxes, contributes to other parafiscal burdens, if you want to do any work in Serbia, you can easily pay for them both in this matter and earn. I would not quote all the public enterprises that are in huge losses, but I think that if we mention only "The Railways", "Srbigas", JAT and other failed political projects, where either subsidies are divided or hundreds of millions of euros are invested, are something we should focus on instead of the burden being brought back by the poorest citizens, or those 100,000 entrepreneurs and 200,000 legal entities that have only a few employees. Today on a private sector employee, you have one public sector employee and two pensioners. I don't think there's any state that can bring it out and there's not a single system of public finances that can handle that kind of relationship. I have spoken before, and I will repeat, it is important that citizens in Serbia understand the difference between harrass and tax. I think there's still a tax on us as a hack, and there's a fundamental difference, and that's that if you don't pay, someone will come and punish you. You pay only because you are required by the state by force and coercion. Tax is completely different. In the West when you say you're a taxpayer, you pay some services, some infrastructure, etc., and for the money you pay, you want to know where they're spent and what you get for those funds. I don't think there is a difference with us, and one of the reasons why citizens don't see why they should pay certain taxes is because the system of public finances is extremely centralised. In the past there was a municipal tax administration, i.e. the municipal administration of income. All taxes were collected first at the municipality level, then the expenditures of the province, the Republic and the federal authorities were paid, and the system worked quite well by the end of the 1980s. We think we might be able to look up to some solutions from earlier times. In this way the municipalities, today local self-government were able to be motivated, to collect as many taxes as possible because all surpluses remained at the level of municipalities so that citizens knew exactly what these funds were going for and from these funds a complete infrastructure was built on the level of municipalities, at least that was the case in Vojvodina. You said that liquidity not paying tax revenues is how some legal persons are financed, but I think it's the state that's using that method. Let's just look at the total liabilities of public enterprises to the private sector and you'll see how in fact the state is used by that method not to pay the liabilities, or liquidity. In Serbia, although you have not charged, let's say, the invoice must be paid by VAT, although you may not have a dinar of the income achieved, you have to pay the profit tax. You have a system to make the more money, the less tax rate. I agree that the revenue side is something that's a problem, but I don't think we should just focus on small businesses and not just them to bear all that burden. Let's look at how, say, multinational companies show profits in the Republic of Serbia. As the financial sector shows profits in the Republic of Serbia, then we will probably realize that the gro, and get, goes to the British Virgin Islands and to various walks, locations through transfer prices or through borrowed funds and non-existent services, and that a very small part of these funds remains to be subject to taxation by our tax administration and these large systems, and I don't think in most cases our tax administration should even touch. When on the other hand, they come to some small businessman, they'll always tell him -- you know how, we have to write something, because they told us so, because we have a quota to pay. I think it's important to mention, also the general environment in which our economies work. Public spending is so much that we now have a deficit of 7% of GDP, but what I think is a much bigger problem is that we don't have any economic growth. We had a first recession, now we have a stagnation, and if it were different, we wouldn't have an industrial production that's 50% industrial production from 1989. That economic growth we had during 2005/06 was based solely on borrowing and credit expansion and this is no crisis, this is our reality. I don't think the new charges proposed by this law will contribute to anything other than additional spending killings and forcing a large number of companies to go gray and black areas of business. They'll have exactly the opposite effect of the desired. Further centralization of the tax system is not something we welcome. Here are some measures that remind us of the former SDK. That now banks should send to the IRS all payment orders and payment codes...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3683	I ask the MPs not to receive any services. They're just doing the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3684	... Also, the solution is that you can't get a PIB, if the company in which you're also in any percentage of the owner, and it didn't pay taxes, you can't get a PIB to the new company, which is also a very strange solution because it's like having five shares of a company on the stock market, say "Energoproject" or any other larger corporation, and now because, although you have a minority stake, a far minority share, you have to answer solidly for their obligations, or you can't exercise your right to work and earn. I understand that solution if you're the majority owner of that new company then yes, but if you're minority, I really don't see how that solution will contribute to anything. The third thing, the way tax solutions are handed out, because if you didn't receive a tax solution, someone handing it over to your family member, it's considered completely valid and I don't think it's in accordance with other laws. We'll talk about it when we come to the discussion in detail. It wouldn't be good for the IRS to be a state of state. I think there should be personnel training and that technically, materially, in many other ways people pay first, equipment etc. In order to carry out what is expected of them, and to give has jurisdiction without this first, I think it will lead to very negative effects and I fear that it will not lead to fiscal consolidation. We think that structural reform of public finances should be implemented, and we insisted last year that the Tax Administration be decentralised, or that Vojvodina should get its Tax Administration, that municipalities collect revenues, and then forward them to more levels of government. I think that such solutions exist in other countries and are not a problem. I understand the fear, perhaps from your perspective, given the high level of debt our country has, so what's strictly interested in foreign creditors, how we're going to repay the loans we took, they're not interested in anything else and I understand that you have to sort of respond to these challenges. The LSV won't vote for this bill, for the reasons I've stated. Again, the burden of this crisis should be borne by the richest, and I think we can raise the mine rent, not that nobody can even ask the Russian side to pay more. I think we can tax on short property over companies. I think we can look at the British Virgin Islands, Lugano, Cyprus and some similar destinations, in terms of where the funds that have been carried out out of our country for years could be found. I think the IRS could cross-reference property and income and tax what cannot be proven as legally acquired property. Once again, the rich are the ones who should bear the burden of this crisis, not the extra burden of the little private sector that still works, because I'm sure people have been able to cope in much worse times, will be able to again and no effect of such measures will bring positive results, except that it will increase the size of the grey economy. The LSV has proposed several amendments and we hope you will consider them, but in this issue in which this law is now, we will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3685	The word is Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3686	Dear Ministers, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us an amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and you yourself have said that this is a system law. What I would personally, as well as the MP group of the NS that I belong to, like to see, when we talk about system law, about tax collection, it would be good to have the bankruptcy law and the law on planning and building, i.e. legalisation, right behind it in this assembly debate. Why are we talking about this? You were talking earlier about the collection, but I would have warned you, dear ministers, that according to some data we have about a million illegal objects and then the question is how local tax administrations will be able to charge from such property owners, any tax without talking about hundreds of hectares and thousands of hectares of self-handling land, which are located in some kind of agricultural cooperatives that are bankrupt. Those bankruptcys go on forever. If the bankruptcy law doesn't change here urgently, we'll talk about improved tax collection. What I would still ask you, Mr. Minister, when I saw the amendments to the tax procedure and the tax administration, I sincerely hoped that we would see in these changes the VAT on humanitarian aid, and it concerns domestic legal persons and natural persons, is abolishing. We've seen that it's been abolished for foreigners, and I don't see why it hasn't been lifted for domestic physical and legal faces so far, because we're witnessing all of these flood accidents and storm winds, and as meteorologists announce, it's still going to happen this summer. It would be good if as soon as possible and it were found here in front of us, MPs. As far as the law itself is concerned, my colleagues who spoke before me, of course always like to talk about the split side. First of all, I'd like to talk about the revenue side. What's good is that the costs of the first-degree procedure have been dropped, because it's now gone to the courts, so the tax administration will no longer deal with it and therefore the costs are lower. What I would particularly like to mention is in Article 3, I am asking you for a little attention, is one practice that appears in Serbia over the last year, which has given certain results, is that on the website of the tax administration, lists of the biggest debtors, both legal and physical persons, are being published. This process of the Republic tax administration also led local tax administrations, which began to publish the lists of the largest debtors on their websites, and you, in Article 3 paragraph 7, determined that the tax administration would quarterlyly publish on its website the name, i.e. the name of the FIB, the amount of the tax debt, the tax debtor, and that the taxpayers with a tax debt of 20 million dinars and more, and entrepreneurs with a tax debt of five million dinars and more, which is not injured. I agree that there should be an obligation of official secrecy, honourable ministers, but I would remind you that we have more than 60 smaller municipalities in Serbia that do not have MPs in this parliament, which do not have a single large so-called area on their territory. ‘legal person’. Now if they don't have a single large legal face, do you know how long it takes to go through a commitment to build up a 20m debt in one of the smaller municipalities in Serbia? As a result, with my colleagues, I extended the amendment that this amount for legal persons in Article 3 will be reduced from 20 to five million dinars, as the lower limit, and for entrepreneurs from five million to 500 000 dinars, because we think that this way will be more justly possible to warn them, and to say, the irregular ones paid, especially in smaller areas, where people simply know each other and where the things are public disclosure of such data, gave the best results and where it feels in charge of the local tax administration. I have to remind you, when I talk about the local tax administration, that some of these over five years have passed since, for example, the tax on property was returned to local self-government, which, through their local tax administrations, collects this tax which is also the basic income of municipal budgets. What my predecessors also mentioned, so not to waste time on it, is that the property tax could be charged more in local units, of course you have better records of the facilities themselves, there is primarily a need for co-operation with a local disaster which, unfortunately, is often lagging behind. What I would like to commend on the proposal for this law, the Honorable Minister, is in Article 9 of Article 26(2), which is with the allocation of the PIB. We have so far had one real abuse, that the people who own the firm in debt, bring it, say, to the beggar stick and then shut it down or put it in stand-off status, open a new firm, and then, of course, work with the new firm, re-negotiate, and that's how it's always spinning. People, especially in the smaller environments, see, but they couldn't get in the way. For this reason, I especially note as a good way to make a simple face, whether it is a natural person or a legal person, if they make certain debts, until it is settled, it cannot open new companies, or it cannot get a new PIB, and I especially stress that it is necessary and commendable. And also, what's good, and that's also what my colleagues said, that's when we deliver the solution, and now we've also had certain abuses to avoid people getting a tax solution, so that's where they come in different ways. It is now quite clear, colleagues have already said – if you cannot hand it over, put it on the website until the fifth of the month and it will be considered that the solution is served. What is very important, and I would particularly like to point out, is that Article 21, you have also spoken, perhaps you have mentioned it, and that is in Article 21 of the amendment, and in the old law in Article 70(1), the word "income" is replaced by the word "indebted" and the attitude "indebted" is changed and said, that is, to translate to citizens who watch this TV broadcast, if you have a forced charge, of course, first of all, it has been charged in the old law of principals. It is clear to me and most of the MPs here that by the Constitutional Court's decision, the so-called "confort method" or the calculation of interest on interest, declared unconstitutional, but I don't see why this is a problem, Mr. Minister, and I would like you to explain it to me, to remain an old solution, and only to be thrown out, and first to collect the principal. Look, we are MPs here, we represent the citizens of Serbia, we need to return to the municipalities from which we come. If I am now a taxpayer in my municipality who owes 100,000 dinars and I go to the local tax administration and I want to settle my tax debt, imagine now I go there, and they tell me – first, Mr. Jovanovic, you have to pay a forced settlement, or a forced payment, and that costs you 10 thousand dinars, then interest, Mr. 12 thousand dinars, and then of that money that you have brought, you will not be left with 75 thousand dinars. We believe, Mr. Minister, that it would be more right to remain an old solution, to throw out only punishment, and first to charge the principal, because it is in everyone's interest to charge the tax debt, and it is not in anyone's interest to simply harass citizens. For this reason, we have submitted the amendment and I believe that other MPs, especially on the Committee on Finance, will, when the amendments are considered, take into account that the old legal solution would be much more correct than is now proposed. Also, Mr. Minister, I would also refer to Article 22 of these amendments, which is, for the sake of viewers only to read – the decision of Article 3 of this article can be granted a one-time delay or payment of the due war tax, but for up to 24 months, with the possibility of using delayed payments for the first 12 months, with the minimum rate of war not less than 50% of the largest. That's no problem at all, the definition itself is solid, but I would ask you -- you didn't mention it anywhere in the text, either, in terms of what happens to interest, whether interest is still, is not still, is not there, is there? So, when we have a delayed payment, what happens to interest? Also, what is important and what should be commended in this text, which is that the deadline for a statement, of course, is here for parties who are unhappy or have certain objections to the tax inspector's record, is increasing from three to five days, which we consider to be very useful and that in practice it can bring benefits. Also, one newspaper I would also like to commend, that is, if the taxpayer does not file tax returns under the order of the decision of the 5th member, the tax administration submits a tax application instead of a taxpayer. This has been in practice so far, especially us who have been in local environments that have made different tax payments, had problems with it, and this is now one of the better solutions. You mentioned a criminal policy here. Many of my colleagues will say that criminal policy is always unpopular, but I would commend it. I believe that the proposed solution is much better than what was in the old solution, which is Article 177, which says: "The taxpayer, i.e. the legal person or entrepreneur who does not file a tax return, does not bill or pay the tax, will be fined for a fine of 30% to 100% of the amount of the tax due in the tax control process, not less than 500,000 dinars for a legal person, or 100,000 dinars for the entrepreneur." So far it's been between 15% and 20%, so we find this increase justified. In Article 178: ‘If the amount of tax is set out in the tax application is less than the amount to be determined, in accordance with the law, the taxpayer, legal person or entrepreneur will be fined for a fine of 30% of the difference in these two amounts’. It was only 1% before, and believe me, there was the most abuse here. We had a practice that people deliberately, when they fill out their tax returns, were reduced. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the NS parliamentary group will in principle support this law. We sincerely hope you will pay attention to our amendments. There's one more thing I wanted to tell you - it's too much to do, and it's a lot of trouble for all people at the bar, to introduce a more efficient and fairer work of the Republic Tax Administration. It's a good thing there's been some kind of human change. I would have to mention one more thing, which is that in the regional branches of the republican tax administration, there are people who have sat down because of all these accidents and war winds that have hit us here, and there are many people with KIM, especially in the central part of Serbia, who are more or less all tax inspectors or more in the branches of the tax administration. Since it is now popular to talk about diplomats in the press and public information means, it would be good to have a little and a little in the IRS combed and, above all, regional branches, to see who works in these tax administrations, when, where and at which colleges he obtained these diplomas and how these people work in practice. I can tell you about specific examples now, but I don't think it's time or place for that. I can tell you how they behave when they come into field control in individual companies and in what way. Look, the owners of these companies that work, they don't have to be college-educated, but if you come in here with the intention of punishing someone and giving someone a hard time, that's not good. I come from Topola and there is a company called Stara Varoš, where the owner pays about 1m euros per year in tax liabilities. It happened in practice for the tax police, or tax administration, to come with their control, to write a solution, to fall in the administrative court, to block a man's property for a year, and even though he was proved not to have committed an irregularity in the administrative court, the tax authority is not at all considering but again doing the same solution and blocking the man's property for another year. These are the illogicalities that we can only consider to be targeted. That's why I ask you to pay attention to the personnel structure of the Republic Tax Administration, to make these things better, because then it's going to be a lot easier for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3687	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3688	Dear Presidents, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, three laws are before us today in a united debate – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia on the avoidance of Double Taxation. At first, I would say that the JS MP group will support all three laws. Mr. Minister, there is no people who like to pay taxes and there is no state that without the same tax can work. The ambiance in which our economy and taxpayers have been working today for years is turbulence. In this environment, it has been very often that companies and businesses go bankrupt because some other companies, for various reasons as suppliers, do not settle their obligations and then we need to make a difference between these two types of businessmen, entrepreneurs, whatever. Those entrepreneurs who knowingly avoided tax and who, in such a way, avoided tax, came up with cheap crafts at a place where they didn't belong, so they didn't pull them from the capital market, but they had some crafts that, unlike others, they made one environment where there was no fair business. When it comes to such companies, it is certainly necessary to apply all legal measures to punish, but also to take care of those other enterprises which, unfortunately, bankruptcy at some point was the only way out of the current problem. But these people mostly survived in their jobs, they kept working and continued working, unfortunately, with some new company and some new PIB. I'm not sure how far we can go to meet all these people right now. Even on the Committee, in a conversation with ministry representatives, I have made one proposal to try to find some way that tax controls, at least those who have done this job before, I don't mean these new 500 people who are going to be redeployed as tax inspectors, will be able to make a difference between these companies by their experience. When this law is passed, it will be the 11th time in this Assembly to discuss its amendments and amendments to the CAP since its application, which was on January 1st 2003. We've even had a similar job five times in the last 30 months. This proves that it is really not easy to create a mechanism that we can control without the possibility of abuse or that we are not able to apply it properly. This time it's not a small number of changes and additions, because this law treats 86 members this time. We received information on the board that from 189 countries in 161 we are at administrative costs, i.e. Tax burden. That is another reason why the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support such a law. I will briefly refer to the most important proposed changes and additions of the CAP, because my colleague Zoltan Peck at one point was very detailed, and you explained almost everything in your presentation. Most importantly, a new dynamic of the submission of tax returns is now made, exclusively by electronic means, that applies to all taxpayers, except for large taxpayers; more precisely, the concept of parallel tax charges is defined; the powers of the Tax Administration are specified, as well as the issuing of a tax order; a circle of persons who can settle the tax obligation is expanded; a number of cases in which the FIB cannot be assigned; new obligations of banks regarding the delivery of data to the Tax Administration; new rules regarding the delivery of tax acts; a precision of the rules for the payment of taxes by re-counting; a new order for the settlement of tax liabilities; changes regarding the disposal of tax debt, the stalemate. We've got a new legal institute, the IRS is introducing a job as a tax controller, new deadlines for making remarks on the record. What may not be good, but it's probably a mechanism that you've seen from practice, drastically tightening the fines, as well as introducing new types of tax violations. The proposed solutions will have an impact on all entities, both the Tax Administration and the people in the business environment to which this law applies. The fight against the grey economy certainly remains dominant and from the current 30%, we have received information from the Finance Committee, the idea is and the plan is to bring this down to about 20% in the next period, which is similar to the countries in the environment. Most tax inspectors need to lead to healthy competition. At least that's how I see it. It should affect all tax inspectors to act preventively and educationally in their field controls without only going out at all costs to punish someone. In this situation where we are, I think a warning to some great help from automatic punishment is what the situation is right now on the ground. The people never object to paying taxes, because it is the basis for the functioning of the state, but every pain if this law is not applied to everything and the same arches are not used, so I would ask you, if you are in a position to draw attention to the tax inspectors to put people's anger on the state by skipping someone, and someone might be punished by force, just to meet their standards. Business and collection, unfortunately, have fallen in all segments of the economy, first of all, I mean financial flows. We in Unity Serbia will fight to make this climate change at least in the way that is available to us so far, and we will do it the way Dragan Markovic Palm is doing, bringing new investors. What may be a little devastating, but in conversation with all the people on the ground, when we ask them what it is, mostly now they say – listen, it's hard, we got water up to our throats, like almost those people in Obrenovac. But let me get back to the subject. The key effects of this law would be to reduce administrative costs, improve efficiency and control of collection and strengthen legal certainty. That is why the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3689	The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3690	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to the speech of the Minister, and what I must mention is that I cannot agree with just one sentence mentioned by the minister, that these are unpopular measures. In a situation where our country is ranked as the 161st of 189 countries, when it comes to the burden of the economy and entrepreneurs of the tax administration, when the grey economy is 30%, when in neighbouring Macedonia the tax on added value is 95%, and with us 72, I believe that these are both unpopular, but the only possible measures that will bring about and, I hope, lead to greater and more concrete fiscal discipline in our country. What is most important is the effect this law needs to take, which is what I can say, in fact, freely, kills the competitiveness of our tax-paying businessmen and who are responsible for their country and their citizens. Those who will suffer in this domain are those who avoid tax and who represent unfair competition for our country. It all has very negative effects, and that's why we're ranked in such a bad place when it comes to our competitiveness in the tax administration. What's very positive is that from the tax administration itself, 400 people who will be tax controllers will be derived from the tax administration and who will bring such a new capacity to the tax administration that every legal person will be able to be controlled around twice over one month, which is very important, so that no one in this country, any legal person, whether it was an entrepreneur, whether it was a large, small, medium or micro-enterprise, will be excluded from this strict control and what's also important is that this control will be done after working time and that this control will be done on weekends, which until today was not the case. Then we had a situation where the factical businessmen, the people who did that, who worked on the evac, who avoided tax, did it naturally after hours and during the day of the weekend. I mention that this effect, counterpart Vojislav Vujic mentioned this, in the gray economy, it is very important that we enter into this average that is limited in developed countries, in EU countries that are seeking from about 30% to 20%. It's not only a percentage question, it's not just a matter of saving and putting money into our budget, but it's also a question of a clear discipline, strengthening institutions, which will lead to greater ranking of our country, better ranking, which will lead to the attracting of as many foreign and domestic investment as possible. What's most important and what all speakers have been talking about in part is reform and regrantisation of the tax administration. For the first time, and I think that this is a good and quality practice that you have announced, announced by the Secretary of State at the Committee on Finance itself, is that this function or the human resources management sector in the Tax Administration will be introduced. We've had a situation so far that we don't have enough people in key positions, in those positions that are needed to control as best and as high as possible. We have a situation in the IRS today that in the next five years, 10 to 15% of employees will retire. We must now think about who these people are who in one good, good way, are going to replace these people in full capacity. I hope that the people who will lead this human resource sector will also take care of human resources planning and about job design and recruitment and selection, because this is the only model that will make the tax administration more efficient and what is most important, to make the control of the tax administration as much as possible, more concrete and to reach developed countries in that area when it comes to tax collection, and you will agree that this is only one phase in this management process, but a phase that we are very short of, which is the control phase. I will conclude that I also consider the SDPS to be the basis for better tax collection, for greater fiscal discipline to be an increase in the capacity involved in information and information technologies, and in this domain, that this joint billing of payments that we have in the last few months, when it comes to taxes and contributions, already yields results, will be the key to tax collection and better control, but we should also apply it in other segments of our business. I think also in the Law on Planning and Construction, as it is in the United States, Germany, Italy, eventually and Macedonia, which I mentioned earlier, applications for building permits will go electronically, so that through the Office for Quick Answers, we will avoid any corrupt arrangements. I hope your investment laws and laws are on the agenda of the National Assembly this month. I stress that the SDPS will support these bill proposals and that all that we have seen in these laws, all these solutions will lead to greater fiscal discipline, of course, for the benefit of our citizens and for the benefit of our country, which is in the key interest of our party, this government and the assembly majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3691	We don't have anyone registered in the system. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3692	Mr. Minister, we have an amendment to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which essentially introduces several newspapers into our tax system. I have to say, there are some positive things that you have proposed here that will improve the efficiency of the tax administration's work. When I say that, I especially mean the provisions that provide for mandatory electronic tax returns. I think it's a very good thing for businesses in Serbia, for our fiscal system and its collection, a clearer, more transparent and more efficient tax system. Of course, it remains unclear why electronic tax returns have not been introduced before, why their full application is delayed again, and for two years there have been conditions for the implementation of this provision. Somehow, we still can't get to that level of training of our tax administration and tax administration. This law has only been amended twice in the last year, Mr. Minister, and for the last time in December 2013, following pompous announcements of a uncompromising struggle with the grey economy and promised public expenditure savings. Meanwhile, we have a growing, unfortunately, grey economy in Serbia. You have increased the tax burdens in this country and achieved a record deficit in Europe. Until now, what you've done in the domain of tax administration reform, tax system, tax laws, budget income security has fallen into the water because you're being denied and we see that the situation is really alarming. That's why these changes are another indicator of your two-year wandering, I mean the government, which has even implemented four tax reforms. You're preparing the fifth budget and you're constantly changing business conditions, and you know how much uncertainty is devastating and a major obstacle to investment and employment. We think the results of this government are devastating. We think they're devastating for a few reasons. After increasing, as I said, practically all tax duties, including VAT on basic life supplies and a solid tax, tax revenues in 2014 are actually lower than the previous year. We've talked about it before, Minister, we've got a hole in the budget or a deficit. Over a billion euros in the first five months, unfortunately, 63% of the total deficit planned for this year and as much as 200m euros more than last year. That's something I asked last time, you didn't answer me, that's all. I don't understand how you think that's progress and a good situation. You know that the Fiscal Council has warned several times that even if you cut salaries and pensions, as you plan, by 10% this year, the deficit will be over 8% to as much as 9% of gross social product, which is the highest in Europe and the worst result, respected citizens, Serbia's public finances since hyperinflation in 1993. It's this sad picture of your government and your fiscal policy. Public debt has been increased by six billion euros over the previous two years without any infrastructure facility being built in Serbia, no factories, no schools. That's what I've been telling you for the third time, and you don't answer me for it. For the first time in history we have more pensioners than workers, and wages and pensions are significantly lower than two years ago, realistically. The public sector is making losses at all levels because it is run by party incompetents, which you let into these companies. That's why we have so many losses in the public sector. Despite this alarming data, your government and the Ministry of Finance, whose head you have not yet prepared the budget rebalance, although you announced it for June, seems to me, and you announced in February that it will be by the end of June. That's not gonna happen. I know, you're gonna take it out on a flood, but I don't think that's any excuse. Just because of all of this, there is a legitimate fear that the application of this law that you want us to adopt today, as well as all previous ones, will not lead to an increase in economic activity, employment and the recovery of Serbian public finances. The main problem is that the state is persistently trying to save on citizens through reduced income and increased tax burdens, while administration costs are constantly increasing due to uncontrollable party employment in this country, which is why budget expenditure, Mr. Minister, in 2014 is 300m euros higher than last year in this regard. Foreign direct investment, which the government says is the only solution is the lowest of democratic changes in Serbia in October 2000. There are no announcements and therefore no conditions for long-term planning and employment. What the DS is constantly insisting on is to launch economic activity, where the state must play a crucial role, because no one else will obviously invest in the opening of new jobs or this investment will be so expensive for the citizens of Serbia that, if I can put it this way, we will be fat enough to ski later in generations that come and the authorities after your incompetent authority. What is evident is that in the lack of ideas on how to launch the Serbian economy, the government has been constantly delaying the necessary reforms and speeding up the sale of the most valuable state resources, as you have confirmed, such as EPS and Telecom, at low prices, it seems offensive to us. I remember how much you've attacked us for prices that are more than twice what you'll get. And who else remembers that in Serbia? That is why we urge you once again to try to turn to the citizens and their needs, to understand that the greatest need in Serbia is employment, but not party and increase in income, not the model of towers and cities that you represent in Serbia. We think that there are a few things in this bill that are very specific and that I can mention in that sense, and we will try to change it through the amendment process, although of course we have no illusions that you will accept it. Some colleagues spoke of whom the FIB could not be assigned. We also predicted it. We will submit an amendment which will essentially amend Article 26(2) and which will provide that the FIB cannot obtain a legal person whose founder is a natural person, whose spouse or member of the family household is the founder of another economic operator, who has outstanding obligations on the basis of public income relating to the performance. It's one of the most important things that needs to be changed in this bill. It is something widely spread across Serbia. It's a common case that this is happening and that these things appear. We think it should be deleted from Article 13, let's say, because it's too high and it's a burden on banks. We don't understand why you're even introducing this, because it's article 15. The draft law provides for tax returns to be submitted exclusively in electronic form. Why are you dragging banks into the whole system? We have a situation where the IRS file a tax return instead of a taxpayer. We have an absurd situation so that the taxpayer does not file a tax return by order of the tax administration to remove certain irregularities, if the tax return is the basis for recording the amount set out in Article 62, then it submits an application instead of a taxpayer, and we do not know on the basis of which data the tax administration will file that application. There's a lot of illogical things, bad things. What is most significant, what I have left for the end, is indeed a really, really high punishment for entrepreneurs who will have to pay in case of a misdemeanor. I think that's something that shows that your government, your government, faced with the deficit and the inability to charge the state budget, is reaching for the further asphyxiation of entrepreneurs in Serbia, by suffocating the economy in Serbia by raising these amounts by multiple times, I don't know how to define it. The penalty was up to 20,000 dinars, and you say now – the minimum penalty is up to 100,000 dinars, up to 500 thousand dinars, up to two million dinars, etc. We'll try to change that with amendments. I hope most colleagues understand that this situation will affect local self-government. We have a problem with the property tax, which in this way... The republic interferes again in local self-government, further complicated, predicting extremely high penalties. People are just going to run away into the gray economy. That's our opinion. We don't see how you're going to make people pay taxes with fines like this, without the clarity of the tax service on the ground, without inspection services, without incentives. You've got nowhere else to fill the register. About what's going on and what's going to happen in local self-government, in the city of Belgrade, a colleague named Jovicic can say something. The man is engaged in the city's assembly and I guess he knows what this will mean for the citizens of Belgrade and other local self-governments, not only are those billboards placed in Serbia, to celebrate Belgrade, without celebrating another city. You, as a government, are behind this project. Where's your contract? Where's your tender for that? Where's your Emirat firm...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3693	We accept criticism, but just get back to the law. We're not having a debate about government work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3694	Excuse me, Madam President. I always enjoy the minister present, so I can ask him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3695	The pleasure is mutual. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3696	I know he's not in charge. I think you must prevent and educationally act on taxpayers, not asphyxiate them. I think these numbers and what you're changing into. 178a, for example, 67, 66 are things that, in my opinion, will further complicate the very sad situation in our finances. I'd like you to deny me, but not just in a way that introduces order. The dragon measures aren't right. They are the despair of an incompetent government that pushed its hand into a pocket that was empty and pierced. Now I don't know what to do, so let's get it up, if anyone dares to pass by chance some paper in time. A few hundred thousand dinars we're gonna put on their necks. I'm deliberately speaking widely, because I don't want to talk about details, there's a time when we're going to talk about it. You understand. Just don't tell me it's not the subject of this law and you're not in charge. I don't know who's in charge of this country, if he's not the finance minister. Thank you, for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3697	Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3698	Thank you very much. If we even put our hand in the pocket that was empty and punctured, it's because someone else pierced it and emptied it. The amendments to this law are exactly the opposite of what you've been saying. That's why you noticed yourself that you're not going to talk about the details, but you're going to use the generals to talk about it. So this law does not define tax rates, does not define tax burdens. He defines the tax procedure and the tax administration, which stems from his name. It does not choke entrepreneurs who, as you said, would flee to the gray economy. This is a law that sets out preconditions to curb the gray economy. The penalties imposed and defined by this law are penalties for those who operate in the gray and for the first time in the black zone. Changes that relate to what certain tax officials can do, or tax administration officials, refer to that control can be carried out in a way rather than defining the laws ourselves in order not to exercise control. All of these are measures that prevent this, and include measures such as simplifying certain procedures to avoid situations where there is no paper, when the late day, when it is paid to the wrong account and when there is a blockade that takes forever, we are already enabling in the frameworks of the law and in the context of opportunities when we talk about public revenues, reasonable behaviour of the Tax Administration to make business simpler and predictable. That's what an electronic application is for, and it's been introduced for 80% of tax duties. It was introduced and operated for the first time since 1 March. Why has it not been introduced before, I cannot answer that, but we have a realistic plan that is defined in tax form by 1 October 2015, which will reduce discretionary decision-making on how to introduce it for other tax forms. As for budget rebalances, public debt deficits and everything else, these are not the subject of today's debate, but the amendments to this law just need to help us fight the grey economy in order to achieve more on the revenue side without further raising tax rates, so that we don't have to reduce on the bulky side, where, as you are well aware, unfortunately after fiscal consolidations, since this isn't the first one, I've been thinking since 2009, we just broke out everything that can work, and our costs are for goods and services that also apply to the economy in some way injecting liquidity into 30% of what they were in 2008. As for employment as such, for the first time we are registering a reduction in the number of employees in the public administration and for the first time we are talking about it that way. It's no secret. I don't understand what's wrong with that, and what we do when we just say that 15% of the employees of the state administration are, I don't just mean tight, but also in public services, businesses are more than comparable countries have. As for the other topics, the tax administration system -- I didn't believe it could be as destroyed as it was, and it would be until it was rebuilt. The Director of the Tax Administration reports over 70 people. Imagine you fit 70 people. Just to meet these people, you can't meet for two weeks. It's been deliberately changed, I'd say, with which motives I don't know. That's why every kind of control is lost. It is no accident that, as we announced by the Director of the Tax Administration at the same time, we have appointed someone to run HR Tax Administrations, Management or Human Resources Management. In these places, professionals, unlike before and with this intention to build a system that will reward tax inspectors and tax officials in the coming period, not by how much they will punish someone, because their function is not to punish someone, but to reward them by how many services they can provide to taxpayers, i.e. to ensure that business is done in an adequate manner. I think Nikola Corsovic mentioned on the Committee that there are certain cities that have more tax inspectors than Belgrade. It's not an accident, it's because in the IRS as well as in the vast second part of the state administration, there's been a demand for arrest, and when you start treating institutions, then it's no wonder you have an increase in the gray economy and a drop in income. In that sense, this law does not go alone, it goes parallel to the plan of curbing the grey economy which is a very operational job in the Tax Administration and in other bodies, but also with the process of building tax administration institutions. So, the system of human resources management, human resource renewal, the age structure in the Tax Administration is such that it requires, as well as the education of tax inspectors, or the formation of tax inspectors, because this profile cannot be found on the labour market, but must be built within the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3699	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3700	Dear Chairman, I am advocating the violation of the 107th and that in both of his positions, primarily regarding the direct address of the MPs we had to hear earlier and also of the insult of the Parliament's dignity. We have such an address, as well as an insult to the dignity of the Assembly by one MP who belongs to a parliamentary group, or a foreigner who had a director of the Tax Administration in whose time the biggest taxpayers and created themselves here, because apparently some people were privileged, could be tycoons and not pay taxes at all. Today, such people and these people are getting incredible criticism about the economic situation in the country. Indeed, such an insult to all MPs and the Assembly at all is inadmissible and this does not make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3701	Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3702	Dear People's MPs, I believe that we could have this debate today into some normal flows and talk about the item of the agenda, and that there are no malignancies in the thesis, as the previous authorised fellow MP did. When I say substitute thesis, there are certain things that are dangerous and that any normal citizen of this country can fear. It was said - for the first time more pensioners than employees, and this comes from that man, that political option, which in just four years of government from 2008 to 2012, doubled the number of unemployed, leaving 400,000 people out of work. So, 400,000 people less in Serbia only work during one government and thus brought that line closer between the number of employees and the number of pensioners, and now the pensioners are in the way. We've put the employees out of work, now the pensioners need to be expelled. That's dangerous stuff. These are dangerous substitutes for the thesis that someone in this country is intruding, and the employees, and the pensioners, the Democratic Foreigners, are intruding. Also said that party incompetents work in the public sector. I can accept this, but we are better off being incompetent than being like Milutin Djajic, who is now being processed for a billion dinars of damage that has been done to the Belgrade City budget. Well, better and incompetent than unfair. I see they're in the way of models here, they're in the way...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3703	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3704	... The plans, they're disturbing the dreams we're going to make. Eh, I wish we had plans left behind, that there were other models left. But this time it doesn't really bother the models, it bothers the desire that we will grant to Belgrade and Belgrade citizens, which is the new geography of Belgrade and "Begrada na Voda"... ... No matter how much that finger in your eye.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3705	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovičić, a replica of the direct mention of the name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3706	Dear Chairman, MPs, Mr Stefanovic, there is no need to worry about...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3707	Mr. Jovicic, please address me as the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3708	... Okay. Mr. Chairman, you have no reason to worry about the situation in the City of Belgrade, as the city of Belgrade today is a city that will come out of a difficult economic situation, primarily thanks to one responsible financial policy and economic policy of people who want savings and those things that are unnecessary for officials and the city itself by cutting these costs to bring the budget to one positive zero so that we can move on, since we know that the former president of the DS has destroyed the budget of the City of Belgrade. What is also important, we heard from the new DS president, who says European Serbia has an alternative and that Serbia needs to be established. Mr. People's MPs, explain to us how you destroyed the Serbian economy before you want to establish Serbia. On the other hand, you as a party have great difficulty paying certain debts and certain taxes. Since you can't respect it, I advise you to do some capitalisation or possible privatisation, and we've seen unsuccessful privatisations of certain tycoons who wanted to carry out over DS, and apparently they let you go into bankruptcy because they see that they can't do anything with you and can't do any more good to make it happen. We are also fighting against these tycoons and such DS, and thank you for caring for the City of Belgrade, but Belgrade will indeed be a city where we will hire people and a city where "Belgrade on Water" will be a reality, not, as you say, some model or marketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3709	The word is held by MP Veroljub Arsic as an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that the current finance minister is not easy. It's not easy to write laws like this. It's not easy when the economy is broken. It is not easy when someone spent 7.5 billion euros on public spending and buying votes from 2008 to 2012. It is not easy when only the City of Belgrade spent as much money on building a bridge on Ada by buying the famous "Spanca" as it costs the thermal power plant in Kostolc, which is now being created, which will employ between 300 and 450 people and whose purpose it will not be to build a monument for life but to hire people and create a new product. It is not easy for the current minister because a man who thought that at one point Serbia was his private front, threatened Prime Minister and Finance Minister Cvetkovic to close his famous "Delta" unless he was delayed from paying the VAT. It is not easy when the then prime minister went to Serbian private Miskovic on his feet to beg him not to. What did they do? What did they produce? So they can open new trade chains in Bulgaria where they pump money from Serbia from our VAT? According to Slovenia, too. It is not easy for the current minister to write these laws when in 2012, we arrived at 26% of the unemployed from 14% of the unemployed and at that time significantly more pensioners were than people who were in employment. It's not easy for a minister to write laws like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3711	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3712	What? Learn the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman. You just gave me your word as an authorized representative of the Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3713	Yeah, but I gave you a line. You should have said you were using the time of the authorized representative. Here you go. I made it clear you were entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3714	Explain to me, do I have the right to reply or should I address the MPs as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3715	When I gave you my word on the line, you were supposed to say they were using the time of an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3716	No, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure right now, but the chairman when he sees that it's lit, he needs to point out on what grounds. I didn't ask for the right to reply and my application was long before there was any basis for replication at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3717	Go on, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3718	It is not easy for the current minister when he found a tax system and a tax administration that was devastated and which did not serve its purpose. It is not easy for the current minister to make such laws, how a poor ordinary right arises during the DS government to return to those legal frameworks. I'm not saying that DS has been making very bad laws, but it seems to me that a much bigger problem than bad laws is that certain people have implemented those laws. That's the biggest problem we've had. When you find one state administration, and the IRS is part of the state administration, completely destroyed, then you have a drain into the gray economy, then you have a gray zone, then you have problems. What is the purpose of lawmaking? Someone said: A great punishment to destroy entrepreneurship. Let's take a look at what the penalty is for. Does punishment serve only to be punished or a high penalty serves preventively so that someone does not commit an offence? I think it's much more important to be preventive than to have the circumstances when punishment has to be imposed. What is tax evasion anyway? Does anyone even think about what the state loses when tax evasion is carried out? He loses two basics. One that I think is often more important to members of the former regime, which is how full of the RS budget, which they did not care about while they were in power. In my view, it's much more important that we protect the part of the economy, the part of the enterprise that operates in accordance with the law and regulations of this country from thieves whose excuse is a bad economic situation not to carry out their tax obligations and destroy the real sector that adheres to the law. I now call upon those who criticise this law to declare whether they are for the economy and entrepreneurs who work in accordance with the law and the full budget and provide jobs or for those who do tax evasion? Excuse me, if someone steals something from a physical person, then he's a thief, and when someone steals something from the state, it's nothing. Well, he's a thief then. Let them plead whether they protect those honest entrepreneurs, honest businessmen or thieves who cut off from the state in every place and destroy our real sector. This law aims to introduce everything into legal flows, absolutely everything. I know that this will come up with resistance, and I know that it may be an unpopular measure, but the only possible guarantee that not only does it charge the budget, but only that those who work in accordance with the law have full protection of the state, because that's why they pay the tax. Every citizen has the right to protection from the state. How was the fiscalisation control carried out in Serbia? It has often been done on a political basis and on a political likeness or incompatibility. Now imagine a facility that has 350,000 dinars of registered traffic in the fiscal register and an surplus of 450 dinars being closed for 30 days so that its competition, which is dear to that government, could work. Who's at a loss? The state, 10 or 12 workers from the company, went unpaid. Why? So some punk could work or maybe the tax inspector would fill out the quota. That's how it was until 2012. Why hasn't everyone done that tax control? Why hasn't everyone done the fixation control? Because that's how it suited those who ran the country back then. Then we have one custom that a bad exception becomes a bad rule, and then when we want to eliminate a bad rule, someone says – no. Yes, we want to arrange the state, we want our tax system to be fully operational, not just by the state, but by the citizens. Why do I say citizens? Do we want normal health care, do we want good roads to drive cars, do we want to have modern military, modern police, good science? What do you pay for it? Tax. Do not experience something the wrong way or represent that experience in the wrong way. These tax changes regulate one area. Why not publicly announce entrepreneurs and legal entities on the tax administration website that they are taxpayers? Does anyone have anything against it? So far, even the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic has published 100 of the biggest taxpayers. Was that enough? No, it was mostly legal entities that were under bankruptcy, and no one's data mattered, except that something was written in the papers about how the state was doing to solve the budget deficit issue, but it can't because, well, it's already late. What do you think that means to colleagues of entrepreneurs and founders of companies? That's what it Please tell me who will cooperate, who will work with the taxpayer? If he doesn't pay his dues to the state, he won't have a colleague to deal with. In this way, we force them to work within the framework of the law, not to have hundreds of companies in the blockade now, and it is said that the result of the blockade is the economic crisis in Serbia. Is it just the economic crisis in Serbia, is there also that someone is in charge of the goods, sold out for the money, put it in their pocket and left the state at large and the one he took the goods from? Yeah, it happens in 90% of the cases. He can also establish another legal entity, establish another legal activity and continue as the old one. Is this a problem with this law that will no longer be able to do, which we will be able to say – is, these are that steal from the state, steal from you too? Looks to me like there's a classic theme replacement here. It's true that we have extra employees in the state administration. Let's see with that budget system law what we're going to do with that surplus, because obviously there are problems in the tax administration at the level of the Republic that there are not enough personnel that can effectively monitor and control tax collection on the one hand, and on the other hand we have tax administration employees in other public administrations who just don't do anything, sit around and wait to get paid, and some don't even come to work. If we were to fire them, someone would say we're firing the unsuitable. Here you go, gentlemen, they'll be able to cross from other state authorities and the tax administration and redistribute the tax administrations themselves. There was another bad practice in the tax administration until 2012, which is that there is no quality systematization of jobs, there is no analysis of the purpose and justification for a large number of employees in some tax administrations. It was even that they were employed in the tax administration, let's say, an example, since I'm from Pogorec, if there's a place of freedom by systematization in the Tax Administration in Požarevec, some favourite DS, for example. from Vranj will get the solution that he is employed by the Tax Administration in Pozarevec only to get a job, although the tax administration has never seen it in his life. That's how it was done until 2012. Now don't be surprised about the gray zone, because of the gray economy. Someone produced it, someone created it. It's not tax policy that's to blame, it's that we're made of exceptions, and the bad rules, and the bad ones, who just have to stop. The only way is to adopt this and a series of laws that bad practice, bad rules stop and thus Serbia begins concrete reforms of the state administration, as promised in the presentation of Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic during the election of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The law is only a first step towards state administration regulation, and the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3719	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a replica to Mr Jovicic's presentation. I'm sorry, I should have given you my word before Mr. Arsic, but I thought Mr. Arsic also appeared on the line, as the authorised representative of the strongest and largest parliamentary group speaks at the end. Here you are, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3720	Mr. Chairman, I answer to Minister Krstic. You let five SNS MPs, I know you're used to five on one, and now five of them have spoken for 20 minutes and a few minutes, and I need to answer in two minutes. To whom and where should I begin in this stream of nonsense we've heard?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3721	Mr. Stefanovic, you're wasting your time. You were directly mentioned by Mr. Jovičić and you have the right to reply to his presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3722	Not only did Mr. Jovicic mention me, but the other two speakers mentioned DS afterwards, among other things. You've forgotten that before, the minister spoke to me and I have the right to answer if I'm not satisfied with what I've asked him as a question. So, you're forgetting two key bases and I'm asking you to give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3723	Here you go, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3724	Thank you. So, Mr. Minister, these fines you mention, they're not for unregistered legal entities, but for registered legal entities in the law. You weren't exact in that sense. You know that article 178a says you're going to punish a legal person for up to two million dinars if he doesn't have some paper. Do you think that's normal? Do you think that's how our otherwise torn economy works? What I remembered was that one speaker tried, of course, traditionally to abuse DS speech, anyone, that we're against pensioners. We're not against pensioners. We're just saying that, apart from destroying the economy, we unfortunately have more pensioners than employees at the moment. God forbid anyone wants to shut down their pensioners, they wouldn't have anyone to feed Serbia. From your authority, people are waiting for pensioners to have the opportunity to buy bread. It's a picture of your Serbia today. Don't talk about holes, Minister, please. You say what kind of hole you found from the predecessors of your government, Mr. Dinkic. Imagine that, you who have a hole of traditional nearly two billion euros in the budget, you're telling us. Well, for you, Mirko Cvetkovic was Kissinger, although he didn't do economics. But I mean, I don't have a stronger expression, because your neoliberal and economic idols don't have that strong names. What I noticed, I have to tell you, I'd like to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3725	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3726	... to the tax administration do something about large taxpayers and tycoons close to the regime and tell us what you're going to do specifically about people who are hugely obliged to pay taxes to this country and what you're going to do with them... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3727	Time. Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3728	Mr. Chairman, here, I'll be your lawyer, although I don't think I need to be your lawyer. All SNS speakers have been given the right to speak according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and Mr Djukanovic, who reported to the Rules of Procedure, and Mr Jovičići for direct address and direct mention, and me for mentioning the government, or SNS, and Mr Arsic as an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group. So, this innuendo of bullying usually comes from the one that rapes are lagging. As far as the traditional five-to-one thing is concerned, there's been a mistake. Not five-to-one, eight-to-one. That's the difference between 6 and 49%. Eight to one, that's what bothers the previous speaker. Unfortunately, re-replacement of the thesis, again something that has not been said, is again hiding the reasons why the number of pensioners in Serbia is higher than the number of employees, and that is why no one is really happy, but because of the increase in the number of unemployed people in Serbia during the government of Kissinger Cvetkovic. If Mr. Cvetkovic Kissinger was leaving people out of work, here, I admit it, Kissinger did. However, there are even more dangerous things being said here. Tax pay is sacred in every country, whether arranged or unsettled. Tax pay is sacred and obligation of every individual. Then it's a dangerous claim when someone says: suffocating entrepreneurs or dragging their hands into their pockets. There is no hand in the pocket, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens of Serbia. This way and this law punishes those who stick their hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens by not paying taxes. Because of this problem that stands both this year and last year and 2010, here, I was worth enough...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3729	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3730	... So let's say, here's the 2010 text. In 2010, too, you were bothered that there was a tax evasion in the amount of two bridges across Beška. And then it bothered you, and now you invite people not to pay taxes. What is it, a crime?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3731	According to the replica, MP Borislav Stefanovic, and after that, MP Aleksandar Jovicic, we are closing the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3732	Please, you also said we were thugs and you said we were thieves and you said things, you just didn't say... (Zoran Babic, from the place: Who said? Yes, you did. Watch out, you're taking a thin line of insult already. You just didn't tell us how yellow, evil Democrats made such a deficit? How did the Democrats do the six billion-euro debt? How did the evil Democrats increase, I'm saying everything compared to Cvetkovic, the number of unemployed by over 50,000? How did they make so many losses? You can't answer that. What kind of chicken did you make in Serbia? For all that money, nothing, not one. That's what you have to tell us in the end. It's a very simple question. Since I see that Mr. Jovicic will come forward, so I asked if you were aware that this law abolishes the prerogatives of the authority of local self-government, which are the only ones under the Constitution and the law authorized to supervise, control of property taxes? That's what I asked you, not to tell us about Gilas' budget. So you proved through the report that Gilas owed Belgrade 400 million and had a surplus of four billion dinars in the budget. Be precise when you're getting up. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Not true. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3733	Please, Mr. Djukanovic, allow the MP to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3734	So it's not correct. I said the name of a great statesman, with my ignorance of guiding someone from the economic field, because your heroes are unacceptable to me. But there is a new one, called Mendelson, who is now hired, I quote -- because Blair is very expensive, so we get a man, these citizens need to know, which is a recordr by number of affairs in European politics and which, like Stros Khan, as well as Guzenbauer, will work for free.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3735	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3736	If it's Cvetkovic Kissinger, then you're all Mendelsons.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3737	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The replica has Alexander Jovičić, by direct mention of the name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3738	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, you're wrong about Belgrade. Mr. Gilas may have owed Belgrade 500 million, perhaps 700, but has increased his wealth ten times thanks to the citizens of Belgrade, because he knew how to get his hand into their pocket. However, it is also important, Mr. Chairman, to stress that the SNS primarily wants to establish a system in this country. Finally, we want this law to give us a chance to have on one side those who pay taxes to this country completely legitimately, because the foundation of the state is that it is financed from taxes so that it can be supported and raised, and on the other hand those who are smarter than that tax do not pay, and we know that your party also has these problems. We want a system in this country and this is the continuation of that Law on Income Tax, where we have established a system that will make it easier for businesses. This certainly is the continuation of this struggle and the Labour, bankruptcy and privatisation law will only be the crown of it, to finally establish in the next year or two days what you couldn't in 12 years. I would really not comment on the statement that Mr. Cvetkovic was Kissinger. We don't need Kissinger in Serbia, we need Lazar Pasic from the time of Pasic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3739	Mr. Stefanovic, don't throw the speaker away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3740	... who was indeed one of the best finance and economy ministers, when Serbia's rebirth was at the highest possible level. I believe that this government can compare with this government and will cope with all the difficulties you have made here, because 400,000 people have lost their jobs thanks to the Democratic Party. Give me something constructive, make a suggestion on how to lift this country together, except that you're just saying today what it was that couldn't be done in three months.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3741	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3742	Of course, Mr. Chairman, I will call again to article 107, both of these positions, directly addressing the MP and of course insulting the dignity of this House. I would really ask you to pay attention in the future, because it really doesn't make sense that those who came to these places were the Minister of Finance just because they were members of a lobbyist group, such as "Ces Mekon" or someone like them, whose representative, or the director of that group, is in prison, or because of the proceedings against him, and who served here exclusively to create privatisation, and all of them were members of the Democratic Party. It really doesn't make any sense that people like that are doing something here today. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Shame on you, so first you will... . )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3743	Mr. Stefanovic, please allow the MP to complete the presentation. Don't throw it out of the bench, it's rude and you can't do it. (Zoran Babiæ, from a place with which right.) Please, Mr. Chairman, with what right? ) Please, Mr. Djukanovic, continue, and next time you will receive a warning, although I am not ready to do so, but you certainly deserve it at today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3744	In any case, this too continues to be broken by the Rules of Procedure by this throw, but if someone's nervous about the arguments, what I can do, that's why it's at 6%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3745	Thank you. As per the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3746	Mr. Chairman, Article 108 on the session of the Assembly is being taken care of by the President, or by the chairman. Please take care of what's being said from this pay phone. Threats – you will be arrested next, were part of the Democratic Party's vocabulary by 2012 and wrote indictments and judges, and arrested, and oppressed, and tyranted, both political insolents and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's not a courtroom, it's not a rally. Is this democratic behavior or impotence? Impotent because they have nothing to boast about. What can they say? What they did, except get 400,000 people out of work. Destroyed finance, destroyed economy. To boast, and now they threaten from the seat of the MP who will be the next to be arrested. And you allow it. There's no next time. If we want a serious political scene, any mistake absolutely must be adequately rewarded, or punished. But that politics and that the MP threatens another MP, a respected counterpart, Djukanovic, that he will be arrested next, what is this if it isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure? What if it's not for sanctioning? Are we going to suffer this tyranny? No, I don't think we can put up with tyranny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3747	Thank you, Mr. Granny. National MP Aleksandar Markovic answered the question. On what grounds? After the injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3748	Mr. Chairman, a direct violation of Article 109 has been made. The Rules of Procedure which says that the reminder is given to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the President of the National Assembly; who speaks before he has asked and received a word, and we have had the opportunity to see it; who, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks about a question that is not on the agenda; if he interrupts the speaker in the presentation or throws away, which we have had the opportunity to see from Mr Stefanovic's behaviour; who directly addresses the other MP, we also had the opportunity to see it; if he uses curses and offensive expressions. So, Mr Stefanovic is here, i.e. there is a basis for sanctioning Mr Stefanovic by several articles of Article 109. Rules of Procedure, valid. I understand Mr. Stefanovic's nervousness, I have every possible understanding of the situation in which his party is located, a party that is being rash, a party that literally disappears, but the home of the National Assembly is not and cannot be, nor will there ever be a place where you can behave in this way to Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3749	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, but you've just broken the Rules of Procedure, too, because you spoke directly to another MP. The word is by the MP Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3750	Mr. Chairman, members 106 and 107 have been injured. Why? You've warned me in this case, and it's okay, but at the same time you've allowed several speakers before me to say such disgusting things without any reaction, including mentioning some people who are in prison and brought into contact with DS, with whom they have no direct connection, no membership or anything. Who are these MPs to interpret who is in prison, why and on what grounds, with the most disgusting accusations. Then they think everyone here should be as calm as bugs and be quiet, and I was just calling for the unselective fight against the corruption that Mr. Vukic announced. Why are you afraid of what the Serbian prime minister announced? I quote Prime Minister Vukic, and you're looking for a warning for me, so how can he do that? So, please, there were very many offensive things, very many threats, very many difficult qualifications for the entire political group and bringing about direct people who are in jail. It's neither correct nor civilized, nor human. If someone yelled, in this case I did, and I know why I did it. Not because I'm nervous, but because I think that fight should be unselective, so when I mention it, then you're angry even more. I think it is unnecessary and I think the MPs have reacted too emotionally to something that is ultimately your party's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3751	The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3752	Thank you, Madam President, and before we begin on the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, it's very nice that you came because you weren't in the O.R., I have to ask you - four SNS MPs advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3753	You've received your word as authorized, so go ahead and talk about the bill, just as authorized. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3754	Are the people who run this session really appropriate...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3755	You received your word as an authorised representative, I made that clear to you. Do you want to talk about the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3756	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3757	You can check in with the Rules of Procedure later. You haven't called back. Here, talk about the law. The Rules of Procedure make sense only if we respect him, if we don't respect him, then we better put him down.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3758	All right. So the NDS parliamentary group will not support the bill, because this law allows the repression of taxpayers without the tax administration being controlled absolutely by anyone. In our opinion, there is a possibility that, with this kind of work of the tax administration, there will be no one left to charge taxes. We are also asking the question – why does the tax procedure and tax administration law not be passed and the law on budget spending control and why does the budgetary inspection not do its job? So why not better and stronger control of local self-government and the ministry, public enterprises, because it is obvious that there is a huge deficit this year and that by 21 billion dinars, there is a greater budget deficit in the first five months of this year than last year. We have an example of the control of the tax administration by the Citizens' Protector where he was, on 8 January this year, not the previous finance minister but Mr. Lazar Krstic, where the Citizens' Protector says that the Taxation Administration at the Ministry of Finance did not act on the recommendation of the Citizens' Protector to pay interest to citizens for months, and since the Constitutional Court has assessed such an account as unconstitutional, return the money. It is a finding of the protection of citizens who have the view that the state budget must not be charged by charging green interest from citizens against the provisions of the Constitution. So, the tax administration is absolutely uncontrollable, even deafening the recommendations of the Protector of Citizens. By the way, by adopting today, this law seems to me to be giving firearms to some kid who doesn't know how to handle those firearms. Also, there is a major problem of the poor and inadequate relationship of the tax collectors who are in contact with the taxpayers through incompetence, incorrection in treatment, passion, bureaucratic manners and unwillingness to understand a problem. Thus, all that is done now in the tax administration affects the fact that more and more people are defining or intending to move to a gray or black zone and thus our budget will remain without current income. The minister says the tax administration was rigid and inflexible. I'd rather say unkind and unprofessional. There's a series of deliberate cases where the tax administration broke the law and against the law made a solution to the collection of public incomes, which don't really exist. Furthermore, the minister says that it has sometimes been paid more to break the rules than to pay the tax liability. With this law being passed, it will pay more to shut down the company or the store, to move to a gray or black zone, and therefore, to pay even less taxes. I'm also interested in how with the help of this law, Mr. Minister, or the IRS intends to control the black zone. So how will someone who has no registered activity be controlled? Also, I am interested in the minister's position on whether the citizens will not, or do not have the opportunity to pay. So whether tax evasion is done because someone does not want to pay or simply is unable to pay their contributions. I also saw that the intensity of this law, that liquidity is not provided by not paying the tax liability, but by the financial market. How can someone who is already insolvent provide liquidity on the financial market? So, I agree it's inadmissible for the state to lend to losers, but on the other hand, it's completely illogical that someone who's inequitable can provide liquidity on the financial market. Our parliamentary group has submitted 10 amendments, two of which are crucial. What happens when you send the solution to the taxpayer by simple mail, and after 15 days of receiving that solution in the post office, so, from the moment you send it, not from the moment you receive the solution, is considered a rightful solution. Do you know that in certain villages the post office only arrives once a week? If, for example, the postman gets sick that day, the taxpayer from that village will not get a solution that he will be able to file a complaint, because it will become a forceful one next week. Also, we have provided for amendments that the tax administration has an obligation to send notices within 30 days of the date on which the tax debt is found to exist. It has been concluded from experience that the tax administration is not responding in all situations and therefore there is a build-up of tax debt, i.e. interest, and then interest sometimes goes beyond the main debt, and simply the taxpayer is not able to pay it. Once again, the NDS, ZZS and Green Serbia parliamentary group will not vote for this law because it believes it allows the tax administration to repress taxpayers, and on the other hand does not introduce any control over the work of the tax administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3759	The word has Minister Lazar Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3760	Thank you very much. I'll just answer it for a second. We'll consider all the amendments. But what he's been doing through this whole discussion is some idea that tax is some kind of volunteer category. It's not a tax volunteer category. It's not a tax category that can be negotiated either in political campaigns or in any case. We can talk about what's the right model, what's the correct tax system, how much interest rates should be, whether we need to reduce, increase, how much tax burden should be, is if we want to have a greater or smaller deficit in situations where we can choose that, which I hope, come at some point. But about someone not being able to pay their taxes and then what? This is defined by some other procedures, such as, of course, with a certain amount of logic and reasonableness introduced into this law, related to the reprogramme and some other things. But if someone isn't able to serve their duties, maybe they should do some other business. Tax is first and foremost obligation, not last. That's the whole idea. As far as this is concerned, if the postman gets sick, he doesn't bring a letter in time, 15 days, and at present it's regulated by law so that the time of dispatch becomes legal. We're actually altering and supplementing now made that 15 days later, we'll consider your amendment, to see if it makes sense or not. The reason was because taxpayers simply avoid receiving, so we introduced that the tax administration can file tax returns, if that's right. You can't outplay, or you shouldn't be able to outplay the state, and it's not about whether we're soft hearts or hard hearts. When the law is applied, we simply owe those taxpayers who pay regularly to ensure that others do it, that they do it under the same market conditions, that they are not credited by the state, and if they are not successful, someone else who is more successful will buy them, and that is economic law by Kissinger. That's the whole law's intention. It's not about whether we are, it's only reasonable because a simple tax can't be a category of trade, it can't be a method of repression, because I'm never the kind of person who's been in the IRS, who's been tax officials for years saying that for the first time now, no one's suggesting where to go in control, who to control individually, who to harass, who to let go, who to take down a blockage or stuff like that. We didn't do it, we didn't make discretionary decisions of any kind. With this law, we end extraordinary control. Now, believe it or not, it's only going into emergency control, there's no regular control. So, we want this law to eliminate the minister's discretion or anyone else's right to point a finger because someone's resented it or because it's politically similar at a given time, maybe in a certain local self-government, or wherever it is to say, let's now control them, harass them. Of course, in our forest regulations can be found a material reason to impose punishment. That's exactly what it's all about. Also, what we've introduced, and you've asked and explicitly, is that even unregistered actions can be controlled, so it's a black zone, and it suggests to me that you've submitted the amendment, of course we're going to submit amendments, to consider if they make sense, considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3761	I thank the ministers. We didn't extend the work after 1800 hours, so another colleague of Spasojevic, possibly if he's holding on to time. Here you go. The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3762	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the tax administration is another one in a series of reform laws that will contribute to creating a more favourable economic climate for new investments in Serbia. In addition, the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration will allow the state to enter into a more energetic fight with the grey economy of a multi-annual problem in Serbia and Serbia's economy, which unfortunately was on the rise last year. Serbia is losing more than 30% of GDP due to the grey economy, which is the highest percentage in Europe, as much as 6% higher than in the region. The reasons for this must lie in a poor legal solution, in an economic crisis that has led to a weaker business of taxpayers and thus created the inability to settle their debt tax, but also in a low degree of awareness of tax morality, high unemployment and poor institutional capacity to control and fight the gray economy. This is why today we have before us these draft laws aimed at improving the conditions of the tax administration's work and making it more effective to detect tax malfeasances and evasions in order to increase the collection of taxpayers' claims. By proposed law, the tax criminal policy has been tightened, and the SPS parliamentary group supports it, and the existing provisions of the law on general tax offences by legal persons and entrepreneurs have been extended and classified into four groups, and thus are classified and the penalties envisaged, depending on the degree of the infringement committed, and compared to the current infringement policy, the minimum relative amount has been doubled and the highest has been increased. Amendments and additions to the Law also provide for rules on the conditions and situations in which a serious violation of the tax offence may be prohibited if control is established. The assumption is that stricter penalties will affect greater tax discipline in terms of increasing tax collection, more accurate and more regular data reporting and the facts necessary for taxation, and that this will affect the repression of the grey economy. The draft law, more specifically Article 36, regulates the delivery of a tax act to the taxpayer and that is something I believe that this bill is not the best solution. Namely, the tax act is intended to be delivered in writing to the taxpayer, by mail by sending the recommended or ordinary consignment or by the tax authority official to the address of the tax payee’s seat indicated in the APR or to a special address for mail reception which is also listed in the economic register or at the address of the residence or residence of the natural person. If delivery is carried out by sending the recommended consignment, the tax act shall be deemed to be delivered on the date of delivery. If the transfer was not possible, the tax act is considered to be a delivery of 15 days from the date of the transfer of the tax code to a tax office which is not a party in this relationship and I believe that there may be certain problems, as this obligation ends with the delivery of the tax code to the taxpayer. The tax administration has been exempt from proving that the tax act was actually delivered to the taxpayer, and the post office is not obliged to provide proof to the tax administration that it also handed over to the taxpayer. In this way, conditions are created for the rights of taxpayers to be violated, as the question arises – what happens if the tax act is not really delivered to the taxpayer and thus the taxpayer cannot be introduced to the contents of the act and cannot react positively, whether he submits a complaint to a tax act which is as a legal remedy and provided for in Article 180. Tax code and tax administration. The application shall be made within 15 days of the date of delivery, i.e. the receipt of an act by the obligor. If the act is not delivered, the taxpayer will not be able to appeal within the prescribed time limit and will thus be denied the right to a legal remedy which is otherwise guaranteed by the Constitution. The delivery of letters in the tax procedure of a very important action, since, in addition to those infringements following certain basic rights of taxpayers, such a way of delivering acts and no liability or tax administration, no mail that the act is indeed delivered to the taxpayer, there may be some rights of the taxpayers - the right to initiate administrative proceedings, the right to object, etc. I believe that in order to make the tax administration's tax administration more efficient and responsible and more responsible, but also to make the taxpayer's relationship more responsible to the tax acts, this member should be complemented by the obligation or the postal or tax administration to prove that the tax act is indeed served to the taxpayer. The SPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to this article. Also, the draft law provides for a stricter tax control of taxpayers, which is needed precisely because of the tax non-discipline present in Serbia. The law has to be the same for everyone. You, Mr. Minister, said the tax must be paid and that this is the first thing to be done and all those who are taxpayers must have the awareness that the tax must be paid, but they must also have the awareness that they will no longer be privileged and those who do not pay in relation to those who regularly settle tax obligations. On the other hand, the contribution must be made by both the state and the tax administration and its inspection bodies, so that when they control taxpayers, they not only control those who regularly pay taxes or generally hope to find something else because they will be able to punish them, so if they pay taxes, they will pay that too, but that control must be established evenly, to be controlled, now primarily those who are irregularly paying taxes or not paying it at all. Also, more control big companies because they're usually the big ones, and leave these less for later. Also, the law provides for stricter control of the exchange and foreign business of gambling. The taxpayers are obliged to provide, within the time limits laid down by the tax administration, all information necessary to determine the facts relevant to taxation, as well as the facts relevant to determining the situation in the control of the exchange and foreign gambling. This law also provides for the electronic submission of applications in all forms, which will help reduce the discretionary rights of tax officials to change amounts on certain tax returns. The proposal to amend and supplement the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which is before us today, provides for amendments and additions to Article 29. Article 29 provides that the authority, organisation or other person responsible for enrolment in the prescribed register of persons performing the activity cannot delete a person from the prescribed register without proof of termination of the tax obligations, i.e. to delete from the records prescribed by the tax law, which shall be issued by the competent tax authority not older than five days at the time of submission of the request to delete from the prescribed register. I think you and I and everyone here will agree on how up-to-date the officials are both in the Republic and local tax administrations. Five days is a very short period and all those who have been able to apply for a removal from the register know it. In this way we will still have a problem erasing entrepreneurs, whether they owe or do not owe taxes, because in five days we get confirmation from the tax administration, given all previously needed certificates to be delivered in order to obtain this certificate, is indeed a small deadline. The SPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment proposing that the five-day deadline be extended to at least 15 days. I think that would suit the tax administration. Otherwise, the question may also be asked whether an entrepreneur is required to provide a confirmation in order to delete from the register that he has reconciled the tax obligations, because in accordance with Article 85. The company law corresponds to all its assets, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the tax administration has developed instruments for forced collection of unpaid tax. I'm not sure if it's necessary and whether it's too much to introduce and add a condition besides the intended tax collection instruments. This is the 11th amendment to this law that was passed since 2003. Its application in practice is more important than lawmaking. We need to be aware that we have an inefficient state administration, that we have an insufficient number of tax inspectors and that we need the root of the change in tax laws, the root tax reform, the new tax laws, that we need to create more favourable conditions for business, a more favourable business climate that gives safety to economic operators about the sustainability and application of the law, because it is the only way we can get in the race to attract new investment and investors. The SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the drafts of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3763	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3764	Thank you very much. Once again, we have a law that, by an emergency procedure, is connected to laws that have nothing to do with this matter and I still don't understand why this poor manner is still being implemented to combine incompatibly and that maybe even some good law is trying to push under the grain or overnight through this parliament. I was able to read this text once. There are a lot of good things in this law, but I will vote against because the procedure in which the law came to parliament and the way it tries to adopt itself quickly is something that is not appropriate for Parliament, for the Serbian government, for the state in which we are. Surely I support the tightening of criminal and criminal policies, as far as tax discipline is concerned. That, of course, needs to be sharpened. To have more inspectors, of course, to have more regular controls and less extraordinary, of course. It's all good stuff. These are things that have already been mentioned in various times. We just had a replica of one side and the other half an hour ago. I can tell you that I will quote Pasic, I rarely do that, but both sides were right, and both have done a lot of bad things that have affected the state of our economy and the state of our budget. Zero tolerance was a very interesting topic a year ago regarding tax obligations. After that, as far as I'm concerned, what I'm reading in the media, the liability of taxpayers has fallen even further. We have almost 35% of GDP in the gray economy. These are all things that tell us that there is no big progress here, that there is no reform whatsoever, that this is a law that needs to tighten the tax liability of taxpayers, or a taxpayer in Serbia. It is one good law, probably, but the way it represents parliament, in addition to that lack, another set of laws necessary to change the situation in the Serbian economy, without all of it together, we cannot expect any major progress. We have your announcement, Minister, that the budget rebalance will only be in September of the month. Well, it's time for a new budget, that's when the 2015 budget is written. What are the effects of the rebalancing if it is adopted in September of the month? What happens to those whose budget is bound by the time of September of this year? I think it is very important in this Tax Administration Act and the tax procedure to increase the level of avoidance of selectivity in the application of the rules that exist. It is possible that there are now no recommendations or orders on your part who should be harassed, and who not, who needs to go for 15 days, and who needs to be visited in a broad port, but that does not mean that some other partner powers don't do it, that someone else from the government doesn't use some channels and the IRS as a means of political struggle. It's true that it was in the past. I've been here since I was eighty-something years, and I've been a victim of that kind of behavior more than once, but it doesn't matter. It is important that such a way can be resolved in the economy of a country and it is important that we have the state of play that we have today, and the situation we have today is, you yourself said, on any scale of competitiveness, Serbia is the last place in Europe. There's no state beneath us. Even the self-called or uninformed state of Kosovo is in some places better than we are. It's a catastrophic condition. Such palitative measures, even when they are good, cannot significantly change the situation in this country. I think the conclusion that the economic and professional public has already reached, which is that obviously this current government, which today is 60 and the other day, has given up on reforms and is dealing only with this or that way of maintaining itself in the position of the government, which has a huge number of MPs, a large majority in parliament. It's all deserved...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-01-0.u3765	National MP, time, five minutes and two seconds. Thank you. You'll continue tomorrow. This is where the work ends today. We'll be back tomorrow at 10:00. The first speaker is News Tonchev. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 124 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladimir Pavicevic, Meho Omerovic, Dr Diana Vukomanovic and Stefana Miladanovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motionary Lazar Krstic, the finance minister, Irina Stevanović Gavrović, Assistant Minister of Finance, Dr Dejan Dabetic, senior advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Marjan Blešić, independent adviser at the Ministry of Finance and Dragan Dejanovic, adviser to the Public Debt Administration. We continue to work on the order of the registered speakers in the joint principled single search on the drafts of the law referred to in point 1. The 2nd and 3rd agenda. As I was saying, the first speaker is the People's MP Novaca Tonchev.
