ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u667	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 174 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 200 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the next National MP, Dejan Nikolic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session, in addition to the MPs and candidates for members of the Government, also: the President of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia, representatives of religious communities in the Republic of Serbia, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the Chief of Staff of the Army of Serbia, representatives of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the President of the Republic Election Commission, representatives of the Assembly and the Government of the AP Vojvodina, the Director of Police, representatives of the City of Belgrade, as well as other high and respected guests who are following the meeting from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly today. Let me greet them on your behalf. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure and extremely for Sunday, therefore, beyond those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to choose the government as soon as possible, to end the process of establishing the highest state ora and bodies after the elections held in March this year. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you could see, for the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, I found the following D's d'e n'e d'e : 1. The choice of government and the oath of president and members of the government. We're going to work on the agenda. You have received a proposal for a candidate for Prime Minister who is in agreement with Article 112 paragraph 1 point 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. You have received the consent of Mr. Alexander Vukic, a candidate for Prime Minister, to accept the candidacy in writing. Also, you received a motion for a decision on the government's election, with biographies of government candidates, submitted by Mr. Alexander Vukic, a candidate for Prime Minister. In this way, and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the conditions have been met: that the candidate for Prime Ministers should be presented to the Government's National Assembly and put forward the Government's programme; that we should open a search for a candidate for the Prime Minister, a programme for the Prime Minister and candidates for the Government's members; that we should determine the number of Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers without portfolios in the Government, on a proposal from the candidate for Prime Minister and elect the Prime Minister, Vice-President and Minister; that the members of the Government should take an oath before the National Assembly. I now ask Mr. Alexander Vukic, candidate for Prime Minister, to present to the National Assembly a programme of government and propose its composition. The word has a candidate for Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u668	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, distinguished dignitaries of traditional churches and religious communities, your Excellency, representatives of the diplomatic court, respected citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken countless times in different circumstances, addressed to a small or larger number of people, had fear and porch, felt obliged and responsible, making it hard for me to get some kind of understanding and support for the words I say, for ideas, plan and programme that I represent. Today I am here in front of all of you, in front of our people, knowing that every sentence proposed depends on the lives and future of our children, the future of every citizen of Serbia. I'm shaking like a rod, not because I'm scared of my own or the political position of the party I'm running today, but because the responsibility I feel I can't compare to anything in the world. The cargo is too big. I know a lot of people in my place felt that way. Some didn't, it was easy for them. That's how their mandate went, quickly, simply, and many in Serbia don't even remember their results. I want a result for our Serbia, not power and power, but a strong country that we will be proud of everywhere in the world, which we will love and keep, defend jealously and courageously from everyone who will repeat to us countless times that there is no better everywhere, that there is nothing good with us and there will never be good, a country that we will stop complaining and moaning over our fate and saying that because of someone else is bad and difficult, the country that we will take both shovel and hammer and pencil into our hands, roll up our sleeves and show and stubbornly protect and defend what we all feel and think about our Serbia, and that is that our Serbia is all we have, we love more than anything and it is time to stop Serbia just looking for and take, but to give it ourselves, our work, our knowledge, our knowledge, our efforts and before and more of all our honesty, responsibility and love. It has not always been as bad through Serbian history as we Serbs and other Serbian citizens have seen the situation as difficult and unbearable. We would remember that and not admit it in ourselves until 20 or 30 years of such a terrible and difficult age and we never wondered – but could we have done anything to make things look different? Did we at least want to accept for a moment that our cynicism, everyday and day-to-day banishment, resenting everyone and everyone for everything that we have forgiven ourselves so easily and not once, infinitely criticalism, with no desire for action and real work, disrespect, someone would say, other peoples, I would say – disrespect for other people and those who live with us and those who are far away from us, underestimation, contempt and hatred for all who are successful in anything, austerity in work and dedication, but also wasteful and boastful, contributed to a difficult situation in which not us and not above all, but our beloved Serbia is today? Today, after the great national victory in the March parliamentary elections, none of us are allowed, nor will he be able to show any haughtiness, passion, splendor, because before us is a difficult time to correct the mistakes of all previous governments and show the people determination, courage and commitment in implementing painful but healing and rescue reforms. A government that stands before you today is unique to many things. First of all, it is a government formed within a very short period of time in accordance with the needs and interests of citizens. In addition, the government enjoys strong support for this parliament, almost unprecedented in modern Serbian political history. However, this support would mean nothing if we as a government didn't use it to change the lives of our citizens for the better, because we don't want power for the sake of power and we're not looking for a reason to stay in our chairs for four years. We want to take advantage of the huge trust given to us by the citizens to change Serbia, make it a better place to live and how our children and children would like to grow up in it. In the formation of the government, I managed the interests of Serbia and of our citizens, not of any other local postulates or objectives. Why? Because I don't think any of the parties in Serbia are good enough to manage all the key jobs in Serbia alone, so neither is the Serbian Progressive Party that I love so much, but also because I think that we need the knowledge of all our best people to recover and modernise the country, even though they sometimes came from an opposing or otherwise thinking political camp. Serbia is more important than us, than any of us and all of our political parties. That is why I was also inclined to choose the rotating president of this high house, because I felt that creating an atmosphere of trust, mutual respect and respect through democratic dialogue was something that would contribute to a stronger and faster unification of vital, state and national interests, and I did not mind that the parliament was chaired by Mr. Canak, Mrs. Vuckovic, but such ideas also did not get the support of all because of the small political particular interests. The program I'm about to present to you today is bold and ambitious. From this moment on, you will hear not a lot of promises, you will hear about dedication and pawnage. Over the past 15 years, I would dare say 25 years, the public of Serbia has heard many promises, but the effect was weak. I am aware of this, and I know that non-believers and cynicism prevail in Serbian society, especially when it comes to politicians and governments. However, I would like to assure you of one thing today. I would never dare stand here in front of you if I didn't think this government's goals were within reach. Those who know me well know that I am pessimistic by nature. I always think of the worst scenario possible and always prepare myself for the hardest, but actually it has helped me to set high and ambitious goals and standards in my life, but to work hard to achieve them. If anyone here, or at their home, thinks the program I represent today will be easy to reach, then he doesn't understand the gravity of the situation we are in and the tasks ahead of us. For too many years, politicians have sold fairy tales to the Serbian public. Lived at the expense of future generations. We stole from ourselves, misrepresented our children, spent what we didn't actually earn, and basically didn't have. I've read all the exposés of previous prime ministers, looked at the results they've achieved, and one thing I can do with pride here today in front of you and our people to point out, which is that this exposure will contain not only the directions of our policy, but for the first time and a thorough, serious, responsible and comprehensive plan and a programme of work of the new government. I know well that whatever you do in Serbia, no matter how hard you try, no matter how much you fight, no matter how much you love your country and do the results, there will be a lot of skepticism, a lot of anxiety, because people have lost their trust in everyone and everyone, they have lost hope today, by nagging and reaching out, overcoming the hard reality that we live in. I want to apologize to all of you for, of course, not being an obligation, the very word "exposure" says that it is both an exhibition and I will, of course, give some of the thesis and extras without reading the text. That's because until this morning at 5 and 20, I've been working on putting together what I want to talk to you about, and you'll see because of the weight and volume of the topics that have been processed, that it wasn't literary work or formal work, that it was rarely the case in the past. Once again, receive my apologies. We carry the heavy burden of our past and as if we still live in that past by fighting old battles and arguing about who's right and who's wrong. We don't have to agree on everything, but it can't burden our present in a way that blocks our future. Instead of the rearview mirror, we need to get into the hands of the binoculars. We need to look into the future and find the best place for our people, our economy, our education and our culture. We need to change our attitude to work. When Bill Gates was asked how he managed to get rich, he replied – it is important that we work hard and have as little need as possible, we should learn to sacrifice and give up. But how did such a life philosophy specifically help me? By convincing her of all my employees. Unfortunately for us in the public sphere and in the public sector, it's only been working for two, two and a half hours. In the private sector for five and a half hours. With that kind of work discipline, there's not much we can do. Our work ethic is not on a high level, mildly speaking. Saving culture is also not our strong suit. It stretches how much gum you allow is perceived as something archaic, and consumption, especially one that crosses the boundaries of our opportunities is advertised as the greatest virtue. Cash loans that solve the problems of all previously accumulated loans become a common solution. When such loans become inaccessible for understandable reasons, it is the state's fault, as it is easier to place everything on Serbia than to accept its own responsibility. Belgrade is dirty, Belgrade citizens like Ivica and Marica leave traces behind so they can return home. Every 50 meters, one clue at a time. This is how our capital was spoken of in the 1970s, wrote the great Duško Radovic. Unfortunately, nothing has changed, except that the whole of Serbia now resembles this kind of Belgrade, and of course, apart from being able to criticise quality, we cannot admit that we are guilty of it ourselves. No, there's always someone else who threw a cigarette, a bag, wrinkled burek paper, and we're never alone, but we're always the first to criticize, curse, abandon. That is why, on behalf of and on behalf of the people, who will form a cabinet whose head I will be, I say that we love Serbia and believe in Serbia. This love and faith will be our fuel to change Serbia, improve it and make it a place where optimism will rule, in which the symbols of this love will be the need for citizens to show, not just a propaganda slogan. We want to build a decent, tolerated and successful society. I am using this opportunity to thank citizens, before presenting the new government programme, for the historical support given by the SNS in the elections, as well as the parties that were with us or are in the coalition today. During the election campaign, we did not deceive the citizens. I didn't say that the earth would flow with honey and milk, if anyone voted for us, and I didn't promise impossible, on the contrary. The secret of our success is the fact that we tell people the truth, no matter how painful and unpleasant it is. The truth about the difficult financial situation in which the country is located, the truth about relations with Pristina, the truth about negotiations with the EU, the truth about corruption and crime, as well as the truth about the state of society. Telling the truth is healing, but it's not enough. Citizens expect politicians to tell the truth, but also to offer solutions to problems. In the end, citizens must be convinced that you are the very politician who has a solution and that you will not profit from the poverty of others, but will share the fate of the people. Before we move on to the changes this government is about to make, I'd like to say a few words about the things we're going to continue to do, which have been initiated by the previous Council of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The previous Serbian government was successful. She managed to separate herself from the tycoon, started a serious fight against organised crime and corruption, launched many processes, such as EU membership talks, normalising relations with Pristina, restored Serbia's international credibility, and partially restored citizens' confidence in state institutions. The previous government has achieved many important successes, but to implement the root reforms that await us, we needed a new democratic legitimacy of citizens. So, her first success is that Serbia no longer manages estranged centres of financial power, tycoons, interest groups instead of the government, chosen by the people. That was the case in Serbia in the previous period. We had the courage to face these powerful financial interest groups. The price was not low, and today many of us are exposed to persecution, shouting, insults, threats. Our obligation to the robbed people is to tell the truth about who has benefited, by putting people's resources into the hands of these people. For the first time in 20 years, Serbia has been ruled by those chosen by the people, not by the tycoons, and for the first time by the government is the function of the people, not by millionaires who have become rich on the people's coat of arms, and so will be in the future. Its second success is the fight against corruption and organised crime. One of the most significant steps in this fight was the Public Procurement Act, which we proposed in the 2012 election campaign. Large savings are now seen in public procurements brought by this law, which still has problems, with a value higher than 100m euros, according to the latest analyses. In addition to this law, which we will promote, we will carry other systemic measures necessary to combat corruption. Corruption has destroyed our society, and it is one of the reasons that we are divided into one great and poor minority and one small, and a vast majority. This division undermines the stability of our nation and our country. When it comes to fighting organised crime, several major economic affairs have been resolved over the past two years in which many politicians, former ministers, took part. The murderers of Slavko Curuvia have been arrested. Darko Saric is behind bars and there are procedures for many crimes, which no one should have investigated before. That's how it's gonna be in the future. They won't be protected, no matter how much money they have, which party book they own. The third success of the previous government is the start of membership negotiations in the European Union. I want to make it clear that the European Union is not an ideal community, because it has both faults and problems. But it's the best association of states that currently exists in the world and we belong in its membership. It is during the negotiations on membership in the Union that our society will modernise and change, because we will adopt a number of standards in public administration, judiciary, education, health, businesses and society. Small and poor societies like our standards would never reach their own, and that is why membership in the European Union is a great privilege and opportunity. We continue negotiations in good faith that by the end of this government's term we will bring them to an end. Of course, it's not all up to us, but it's up to us that we can and we have to do it. This process is our priority, and if we work hard, I believe that Serbia could become a member of the European Union by the end of this decade. I didn't make a hard promise, because it doesn't depend on us all. Our fourth success is the start of a normalisation process with Pristina. That's where I want to be clear and precise. We didn't create a Kosovo problem. It came decades ago, not to say centuries ago, and our present situation in Kosovo and Metohija is the result of many mistakes committed by numerous Serbian leaders and governments. Also, I want to make it clear that every day the non-resolvement of Kosovo's problem has cost us even more difficult situations in this province. We're the responsible authorities who interrupted it. We courageously entered into negotiations and fought for an agreement that guarantees the Serbs respect for fundamental rights and has improved our international position. We will not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, but we should live together in peace with Albanians. That's why I want to work on solving these problems and I don't want to stick my head in the sand. All who criticise us about Kosovo and Metohija should propose a better solution. The process will continue, and I will personally represent Serbia at talks in Brussels. After all, after a lot of tirads that we have heard about who, and how it represents the interests of our people, a half of the votes that the Serbian Progressive Party received in Kosovo and Metohija clearly demonstrates which, as well as whose policy our people in Kosovo and Metohija support. Our fifth victory is that Serbia is again trusted abroad and that we have regained our international credibility. The Serbian government is again believed, it is known that what we say and do, and a serious and credible government is a condition for the arrival of foreign investors. In addition, we have improved relations with the countries of the region. The government I will lead will continue to develop good relations with the countries of the region, accelerate co-operation in the region both economic, cultural, sports and political. In the end, the previous government deserves the people to trust again the state institutions, the government, the police, the military. By our honest work, we have assured people that we as representatives of state institutions are doing our job responsibly and honestly. The great support of the citizens that our lists received in the previous elections is evidence that we have worked hard and different from many. We won the elections because the citizens gave a half-assed support to our reform and change programme. Now's the time to get to work. To tell what the government is going to do, we need to know what kind of Serbia we want. We do not want Serbia living from today to tomorrow, Serbia, which all the government does comes down to solving everyday problems and where the government is considered successful if there is some food, electricity, medicines, or if somehow it is patching holes on the roads and all this is nice and successful on its media. We want Serbia's strong middle class, good economy, stable pension insurance, good education and better health care. We want a safe Serbia in which we will know that no one will offer our child drugs at the entrance to school, Serbia in which no one can unpunishely commit violence against the weaker, women, minorities or children. We want Serbia's strong and independent institutions, unsuspecting police and an effective judiciary. So, Serbia as we wish is not one of the realities in which we live today. Those of you who are longtime MPs are likely to remember that some other prime ministers, who in this high house explained their cabinet programme, had good wishes in which direction Serbia should develop. Unfortunately, the programmes remained only on wishes, partly on wishes, because the letter is dead on paper, and Serbia was rarely better at the end of their term. Unlike them, we know that meeting our goals is not without change in society, economy, but also the mentality of people. That's why I talked about it so much, behavior and working habits. We have a strong political will to change and implement reforms. One of the biggest preconditions for Serbia's progress is to change our way of thinking. So far we've been known to be a nation who knows what it's against, but doesn't know what it's for. We can't go on like that. The earth is exhausted and only together can we help her. I deeply believe that citizens have given us great confidence because they recognize that it is not my goal to strengthen the party that I am leading, or any personal benefit, but to strengthen and recover Serbia, a vision that should look like its society that we want to build together. That word "together" and essential, and I want to underline it once more. Our government's goal is to provide, together with citizens, a prosperous and successful nation based on a cooperative community where your success depends not on others, but on your own efforts and efforts. Unemployment, economic problems, a society of unequal opportunities, a dissatisfaction with the health and education system, problems are also a danger to every family in Serbia. When Serbia becomes a country of equal opportunities for all, when the advantage comes to those who think among us that they can work to improve their position and contribute to the development of society, not those who have more money, or have a real membership book, we will be able to say that Serbia has won. That's why we need a change in mentality, that our children learn to do everything in life by working, to learn in school to prepare for the future, not to get a grade. That knowledge is the greatest capital and that the state will support it if they show initiative, individuality and have ideas. If we succeed, we can expect young people to stay in Serbia. That is why young people and improving their position as well as changing their thinking are one of the goals of the new government. We want to find a way to help young people get a job here, to afford a home, to raise and educate their children, to take care of their parents and to stay alive in Serbia. I want this government to show that it is capable and mature, to create reasons why young people will stay in Serbia. The key words of our program are change and modernisation. Modernisation is a key issue for Serbia in the next decade, regardless of whether we are talking about economic reforms, judicial reforms, health and education reforms, or when we talk about our relationship with the European Union. Unless, as a government, we can modernise the country, we will fail Serbia. In Serbia's interest is not exclusively economic recovery. We want people to understand as soon as they realize that that recovery is not enough if it is not followed by cultural, social, recovery of the whole society. I am aware that there will be a lot of those who will continue to speak against reforms from the beginning of the new government's work, but at the same time I am ready to accept on myself all the weight of reform, deeply convinced that the consequences of the survival of the same unchanged state are terrifying for our country. "I believe me, I have no fear of reform and modernisation. The only fear I have is fear of a future where we were not responsible enough and brave enough to implement reforms. “ This is what Tony Blair said, but I wasn’t smart enough to think of something better or more appropriate. "The changes are... “, as Benjamin DiIsraeli said, the famous English prime minister nearly a century and a half ago “inescapable and constantly advanced in countries. ” We want Serbia to become a advanced country. We want Serbia to become a region leader and a major regional workshop by progressing. Imagine Serbia as an example of development and social well-being in the region. Can you do that? I can imagine it, because I want to and I fight every day for a country where all citizens will be winners, and against a country where several of them, riching in the victory of the rest of us. This is my first promise to you ladies and gentlemen, I mean most important. As long as I am the Prime Minister of this country, we in the government and myself will personally share responsible and fair. We won't spend more than we have. We will fight the thief and defeat him in the Republic government and local self-government and in everyday life. We will not lie to the people and we will work hard every day to find solutions and make a better life for the people. This is and should be the basis of every contract between the people and his government, because without trust any word or paper is worth nothing. I believe that Serbia can be a successful country, but we lack discipline and we have lost faith in ourselves. We like to complain and expect everything to fall from the sky, instead of getting up early and working hard, so we can get straight. I will not promise you today that any person can change that mentality overnight, but over the next four years I will show you that there are better and fairer ways to lead this country. I'm going to set it up as a beacon of hope that things can be different. The way it can be achieved is the program we're going to present today. Like I said, I'm going to talk a long time today, and I'm sure someone will already make an effort to tell you how many minutes it took. I'm going to dedicate two-thirds of my exposure to the economy, because I see it as a priority for the government's work over the next four years. In addition to our economic objectives, which I will soon explain in detail, the government will also aim to strengthen our social institutions. Let me point out once again, the first and most important goal of this government is to transform the Serbian economy, a modern, adapted to the new globalised 21st century markets, and that is the only way to ensure a better standard of living for a longer period, not just a year or two. Economic growth in Serbia has been scarce and weak over the past years. It's not all the fault of the global economic crisis. Those who led our country acted recklessly, spent money we didn't have, stole for themselves, employed more and more people in the state sector. The money for the investment has been wasted. No concrete decision has been made, and those made were simply disastrous. I wouldn't be exaggerating if I said another or two years on the same road would lead us to the "Greek scenario". It is a small comfort to me that former Prime Minister Cvetkovic was against the cardinal bad decisions made by his government. That's what we've established from the government's session. Only because of an economically unfounded increase in pensions in 2008, we have lost five billion euros to date alone, and only because of that five billion euros, due to an unfounded increase in public sector wages, and another two billion and 400m euros in just five and a half years. Seven and a half billion, respected citizens of Serbia, we spent what belonged to our future, the future of our children, that we didn't make any factories, that we didn't make any investments, that we didn't do anything to hire anyone. It's like we threw in a well, increased public debt, and it's going to continue, because that's what we're paying off. At the same time, we have increased the fiscal deficit in the most irresponsible way and people in this country need to know. There have been enough of such irresponsible policies to be favorite and loved politicians, because this has been destroyed and today the future of our children is being destroyed, and those who say – let us pay out of credit social contributions, these are the most irresponsible and dangerous people in this country, and with such practice this country will stop. That's the past now. Today we represent a new government, a government that looks to the future, which is ready to do whatever is necessary to rebuild Serbia and has returned to its leading position, a government that is willing to sacrifice itself in order to achieve the goals, a government that is ready to ignore party needs and the results of the next elections in order to meet the needs of the next generations. Dear MPs, in order to adapt our economy to the 21st century, to develop the potential of human resources, to attract investment, to build an economy for the future, the current government will engage in three large tasks that we are fully committed to. First, reforming the way our economy works by adopting a very extensive, detailed and serious reform package in parliament. It will be a new fundamental, detailed law that will create a real market environment in Serbia and help destroy corruption further. These laws would reform the way we operate in Serbia and allow us to come up with much more investment and capital. The fight for reform would be continuous over the next four years. It would be a process that would include all the resources of society and life in Serbia, and we would do this as much as possible with dialogue and agreement of the largest number of social factors. But this is something that's been delayed too long, and this government will be dedicated to. Our second major task will be to develop our private sector by giving incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises to employ more people themselves and to reduce the number of people in the public sector. In the long run, we want to make the private sector in our country more attractive to work than the public sector. A healthy private sector is the basis of every modern economy and successful country. Times have changed and Serbia will also have to change. The government will stop wasting people's money in a senseless way and installing itself and liberating more resources to invest in jobs for the future and help private employers and entrepreneurs succeed. The third biggest task in the economy is to consolidate our budget by cutting costs and increasing our revenues. So we would have more money to invest in job creation, raising living standards, education, health care, culture, science and infrastructure. No budget consolidation, no cost cuts, and no more income, there's no money to invest, and that's why I was just talking about those seven and a half billion that went missing just because someone thought that when the elections were over, they could do whatever they wanted. These seven and a half billion are not invested in investments, not invested in the development and progress of this country, but these seven and a half billion today add additional burden to us and bring us the new 140m euros that we have to pay each year. Dear MPs, when we engage in these three great tasks, our economy will begin to look more attractive to investors. We have presented this programme to many experts within and outside Serbia. They all agree that the application of this programme can make Serbia the most alive and attractive economy in the Balkans and in the entire Southeast European region for two or three years. This is a program for our recovery and resuscitation as a nation. Now I'm going to give a deeper and more detailed presentation of all the elements of the program. As I said, the first and great task is reforming our economy. In Parliament, we will bring the most comprehensive and modern package of reform laws to create a basis for our economy to function as in all modern countries. At the beginning of the first week of May, a reform package of laws will be given to parliament for discussion. This will be the first phase of reforms to follow the next phase in the coming months. I asked the new president of the Assembly, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, to have the first part of the reform package adopted by July 15th, about 65 days and night. Dear MPs, I would ask you to sit down day and night, weekends and holidays to show the people of Serbia that we are serious about these reforms. You will eat, sleep and wash in this hall by July 15th, and the people of Serbia and the whole world will know that we are ready to do anything to keep what we promise. It won't be easy at all. Many people and organizations will object. Some of them will protest in front of this building, the government building, and who knows where everything is. Maybe strike starts. Some of them can't wait. It's their job, too. Your job will be to respect them at all times, to listen to them and engage in dialogue with them, but to finally make a decision. In the previous campaign, I experienced countless inconveniences, I thought neither guilty nor obliged, because I know that none of us, nor I, in any way, participated in the destruction of Serbian businesses, in bringing workers to the brink of breaking and entering. But anyway, people in me as a representative of the government saw the culprit for all the robbery privatisations, for the bad business of their firms, and who knows what else. So, don't doubt it, and without guilt, we'll be guilty. To succeed in our reforms, we need to take a good look at what Serbia is like today, and then talk about Serbia the way we want it in four years. I will address the main problems and their causes, and then define the goals that we will achieve by the end of this government's term. Unemployment, poverty and Serbia's fiscal deficit are among the largest in Europe. The state is in a very difficult and bad financial situation precisely because of what I was just talking about, and I'm going to give you all the precise and accurate data. The pension line is among the lowest in Europe, with an unreal pension ratio to the average wage. Health has been marked the worst in Europe for many years. Serbia is third in the world by the number of educated young people who leave it forever. The educated staff who remains largely has diplomas of suspicious quality thanks to the collapsed education system. I have to tell you that I know it's not popular, but unfortunately, that's how it is. We don't have elite schools or schools that are gonna throw us out the best. All we have are schools that are going to throw out an elitely large number of diplomas. The public administration is massive, expensive and extremely inefficient. The same applies to the largest number of state-owned enterprises, one third of which is in major restructuring, and the rest are not particularly competitive on the market, but remain thanks to taxpayers' money. In many areas of importance for economic growth, legislative regulation is inconsistencies, complicated and illogical. Large infrastructure projects have been implemented slowly, some for decades with continuous unplanned investments while parallel, irresponsiblely gossiping or negotiating new projects that equally tap into the city. In order for you to understand what I'm talking about, you've noticed in the past 15 years, and even in the past year, I don't share a period, every minister has been out talking about a new big project and usually, you'll notice, it was about credit financing. We should get a loan from a country to finance this project. In order to get that loan, someone always made a combination, and part or whole credit would never withdraw. These roads, stripes and everything else we'd never have done, and there's always been a big fight in the government, since I analyzed and read the stenographic notes from different governments and from different government sessions who's going to run these jobs, and none of these jobs are finished. We have no illusions about what can be done in four years, but we are absolutely certain what must be done in four years. That is why we have opened a set of clear, precisely defined objectives that will represent strategic priorities in the work of the ministries. On the basis of these objectives, the success of the government and each of the ministers will be measured and assessed. So, everything I've been talking about so far has been about our most important task, which is to improve the Serbian economy and the standard of living of our citizens. A strategic goal without which this objective is not possible is primarily the stabilisation of public finances and public sector reform. This is undoubtedly the most difficult part of the reform package we represent. I'll tell our citizens what's absolutely important. Everything we do won't be easy. All the difficult and painful measures we take will last for the next three years, and by the end of 2016, citizens will have a healthier economy and more wages and halting public debt growth and a lower fiscal deficit. The fiscal consolidation measures, a consolidated budget deficit, will drop to a sustainable 3%-4% of gross domestic product by 2017, leading to a halt in public debt growth of around 75% of gross domestic product and a gradual decline. I repeat again to everyone, this kind of growth in public debt is the result of a catastrophic and cardinally poor decision that, without any economic decision, without any economic basis, without any clear reason but the desire to pass on to someone, increased wages in the public sector and increased pensions. It's nice to win the election, it's nice to be popular, but as you can see, today we're going to be struggling, and not just today, but many years ahead, just because some have been so irresponsible that they can afford it all. A reduction in the number of public sector employees, especially those who are there thanks to membership in political parties, not their expertise and the amount of their earnings, to a level that can support the private sector, from which the funds are financed. After several months of public sector wages would increase, so that by the end of 2016 they would be higher than today. Full professionalisation of the management of public enterprises and the elimination of losses in these companies. Completing privatisation and resolving the status of state and social enterprises, as well as those in restructuring. As I have already said, the great task this government has to build a modern economy in Serbia is to develop a private sector and transfer resources and employees from the public sector to private ones. My goal is for young people in this country to want to become entrepreneurs, technology engineers, innovators, company owners, not public sector officials or secretaries. The conceptual change is an essential part of our 21st-century vision of the economy. Over many years, governments in Serbia have been the easiest to hire people in the public sector instead of helping them create something for themselves. These people who were hired weren't ordinary people. Many of them were party people, with ties to close authorities. It was a vow of silence, and today it is. We hire you, and you and your family and friends vote for us. It wasn't just with one party. It was the case with all the parties. Instead of encouraging resourcefulness and creativity, the system motivated people not to do anything but look for connections. This system kills people's driving power and turns our young people into cynics, teaches them that knowledge, pawnage and talent are not rewarded, but simply a bond. Dear citizens, that era is over. As you can see, today's public sector is much bigger than in many other countries we want to compare with. We have almost 800,000 people working in the public sector. Yes, many, most of them do very honest work, like teachers, nurses, doctors, soldiers and cops, but a lot of them get money and don't do anything. Every penny they get is less than we can give for education, health care or support for those who are really poor in our society. Also, many governments in Serbia have been easier to burden the private sector with taxes and charges. It was easier for politicians in Serbia to burden private firms than to stand up to party heads. In the modern economy, the private sector should be a locomotive that drags the whole country forward. But in Serbia, we've raised so many obstacles on the tracks, we've stuck the sticks in the locomotive points, and we've loaded cars with so many unnecessary people, the train just doesn't move anymore. It is simply not normal for the average wage in the public sector to be higher than that in the private sector, and with us, it is almost 30% higher. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world, it's an unsustainable system and Serbia can't stand it. A country like Serbia cannot afford to be an employer for so many people and pay them so much. We pay the salaries of money we don't have all the time, the citizens of Serbia, to know, all those who boasted of paying you something, they boasted of taking credits, so we'll have to return it, return interest, and two more times when you count the debt increase and the increase in the fiscal deficit, not because they were able to provide it or to create it in economic terms. That's why our debts keep growing and our loans get more expensive. The public sector, in fact, all of us, are stealing from the people we're supposed to serve, rewarding semi-employed bureaucrats and so on. A party army, instead of creative, valuable and citizens with a better initiative, all of this at the expense of our future generations. I'm sorry to interrupt. If I may ask, I understand that you don't want to hear, that you don't want to listen and I'm sorry that I'm probably a little distracted and tired, if you don't have a little more time to be patient, then speak up and get whatever you want. There are two ways to make this happen. First, we'll make it easier and more valuable business in the private sector, we won't raise taxes or add to the private sector, we'll clear banks of uncharging loans, so they can start lending to small and medium-sized enterprises again. We will also create mechanisms to subsidise these loans to strengthen the liquidity of the market. It is a great task for us to cut the expenditure side of the budget and increase revenues. We need to balance our budget. Budget balance and fiscal consolidation are not a goal in themselves, but it is necessary to be integrated into the global market and avoid a financial crisis such as the one in Greece, Cyprus, and even powerful economies. We need to show investors that we can run our own economy and act responsibly. Today's investment markets are built on trust. If the market and investors won't trust us, we won't have the means to transform our economy and create more jobs. The reduction of expenditure in the national budget primarily means taking care of our state-owned bleeding companies. Every year these companies lose between 750 and 800m euros, which we all have to pay. Some of these companies don't produce anything worth selling, let them have a sustainable business model, but they're being mishandled, some of them used to make certain powerful people rich through a waste of funds. I want to say for you and for the citizens of Serbia that every month, as the Government of Serbia, we spend your money, all of Serbia's citizens, $8.5m to cover our losses in the modern-day Irons, and they have the right to know all the citizens, that when someone asks to strike and when someone comes to strike, that you know that we took your money, that there we give money for both the wages and the losses we make. That doesn't mean we're giving up these people. On the contrary, we will fight for each of them. We'll fight for that company, too. We're also talking to the Ural Car Agency, and we're talking to some Western companies, and we're going to try in every way to secure a job and extend the work of the Smederjevo Irons. We've had great luck with FAP, great luck with Icarbus. All the things that some couldn't solve in the past 15 or 20 years, we did it, but we certainly won't make it. The restructuring of state-owned enterprises involves either selling to a strategic investor or transforming them or closing them. We will do our best to achieve the first two options, but if nothing succeeds, so I call on all the on-call critics and all those who would like to give us lectures to help us in this business, if they had already helped themselves, the state and those people in the previous business, when these companies were destroying. Part of the reform package I just presented is designed to help investors buy state-owned enterprises. A much more modern labour law, the law on bankruptcy and the Investment Act will help convince investors that they can earn money in Serbia and improve and build successful companies that buy. As you can see, we who haven't eaten onion or smelled onion, nor guilty or debtors, will have to taste the most acidic soup that was cooked by those who have managed Serbia so irresponsiblely. In order to achieve large objectives and tasks in all areas of social life, from economics, the fight against crime and corruption, the development of our energy sector and mining, the progress of major and significant infrastructure projects, stronger agriculture, better and more successful health and education in general, we need to create a system that makes up three pillars of reform. The number and situation of the problems Serbia faces are the result of inaction or misaction over a long period of years. Therefore, for relatively fast success in overcoming these problems, it is necessary to simultaneously, synchronised and determined state action in several directions. Therefore, the programme for Serbia's economic recovery will be based on three points: a strong and credible stabilisation of public finances that will lead to public debt growth stopping by 2017; a public sector reform that will lead to an improvement in its efficiency and quality of public goods and services it produces, which means a more efficient administration, more accessible and more efficient health and quality education, a more efficient judicial system; a reform of the economic environment that will lead to a strong and rapid downturn of risk and business costs in Serbia. These three points represent the three pregnant pillars of the economic and social reforms ahead. Failure in any of these segments can easily bring down results achieved in other fields. In order to achieve success in all three segments, it is necessary to monitor a precise reform implementation programme through three phases: by half of the current year, by the end of this year and in the period from 2015 to 2017. The aim of the reforms to be implemented in the first 100 days of the government's work will be strong fiscal consolidation, with a view to ensuring the preconditions for the sustainability of public finances and a comprehensive reform of the business environment, in order to create circumstances for investment inflow, employment and economic work. Reforms to be implemented by the end of the year will aim to address the problem of general financial indiscipline and create a framework for establishing justice in the public sector's profit and employment system, which is an important prerequisite for medium-term sustainability of public finances and economic growth. Reforms to be implemented between 2015 and 2017 will primarily aim at creating conditions for improving public sector services, education, health, state administration, which is an important factor in future economic growth. The first 100 days of government we plan to do next. Fiscal consolidation. To give effect to the fiscal consolidation programme, we need to start applying it as soon as possible. Accordingly, a budget rebalance will be adopted by the end of June on the basis of a defined fiscal consolidation programme, which will ensure that the consolidated fiscal deficit in 2014 is significantly less than the current estimates. Without fiscal consolidation, the deficit would be even 8% this year, which we cannot possibly allow. With such a deficit, we would be the worst in Europe. Although someone is not looking forward to it, it is a fair deficit, without hiding below the lines, as we have had cases where, in the deficit and state spending, you do not count the payments of "Serbiagas", I am glad that Bajatovic knows it and that the climate of your head, therefore, pay off "Srbigas", payments to Smederjev Irons and many other enterprises in restructuring. What we are telling you today, we show you what is fair, what is real, and what we are truly disputing and what we really manage. It's a fairly depicted deficit, without hiding below the line, as it has often seemed in the past. With that in mind, the total savings for the government's mandate will have to be around 1.5 billion euros annually, not a small part of which would have to be achieved in the first 12 months. Most of the rules that will ensure the necessary consolidation will be adopted in the summer law package and thus incorporated into budget rebalances. The fiscal consolidation programme will be based to a greater extent on the reduction of consumption, as the cause of the high fiscal deficit in Serbia is that the state is too generous towards everyone, not just to the best, and not to the fact that our tax rates are low, and to some extent to increase public revenues, primarily through the fight against the grey economy and the expansion of categories of excise products. In the first phase of consolidation, a 10% reduction in public sector wages will be made, and wages will continue to grow according to current fiscal rules since the end of this year. A parallel with this measure will be abolished and a solid tax that was necessary in the short term. At the end of 2016, in a healthy Serbian economy, public sector wages will reach a higher level than today. So we tell people clearly – we will heal our economy and you will have more wages in the public sector than we have today. I'm just asking all the people to remember that. Significant reduction of discretionary expenditure on official travel logs and a drastic reduction of representation and travel costs. A significant reduction in the material costs associated with the use of official vehicles, in which we are European recordmakers. A minimum number of people below the level of ministers will be entitled to an official vehicle. Many from here and in many other places, as much as in the coming days, will greet their official vehicles. You get paid, you buy a car, so you drive a car, and you don't drive state money and you don't spend government money. Reduction of state donations for sports clubs and incentives for the implementation of privatisation in the segment. A decisive fight against the gray economy. Better tax coverage of individual groups and activities and other minor changes in the tax system in the field of excise duties and other indirect taxes. The adoption of a parametric reform of the pension system. The government's goal is for Serbia's budget deficit to be at about three to four percent of GDP by the end of 2017 and we will do everything we can to achieve sustainability of public finances. If the effects of these measures are not sufficient, we will also consider applying additional measures. And that's where we came to the key point of thinking about our internal conflicts and our poisoning. All economic experts and a complete professional public particularly insist on reducing pensions, as this would be the best way to reduce our fiscal deficit. But in the difficult talks with the IMF, with Lazar Krstic and Kori Udovici, and they were all about reducing pensions right away, I made it clear that we will not cut pensions until we do everything and try everything to reduce the deficit by other means and methods. In doing so, I want you to know that Lazar Krstic and Kori Udovici and the IMF, as far as numbers are concerned, are right, and I believe in our great work and in our great power to turn it over in the next period. If we did this today, we'd have to cut pensions by 25 to 30%, how economically unfounded they were increased from 2007 to 2009. We will no longer discuss this issue, nor will we consider it until October of the month, because we will all try to make such progress as will guarantee us the unchangeable pensions. In order to strengthen the trust of the international community and creditors in the credibility of the government's intention to ensure long-term sustainability of public finances in the first 100 days, we will step up activities in the completion of the IMF arrangement and I believe that this arrangement will be concluded. One more thing about the pensioner. Why did I insist on it so much and confront my colleagues who are certainly more professional than I am in this area? And they know, and we also know that pensioners paid the most regularly with utility services and that pensioners, unlike public sector workers who spend 70% of their salaries on imported products, spend 70% of their pensions on domestic products and thus pay us back our money directly to our economy. On the other hand, we had this, even though it's very difficult to speak in such numbers and it's a bit demagogue, a social component in the head, because these pensioners are often supporting both their children and their grandchildren. That's why we made this decision, to try to make up for it with all the other measures. You will inevitably hear many alternatives to this fiscal consolidation plan. Don't think we haven't been looking for them day and night for the last six months. This is what we literally talk about in the last six months every day and every night. Literally every day. Before I move on to other goals, I will be free to make a few comments about alternative approaches that have their own advocates and to say why this is bad. The alternative to normal funding of deficits through borrowings to the domestic and foreign financial markets and through bilateral and multilateral credit arrangements is to reactivate the system of monetisation of the budget deficit or, in short, people's terms, the printing of money. This would appear to facilitate deficit financing, but a negative effect would quickly, within a few months, be seen first through the accelerated spending of foreign reserves on defence of course, and when foreign reserves reached a dangerously low level, the dinar would begin to weaken rapidly, which would be passed on to high inflation. High inflation would require adjustment of pay and pension levels to keep them at the same real level, which would further increase the deficit. Additional printing would be needed, and so on in a circle, according to the famous 1993 scenario. Another idea is to write off or reprogram debts. It's a possible scenario, but it's reserved only for countries that have declared bankruptcy. So this is a legitimate option if we want to go the way, for example. Argentina, which declared bankruptcy, later reached an agreement with its creditors on the write-off of part of the debt. This certainly is not good for us and would not save us from the measure of fiscal consolidation, but they would probably be more severe in this case. In addition, there would be a complete loss of sovereignty and independence in the management of economic policy and public finance policy. Serbia would enter a ten-year period first of recession, then stagnation. By the way, what I think is important for you all to know, like all citizens to know, in 2008, was the year that we had to take fiscal consolidation measures, the measures of consolidation of public finances, when the whole world started to take it too late. Greece set off late to take over, so Spain began to take over late, and these are countries with a higher GDP than we are. They're all much stronger economies than ours. These are countries with a bigger gross domestic product than we are. They're all much stronger economies than ours. Only we were so rude, so boastful and so reckless of our children that we did not take any measure of savings, no measure of fiscal consolidation, but fell apart with the money we do not have. That's why we came today. And that you have no illusions in the next two years. Well, everyone was selling Telecom. It was sold to Telecom. You'll get more than they asked for in the previous government. And what about the system deficit, with the system minus? When all the silver is gone, and we haven't done anything with the system deficit. Then what are we gonna do? That's why it's important to get into it as soon as possible, because even though we would now live better for two years, we would also be popular, popular and loved and easily win the election again with eight, nine or ten times as many votes as those who are against us. Then we would have had worse than the Greek script. Then they would just come and tell us – e, now cut salaries 50%, pensions 45% and 50% layoffs in the public sector. Just so you know that so far we've been led by irresponsible, reckless and reckless politics, pulsism policy and fraud policy, I don't know how else I could call it. The fight against the grey economy will definitely be one of the priorities of the new government and the finance ministry. Although in public, the effects that can be expected from the fight against the gray economy are often pre-named. The consolidation that the state needs in the next three years is about 150 billion dinars. The effects of combating the grey economy would be in an optimistic scenario that would mean bringing down the grey economy to the level of the average of the new EU member states would be 20 billion dinars per year. Some insist on aggressive privatisation of state property they say would help solve financial problems. It is true, but this would require, for example, the sale of 100% of EPS at a time when the efficiency and potential price of EPS is far below its real value. Such a solution would potentially mean only temporary recovery of state finances and would allow the budget deficit to be financed for barely a few years. What's most important here wouldn't lead to a structural deficit reduction. The expenditure on salaries and pensions would remain high compared to revenues, and after two years, the state would face the same crisis it is now in. That is why we insist on the measures of this fiscal consolidation that we have launched and that is the only possible. In addition to fiscal consolidation in the first 100 days, it will work on other equally important elements of economic policy. The consolidation of the financial sector under state control. The second important step will be to establish full control over the risks posed by banks, state-owned, which have significant effects on the budget. In the first hundred days, the government will begin to address the issue of the sustainable functioning of banks in majority state ownership through appropriate financial operations, privatisation, consolidation and full professionalisation of management. This process will end in 2014. It will start privatising the Danube Insurance by the middle of this year, as financial reports point to worse business performances of this company which is another confirmation that the state is a bad entrepreneur and that as such it should not appear in sectors where the private initiative can effectively operate. Define the way and create an appropriate legal framework to address company restructuring issues. Currently there are 157 enterprises in restructuring and their situation in most cases is economically unsustainable. These companies should also be added to "Smedereva" and "Simpo" because their business in the current circumstances cannot continue in this way over a long period of time, and it is our obligation to try and do our best to continue their business and their production. The direct and indirect cost for the state is more than 750 million a year, it's about dollars, not dinars. The priority of the state must be to protect workers in this process and to find a strategic investor for one part of the company. The whole focus of the state should focus on those companies that can employ a large number of workers and who seem to have a profitable business. They need consultants, investment bankers, because state institutions can't do that. If they could have found a partner by now, they wouldn't have waited 15 years for their privatisation. The majority of these preparatory actions will be implemented in May with the aim of the restructuring process being largely completed by the end of the year. We can't promise to find a solution like the previous governments did, but we can guarantee that we will make a team of top independent professionals who will make a realistic strategy on how to organize "The Iron" and how to start making a profit. But not all companies in restructuring are hopeless. For FAP we have found a solution and by the end of this year modern, new trucks will be re-produced in Priboj, but not produced by the state, will be produced by a private company. The FAP solution was the result of a concentrated engagement of a working group that was not political, but a working group formed by non-party experts. Independent experts from the automotive industry worked together with government organisations, transparently and without covering up information and with a common goal. Also, workers and, in part, management were constructively involved in finding a realistic solution with a view to the future. With this method, we will try to find a solution to market orientation and other companies in restructuring. Experts and companies will be integrated in this process, without the participation of politicians and parties. Focus on this action must be the first step. Workers also have to decide to show their ideas and their clear will in reform. But for companies without products and markets as well as for management without ideas, there is no hope and the state will not throw money into the well, indefinitely. That practice is over. The state when it throws money, throws money at each of us, every citizen. The adoption of a restructuring and privatisation strategy for the remaining state-owned enterprises and its implementation. I've been saying this for over an hour. That means that somewhere by what I have, I should be talking for about four hours. I'll see if you're okay with it, as long as I can handle it. The state is still the owner of some valuable companies, but so far it has proved to have been very poor in managing them and that these companies or the rules of great losses that the state had to cover, or they were getting much less profit than they would have gotten that they were doing more effectively. Almost all state-owned enterprises require large investments in the coming period in order to be competitive, why the state has neither money nor the capacity to implement transformations into action. In addition, there is a large surplus of workers in all these companies as a result of uncontrolled party employment. The only solution for these companies to survive in the long term is to be privatised and to invest serious capital and bring their "know how". I will continue to present an action plan regarding several of the largest state-owned enterprises. "Telecom" Serbia will enter the privatisation process because its value will eventually drop. The trend in European telecommunications is accelerated regional integration in order to maintain a step with the growing costs of technology and real-time declines in revenues. "Telecom" Serbia is no exception and its participation in the mobile phone market is reduced every year until fixed telephony market can no longer hold a monopoly position. Soon they will also start issuing a 4G network license, and neither Telecom, nor the state have enough resources to seriously move into the development of the new network, and further deterioration of Telecom's competitive positions is expected. Preparation of the privatisation process would begin in the first 100 days of government work. In that case, it would be realistic for privatisation to be completed during the following year if market conditions allow it. Thanks to Serbia's improved international position, I am confident that we will be able to achieve a significantly higher price for Telecom than the former government couldn't get in 2011. The EPS is the most valuable state-owned company, but the state gets very little revenue from it. Last year's profits were close to 20 billion dinars, but the company's liquidity was bad. About the business plan, the generated cash flow for this year will be negative. For Serbia, however, we find it not a good solution for us to sell a larger package of EPS actions. The best option for the EPS, we'll see if possible, would be to enter a minority partner by the end of next year, one of the world's leading firms in the energy industry. The partner would choose most EPS management and increase business efficiency. The state would receive much more profits from the EPS business and would increase the value of the company in case we decided to privatise or list on the stock market. This process if possible, so we would really end it by 2016. "Srbigas" individually makes the biggest losses for the country. In addition to the liquidity guarantee allocated to this year's budget, which is enough to cover the last heating season. It is not only or wrong to handle the "Serbiagas" faults both objective criteria and the price of the gas that the government imposes on its company the irrevocability of claims and many other things. "Srbigas" should be urgently restructured both in organisational and financial and potentially privatising some parts of the company. In parallel with the company's restructuring and resolving the company's restructuring problem, "Srbigas" should become a profitable company. Serbia's railways should be restructured by the end of this year and separated into three continents, passenger transport, goods transport and infrastructure. Transport of goods is a profitable activity for which investors would be interested and should be privatised. Travel and infrastructure would be state-owned, but with clear rules what the state subsidizes. For you to know, honourable MPs and for the citizens of Serbia to know that, we each year give 150m euros to the "Serb Railways of Serbia". So 150m euros are taken from a healthy part of the Serbian economy to give it to the "Serb Railways", which do not operate well, the speed of the freight train is on average 26km per hour, the speed of the passenger train is 41km per hour. We can't charge more money and more prices for transportation, cargo transport through our country because we can't guarantee that within 48 hours these trains will leave our country's territory. We haven't done anything in the past 30 years on Serbian railways. None of us did anything. Later, I will return to what is possible, not in the framework of the railway company Serbia, but in the framework of infrastructure projects, realistically. RTB Bor is the most valuable company in eastern Serbia, but due to the large debts and poor management of the company, it is in a difficult situation. With financial restructuring, the company would have a large number of interested investors and could achieve a high price, and even more employees in the long run. The privatisation of RTB Bor is necessary to change the regulatory framework. Meanwhile, until we see what, how and in what way, it is possible to do in the RTB Boru will need incomparably greater control, control of the work of management itself and a different true, host approach. The state of Serbia is not blessed to have the GRTB Bor but to have a generous potential for exploiting copper ore that RTB Bor uses best. Our wealth is there our workers and our miners, not management. With the real amount of the mining rent, it becomes less relevant who is only an RTB operator or another company. [[Applause]] The importance of RTB Bor will potentially grow as a result of the recent phenomenon of interest in research and exploitation of ore around Bora. Despite the almost monopoly position in organising gambling, by this year, the state lottery believed or failed to lose, which is a unique case throughout the world. On the other hand, there are interested partners who want to buy a gambling license, and the state should seriously consider changing the regulation and bringing foreign partners into this area, is it possible, believe or not, that the state in this way is including the entire $100 million. From having a million and 500 thousand euros in losses in 2012 and 2011, to making 100 million dollars, and that someone else is making all that money. Belgrade Airport, as a potential other transport infrastructure projects, will seek partners to actively and professionally lead them. We'll look, we'll start looking for long-term concession partners. We have not entered into the details of all other companies, but they are most often run, from "Serbia-Forest" to many other public enterprises. There are no big secrets here, you all know how to do balance tricks, when you don't show credits in balances for one year, you transfer them to another year, and then you say that you're not actually at a loss and how profitable you are at business. But after all, everything comes to your attention, and eventually everything comes to the attention of the citizens of Serbia. What is important is the change in the legal framework that defines the conditions of business in Serbia. By the end of July, a reform package of economic and public finance and social protection laws will be adopted, which will create assumptions for a significant improvement in Serbia's competitiveness and for attracting investment and employment. It's about the following laws: So, as you can see, what we did for the first time and what I'm proud of, this is about the right program with the most concrete measures. I'm not talking, and I didn't come to you with something formal to say three policy sentences, to vote, because we'd vote anyway, but we're putting the whole program and the whole plan out, all of what we're going to do and what we're going to make available to all of Serbia's citizens. The labour law. The aim is to improve business conditions and create opportunities to create new jobs and transfer employees from the black economy to formal, reducing the costs of risks associated with formal employment and giving incentives to employees and employers to work and work in a legal manner. This law is already being discussed and negotiated with the trade unions, but now it's time for him to consolidate and finally pass. We're going to change the severance bill, simplify the termination of the employment relationship, and specify the conditions under which it is possible to resign. We will state the legal consequences of illegal divorce, redefine ways to determine wages. In short, we will make it a modern labour law, just like in successful countries, as we ourselves strive to become. I want to say that we have had a proper and serious dialogue, Mr Ljajic has spoken to me with representatives of all the unions, we will continue these talks, we want a deal with the workers. I am convinced that they too know that this is the condition of the "sinequanon" of our progress. I hope we agree, if we do not agree, we will have to make a difficult decision to pass such a law without someone's consent, because we believe and we are confident that it is good for our people, for the citizens of Serbia. The Law on Planning and Construction – the introduction of an electronic register and authorisation system, the reduction of the number of institutions involved in the issue process, the reduction of deadlines within which institutions must declare and remove other bottlenecks, the introduction of an office for quick answers, cutting red tape and corruption characterized by the construction sector. Our goal is to shorten the time for issuing construction permits from the current 170 days to 60 days, which would be below the average for European countries. This will allow the construction sector to finally contribute to Serbia's economy and get us out of recession. It will also improve Serbia's position on the global competitiveness index. Otherwise, if you knew we didn't have a construction industry, we'd have the biggest growth in Europe last year. We had 2.4% growth in industrial production, and if we hadn't had a 30% drop in the construction industry, the construction industry had crashed us and the low construction and the high construction, we don't know where we are worse and harder. We had dramatic growth in the automotive industry, dramatic growth in agricultural production, and we had a catastrophic decline. From year to year we have a geometrical progression of the construction industry, and that is a big problem for us, and that is why we will make sure that we encourage construction entrepreneurs. The Privatisation Act, as you can see, I explain to every law what it will mean and what norms it will have. Advising the completion of privatisation, reducing discretionary decisions, predicting the role of state authorities in the privatisation process that would make the process transparent and end corruption practice in privatisations, while transforming failed privatisation of state-owned enterprises into profitable. The law would encourage economic growth, because it will allow us to find the right investor for healthy businesses, but it will also release the national budget from funding the money-losing company and do not produce anything. The law on bankruptcy, reduction of the process and the authority of one authority to represent all state creditors, to stimulate production in the PPR instead of liquidation that will strengthen general fiscal discipline and legal security in the country. This will help improve the investment environment and the competitiveness of the entire economy. The pension and disability insurance law, this has nothing to do with pension cuts, we said we weren't discussing it. This is about increasing the age limit for women from 60 to 63 years old, since it's a unique case for us. We seem to be the lazyest people in Europe, and even those jokes that we once inappropriately made on behalf of the Montenegrins, I have to tell you that with them, you need to have 63 years of life, if you're a woman to retire, and only with us is less. The introduction of early retirement actuarial pens, tightening the criteria for obtaining a well-favoured job experience. All I want you to know is one more detail, we've shown how and how much we're going to fight for the pensioners and keep in mind that 69% of the pensioners' men have gone into early retirement. Sometimes, not by my own free will, but by the different problems that the state has made for them, but I'm telling you that because of that 51% of women. Then I'm telling you what a difficult economic situation our country is, how these people have been left behind, and that we have nothing to pay out of pensions from, how and how much we struggle for it. The passing of this law would at least slow down the inflow of new pensioners and help balance the budget, and this will also reduce the number of informal employees due to the practice of early retirement, so that they continue to work and get paid on black. The law on foreign investment, the precision of state incentives and the conditions under which foreign investors are assigned in accordance with European Union rules, which would eliminate the need for discretionary decision-making in a way that has so far been the case, which will make a plan for national priorities in Serbia. The law and sublaw will precisely define criteria for investment subsidies, so that subsidies are granted only to investors whose business has a positive impact on the economy and society. This would also stop the waste of money on irresponsible projects that are only a channel for illegal collection of funds from the national budget. The Law on Public Enterprises, the definition of governance and control in public enterprises, the choice and reduction and responsibility of managers, and the definition of strategies and public enterprises and the amount of subsidies defined to achieve exclusively the social aspects of these strategies. Public enterprises will now be managed professionally from a single centre -- the Ministry of Business. It's a novelty. So we don't have any more ministries as feeds, ministries that will own their public enterprises, where they will negotiate and make combinations with company directors under their cap. Now everything and all public enterprises are put under the auspices of the Ministry of Industry for the first time, and I think it will contribute much to their more competitive business and I would say raising a lot more money for the state than it was before. I want to share an experience with you. When you gather the directors of public enterprises in one place and when you see that they actually have nothing to give to the state, and they have either a small number of them, one, two or three, no more than that, because there's always some reason, then you realize that the state has needlessly and uselessly given someone on its behalf a monopoly position to get it back to the state, and in fact it never returns to the state, but only that company lives well. These people do not understand that they are there because the state has given them that position, not because they are God-given to be there and then you have those famous resorts in Montenegro, where we lose a million and two million euros each, while the rest of the people barely end up using and using only state resources, what the state has allowed them to use. Some have threatened us with a strike because, a month ago, if I'm not mistaken, we said it was pointless to continue to hold a resort where we lose a million and a half euros a year, because they want to rest there flying. Well, you have salaries, and you have the highest salary in Serbia. Otherwise, the average salary in the company is 74,000 dinars. It's a big salary for America and Germany, not for Serbia, but we have to give them more and especially provide resorts, so that they can take a bath, and so that everyone else can see if they can reach the sea by car or not. We have the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, I will try to shorten something, the Law on Temporary Harmonisation, the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. the income of the beneficiaries of public funds, the Law on the Register of users of public funds and their employees and persons employed, the Law on Civil Service, the Insurance Act, the Mortgage Act, and as soon as the first package of reforms is approved in parliament, the Government will take active and significant steps to present these reforms to investors around the world. We will plan and organise extensive tours to present Serbia as the most attractive investment destination in the region, because through fiscal consolidation measures we will manage to leave part of the money for these "incentive packages" and these incentive packages. We will be able to make the best package in the region, be more successful than Macedonia and Bulgaria and try to pick up what has gone to other countries on our misfortune and attract a lot of new ones. Reforms will give us a lot of material to show markets and investors that they should come and invest in our country. I believe the great effects of these reforms will already be felt in 2016. Now I'm going to talk about something that mainly comes from these difficult measures as good, stimulating, or anti-recession measures of economic policy. The implementation of fiscal consolidation measures and the completion of restructuring and privatisation of state-owned enterprises can have a negative impact on the movement of business activity and employment in the short term. As a result, in order to avoid this, we will take parallel steps with these measures to adopt anti-recession economic policies, to mitigate the negative effects of painful reforms and to help return faster, non-dynamic economic growth and growth based on those sectors that are considered potential carriers of Serbia's long-term temporary growth. These are the IT sector, the car industry, the food industry, agriculture, energy and others. These measures will include the following: subsidisation of dinar credits for the liquidity of the economy in order to increase the availability of sources of funding to economic operators and thus by waving export-oriented small and medium-sized enterprises. Credit activity in Serbia records a decline. Plasma banks have been reduced by 9.3% and by about 1 billion euros, respectively. In previous years, around 1 billion euros per year have been allocated through a programme of subsidized liquidity loans per year. In this way, the state takes over part of the cost that generates a bad economic environment. I want to tell you that in preparation for the composition, or for the creation of a new cabinet, we have talked to the bankers and that we will go to at least 800 to maybe a billion and 300 million subsidized loans that will go through the business banks, which means that the state will have to cover it from 40-48 to 50m euros of the part that the banks did not take on itself. Before that, we will pay the banks the money we owe them for previous tranches of these measures in the last four, five years. What is very important is this as a special measure of anti-recession dinarisation of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. The degree of dinarisation of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, measured by the participation of dinar placements in total plasmas approved by the economy and the population at the end of 2013 was 26.8%, respectively, if we measure the degree of dinarisation by the participation of dinar deposits in the total deposits of the economy and population for the same period is 23.3%. A low level of dinarisation has had a negative impact on the establishment of an adequate macroeconomic environment, stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia and the efficiency of monetary policy. More intensive use of domestic currency in the national economy is the basis for a more efficient monetary policy, resulting in lower risks to the country's financial stability due to reduced exposure to the economy to exchange rate changes. The fiscal consolidation and the increase in dinarisation create conditions for lower and more stable NBS reference rates and for the fall of all other interest rates on dinar loans in our system, with a view to facilitating credit for the economy and the population to reduce the exposure of the national economy, the risk of exchange rate change and fostering economic growth and employment. A significant representation of domestic currency in Serbia's financial system and the adequate harmonisation of the currency structure, income and expenditure of the non-banking sector would improve the country's financial stability, reduce the risks of exchange rate change in the most vulnerable sectors of the economy and improve the efficiency of monetary policy. In order to improve the process of dinarisation, the Serbian government and the National Bank have created a memorandum on a strategy for dinarisation of Serbia's financial system. The memorandum defines the objectives, measures and activities to be taken to strengthen trust in the domestic currency and its use in the monetary system. The next measure of time-limited tax relief in the employment of new workers, i.e. the transfer of workers from the gray zone to legal flows. What will be our priority in government's work is hiring people in the private sector. When I talk about employment, I always talk about private sector employment. The state will bear part of the cost of tax and contribution for workers in newly established companies to existing enterprises for undeclared workers until then. Ten new employees would be paid taxes and contributions for the first three, while the state would make up for this cost for the next seven workers. These measures would pay particular attention to the most vulnerable groups of the population, young people at the very beginning of their careers, as well as people who are at the end of their careers. So, this is one of the extraordinary incentive measures and we expect a great response from all the businesses that we have already surveyed, and we will also make additional incentive measures for employment and a smaller number of people, to respect the concerns of businessmen who have said that we can ask them for one new employee and explain how difficult the state is because each formalised means a lot to our country. An increase in that base of 100 or 150 thousand new employees would mean the de factopas of our economy, the salvation of our economy in the coming period. By launching large projects and cheap housing, the state provides land and infrastructure, which allows the cost of dwellings to be such that they are accessible to the average family, again due to the construction sector and the construction industry, which we talked about, which will generate a massive demand for these apartments, while at the same time one of the sectors most affected by the crisis, construction, but not by the "Stepa Stepanovic" model, where the price of apartments has essentially become marketable. The adoption of a new mechanism for the allocation of investment and employment subsidies, which will be time-limited and set up to boost the inflow of investments in undeveloped areas and areas that will be particularly affected by the completion of the restructuring of state and social enterprises. In addition to the fiscal consolidation measure, around 200m euros of additional money will be provided in 2015 and 2016. Reform programme by the end of 2014. The measures described to be adopted and implemented in the first 100 days of government work will be only the first but crucial step towards a successful reform of the economic system. Immediately after the first wave of reforms, which will be implemented by the end of July, it will begin with the realisation of reforms that require a little more time to be prepared and which should be completed by the end of the year. It is about five major reforms, an aggressive fight against the gray economy, the achievement of the goal of bringing the grey economy down to the level of orderly EU countries is a long-standing process and depends primarily on building a whole series of institutions and their capacity to play their role in an efficient way. The institutional construction process lasts for an average of three to four years, depending on the complexity of the institution and the process must run independently of the action plan to fight the gray economy. What can be done in a short time is to implement a series of actions in the fight against the gray economy, or organised crime, which can significantly reduce this phenomenon in certain areas that are more fiscally betrayed and at the same time the most obvious example of the state's inability to deal with this problem. At the same time, an institutional and organisational framework will be created for the systematic repression of the grey economy, primarily through the change of tax regulations and a fundamental reform of the tax administration. The specific actions by the end of the year include an analysis and prioritisation of emerging forms of grey economy, which will be the subject of action in order to obtain the greatest effect within the shortest time, to amend regulations of legal and sublegal acts, i.e. internal procedures and regulations that have so far made it impossible or made it difficult to combat these types of tax evasion, for example, to create specific procedures for the control of certain risk industries and to strengthen criminal policy, which in certain domains was very mild and in some way to speed up the grey economy, to reorganise internal resources and to mobilise the excess administrative staff, so as to carry out a greater number of controls, therefore, and part of people in the public sector, which we talked about the necessity of reduction, will also have an opportunity in the second part of the public sector, by schooling, to find their new job, to carry out internal records, and to identify the risks of civilised data, to the bottom, to the bottom management of the bottom, to the bottom-up, to the bottom-up of the areas, to the bottom-up of the areas, to the areas, to the bottom-up of the bottom-up of the security of the security, and control of the areas. In addition, by the end of the year a new inspection control law will be adopted, which will ensure the unification of the work of market inspection, labour inspection, municipal inspection, as well as their better coordination with the work of the tax administration. Addressing the problem of non-refundable claims and the liquidity of the economy, Serbia's share of problematic loans reached 22% with the third quarter of 2013, with the economy at 28% and the population at 9%. This is the highest percentage of problematic loans in the region, and it's one of those things we talked about, about our tycoons, political ties, about how the loans were taken and how they were spent, instead of investment in production, where profits will be made, it's often invested in private yachts, the most expensive cars, counting on these loans never to be paid back, and that money will be spent for personal purposes. A high level of problematic credits, credit activity in Serbia seems to be decreasing in continuity for over a year. Bank balances burdened with problematic loans make the credit price higher and the willingness to borrow and take risks less. It is clear that this has a negative impact on economic growth, since in the absence of lending there are significantly limited resources available for financing investments. Not getting too far into the causes of this problem that are certainly different from the economic crisis in objective market circumstances, and to the criminal actions that we were talking about, the fact is that most domestic companies have found themselves in trouble and that their loans have just become problematic. Because of this problem, which is a systemic character, the solution concept should also be systemic. The concept would mean setting up a special investment fund company to buy out problematic bank loans. The company would have professional management, specialized in restructuring companies in financial difficulties, to which these loans were granted. The concept would be completely fair and transparent and would offer participation to all banks on the market. The capital for this company would be provided by participating banks and international financial institutions, and the state would have to work for its part to improve bankruptcy, debt restructuring and asset assessment. Through this process, bank balances would be cleared, which would then be ready to credit the economy again. At the same time, professional management that would manage troubled companies would be focused on saving these companies and putting them on their feet. This has a double positive effect for the entire economy. At the same time, other measures will be implemented which are necessary to address the burning problem of liquidity and insolvency of the economy, to speed up the bankruptcy process through the effective implementation of the new Bank Act, the introduction of subsidized liquidity loans to businesses, which I was talking about, the reconciliation of all commitments made by the state towards private creditors and suppliers. The target state of public administration with a specific focus on health, education, science, state administration and local self-government, including the target number of employees, has been defined. The public sector currently employs 780,000 people, of which 36,000 in the state administration, at 163,000, in education 161,000, in health care 135,000. This number of public sector employees is unsustainably high. It is much higher than all countries in the environment, especially compared to EU countries. Optimisation of the scope of the public sector will be conducted through an analysis of the existing situation and the number of employees in all institutions, taking into account the measurement of the impact of employees, with the aim of identifying surpluses or deficits, an analysis of job descriptions in all institutions, along with their redesignation, a functional analysis of all institutions with the aim of identifying the justification of their existence and overlapping activities, a plan for optimisation of each of the sectors. The process of analysis should continue until November 2014, when a decision on dynamics and implementation would be made in each sector. The next measure is to introduce fair paying classes and define the dynamics of increasing earnings and reducing the number of employees through trade negotiations with trade unions. Also, in this sense, I will only say two sentences on judicial reform, because it is one of the essential pillars for normal functioning of the economy, the state administration and creating a safe investment environment. The reform aims to reduce the number of pending cases, speed up court proceedings and allow for greater predictability of the judicial system, which means equating judgments and interpretations within the judicial system. All of this should result in the return of citizens' trust and economics in the judicial system. In this regard, by the end of the year, the legal framework for a new and more efficient judicial system will be fully surrounded. The third part, the structural reform programme from 2015 to 2017, next year will be crucial to raising state institutions and the main functions that the state performs to its feet. The country's long-term economic perspective depends on success in this regard. According to all the research, our health care costs the state similar to other countries in the region, but the quality of services is much worse. The results of our education are worse than in most European countries, and citizens are not satisfied with the services of state and local administration. Structural reforms in each area must have a clear goal that they want to achieve, which is a better public sector service, which the state provides for taxes that citizens and businesses pay. Accordingly, systematic reforms will be implemented between 2015 and 2017 in four segments of the public sector, representing the most significant public service providers, health, education, state administration and local self-government. Serbia was the 101st place in the global competition index of the World Economic Forum for 2013-2014. We are the last of the countries in our region. The aim of the reform package is to increase the competitiveness of our economy, create attractiveness for investors and put additional pressure on corruption practice. Increasing competitiveness will also help to reduce consumer prices, and that will be felt by every family in our country. Our government's goal next year is to make the biggest progress on the index among all countries in the world and to be ranked among the first Southeast European countries by 2018. Efficient implementation of priority investment and infrastructure projects, in the area of transport and infrastructure projects and construction, I expect the biggest shifts in the coming period. Our biggest problem is our financial indiscipline, irresponsibility and indemnity, and it is no wonder that people in Serbia find impossible to build highways or several bridges or railway tracks, regardless of the huge money we have allocated in the previous period for these needs. The bottom line of our problem is that we can no longer build anything by taking loans, all because of the level of public debt and all because of the three decisions made between 2007 and 2009. What we are going to insist on and expect great and good news, I want to say to you, these are concession agreements and I assure the citizens that, and you know that I would say such a difficult thing, especially given the practice so far, through concession agreements within four years, we will complete the full highway of Belgrade-Bolare in the distance of 270km. For those who do not know where Bolara is, it is about the Ibarska masteral, as we popularly call it, i.e. the Belgrade-Montenegro highway. I think that would be an unequivocally great success and a huge result for us. I'll read you how things are right now and what it's like to be able to do, and for God's sake and some things we won't be able to do, because we won't be able to get through those loans just because of the level of public debt. I told Belgrade and the South Adriatic in the length of 763, Belgrade-Bolare 270km, I am convinced that through concession contracts within four years we will build it completely, not finish the papers, but citizens can know that in four years they will be able to go to Montenegro to the sea, to the mountain, wherever they want or go to any place in Serbia on that road, that they will be able to take the highway. We'll have a rehabilitation and road safety project. That's where we do 1,500 state roads. The European Investment Bank, EBRD, World Bank and Serbia are co-financed jointly with a total value of 370m euros. Corridor 10 – part E75, that is 74.2 kilometers, works are on all the lots in progress, except for the tour around Dimitrovgrad, which is expected to end the tender every day. After the Alpina bankruptcy, the phase completion of the work was planned and people in Serbia should know that by the end of 2016, the road will finally be completed. Railway infrastructure Novi Sad-Subotica-border Hungary, an idea project is being carried out with IPA funds worth 3.95m euros and the implementation of works is planned through the China mechanism... , as part of the Belgrade-Budapest joint project, and there we are coming, not easy negotiations with our Chinese partners, as well as how to finance it, because we are in trouble again if we have to go to credit financing due to the level of public debt. Remont six shares on Corridor 10 is 112 kilometers. The project will be financed from the Russian loan. The value of the works is 68m euros. The papers start in two months. He signed an annex two in March this year. Construction of the second Belgrade-Pancevo track, the project is financed from Russian credit. The value of the works is 69m euros and the work has begun. The excavation of stations, Belgrade-centre, the project is financed from Kuwait's loan. The completion of the colossal facilities, the value of the works, is 27m euros. The tender is over and the works start in two months. Modernisation of the Belgrade-Vrbnica railway, i.e. towards Bar, the project will be financed from the Russian loan, with an indicative value of 200m euros. The beginning of the work will be only in the second half of 2015. I won't go into details. If you are interested, I can answer your questions after getting diesel motor vehicles, modernising the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway, bypasses around Belgrade, bypasses around Nis, Nis-Brestovac shares and a very important issue of building a 19m-euro intermodal terminal in Batajnica. A 15.5m-euro donation from the European Commission is expected, the expropriation is 3.5m euros. All necessary project documentation is ready. About the new projects, except for what I was talking about, I said that we would dramatically speed up and finally finish. You'll have a new practice. All Serbian citizens will be able to see on the roads how much it cost them. We'll take and make billboards, where everyone, please, will be able to keep young people in line, so they don't write anything, you'll have a price for each leg, for every part of the trip, that every citizen knows how much money he's set aside for that trip and deadlines when that part of the trip and when the stock is done. It will be a new practice in the Serbian government, as some developed countries do. What is also a major infrastructure project, Belgrade on the water, there will be a joint city of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia to form a company. I have to agree here with the representatives of the former regime or the opposition, however you will, who have expressed their misunderstandings and fear that it is possible to make such a difference. It's possible, but only if we're responsible. If we are responsible for our unhappiness, corruption, or other wrong and purposely bad deeds. I said this because things like this have already happened and we've managed to end it. I want to inform the citizens of Serbia, not only the citizens of Belgrade, that one of the most beautiful buildings, the eagle, see what it looks like today, to come on May 31st, to look at it. Two and a half million euros costs reconstruction. We didn't even give a penny. The Arabs gave all the money. They will do it as a showroom as Belgrade should look on water. You wouldn't believe it, some of our people, so the Arabs give money, they build our building with their money, and we're asking them for another 10%, I guess, because they're building our building in our country with their money. We've already interrupted this in an attempt, and certain persons have been removed, removed, and we'll determine whether they have criminal and legal responsibilities. Anyway, I expect this project to raise industry. Imagine you're looking for 10% because someone's making you his money, not your money, is real. For all kinds of cases, I've listened to and seen police arrests in various cities of ours looking for 10% for what they give some kind of license or I don't know what. This is a unique case in the world, that they're building for us, on our territory, on their money, but that's not enough for us, but to get them another 10%. It's only in Serbia. We broke it off and I hope we have enough serious and responsible people. It has nothing to do with parties. It has to do with our manners, to live in two days, to take in everything that comes to mind, not to bother and make it easy to earn, and not to worry about what it's going to look like. Telecommunications and tourism. In the area of telecommunications, information society, the most important task is the completion of the digitalisation of television signal, which will be completed by 17 June 2015, the European Union set the deadline. The Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications will continue activities to develop a network of widely-explained and fast internets, so that it can also be available in the weakest populated parts of our country. The focus will continue to be on improving electronic business through the creation of an appropriate legal framework and an administrative system necessary for the development of these areas. Out of particular importance for the development of electronic business and the opening of options for receiving money from abroad through the web service Pay Pal, which came to the Serbian market during 2013, developed a payment and sending money via the Internet. Given the high potential of developing the IT sector, export opportunities in this area, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications will work to improve the conditions for the development of the IT sector through further market liberalisation, encouraging domestic producers and creating conditions for new foreign investment. In support of this sector, it also says that IT industry is one of four business branches in Serbia with the highest growth prospects and export potentials. The main goal of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism, is to improve the quality of Serbia's tourism offer, to create an increase in the total foreign exchange inflow from the current 800m euros to 1.3 billion euros annually. You know that the multiplier effect in tourism is the biggest and that is why every dinar we invest in tourism is almost fivefold back to us. That's why Belgrade will be important to us on the water, as well as to all other infrastructure projects we've been talking about. The maximum work to improve the quality of the tourist offer can be expected to increase the total number of tourists visiting Serbia annually from 2.3 to 3 million annually in the coming period, as achieved in 2013. Our goal is to make it five million in 2018. In this case, an increase in the number of direct employees in tourism is expected, from the current 70,000 to 100,000 workers. With this in line and with this, the ministry will work to ensure quality conditions for investment investments in the tourism sector, especially through the development of a public-private partnership model, and all the objectives mentioned will be an integral part of the new strategy for development of Serbia's tourism that will be developed by the end of this year. The exit to new markets and the increase in Serbian goods exports – in order to further increase exports, and in 2012 we had coverage of imports with 59%, today we have 72.5% and this is the best part and the most advanced part, the thing we can most praise. We will seek new markets for the placement of Serbian goods through the signing of a free trade agreement with countries with which Serbia has so far not had such concluded agreements. It was observed that the biggest growth in exports was achieved precisely in those countries with which free trade agreements have been concluded. In this sense, the greatest potential for this type of demand for new markets exists in the countries of the Middle East, Africa and Asia. One of the key objectives in the area of foreign trade is joining the World Trade Organisation, which is one of the preconditions for Serbia's EU membership. The development of energy – the task of this portfolio is to ensure Serbia's energy stability and security, i.e. sufficient amounts of energy and energy on sustainable prices, with a clear legislative framework and a favourable investment environment. The definition of investment priorities will also determine the rate of energy development, mining, and thus the rate of future economic growth in Serbia. In the area of legislative procedure which is the basis of business transparency and a good investment environment, new laws and sublegal acts on energy, the law on biological research and mining, the law on the electricity market, the law on the gas market, the law on the heat market will be brought into line with EU regulations and standards, as well as the sublaw of the Law on Effective Use of Energy, the Law on Stock Reserves in the part of the existence of mandatory reserves of oil, oil derivatives and gas in Serbia and sublegal acts aimed at further speeding up and exploiting renewable energy sources, in particular biomass. In the area of mining, serious changes will be made to existing acts and cuts of regulations that slow down and choke the development of mining. Let me also tell you ambassadors, since I am absolutely certain that you will come to my office less and spend both your time and my time insisting on better regulations in the mining sector. A change in the tariff system will be made and chapter 15 – energy will be opened, in negotiations with the EU. Serbia's strategic goal is to raise energy security by using available resources and conventional, non-renewable and renewable energy sources. One of the energy priorities will be renewable energy sources for which legislative and economic conditions have been created over the past two years to invest in them. Apart from the use of hydroenergy, wind, geothermal and suns, it will be particularly helpful to exploit the potential of biomass, which participates with 60% in the overall potential of renewable energy sources. Serbian energy is characterised by high external energy dependence, an unfavourable structure of domestic conventional sources, a low level of investment in research into energy and mining potentials, non-economic energy prices and energy price and energy prices, but also a low degree of gas and heat collection. The EPS demand for spent electricity is 1.1 billion euros and Serbia's spent gas of 600m euros. The toplana in Serbia is 57 and has 200m euros. The government's priorities in Serbia's energy policy will be raising energy security and security, as well as raising awareness among decision-makers that state energy security is an absolute priority. The potential for investment in energy by 2020 is around 8.5 billion euros, i.e. for the South Stream pipeline, 1.9 billion euros are planned. Of these, about 2,000 megawatts in modern thermal and natural gas power plants with a cogeneration principle, about 1400 megawatts in large hydro capacity including reversible and 1092 megawatts, worth about two billion euros and renewable energy sources. Each investment decision will be carefully analysed in line with the interests of investors and the Republic of Serbia, and in line with fiscal opportunities. You know that whatever investment it is that domestic and foreign investors come to you with the idea of PPAi already hurts my head when I hear PPA, that's that power perchase agreement. They ask you, that we will pay some money, but that the Government guarantees that it will pay us that much and so much electricity. He's not going to market, he's going to have to guarantee you two or three times the price of electricity. We'll see that we do it to the best possible extent only where we're forced, by lack of own resources and our own money to finance the most important investment facilities. The opening and development of the internal and regional market is a process already launched, which should enable the setting and functioning of energy on market basis and its better regional positioning. At this point, up to 40% of the market is open, which is 4,000 high and medium voltage customers. This is a safe way to increase the competitiveness of the Serbian economy, but also to ensure security in supplying the domestic market and reduce losses in distribution networks. For Serbia, membership in the energy community and the EU accession process are of particular importance. The energy strategy of the energy community has just been created on Serbia's initiative and is a link with EU energy policy. We are clearly committed not only to the process of European integration, but also to the development of co-operation with all countries that are recognised as leaders on the international stage. Agricultural development – an increase in agricultural production by 30%. The main tasks of the Minister for Agriculture will be the implementation of irrigation projects, the pooling of land properties in a way that will allow for the planning of agriculture, the change in the way of financing agriculture in a way that will encourage more productivity, vertical integration to the end of the processing chains. Although the agriculture sector is extremely important for the Serbian economy, it is characterized by the lie and non-competitive production. I don't know if people in Serbia know that, because we listen all the time, I'd say different stories. The reason for this is economic globalisation, the lack of institutions, a large number of small holdings, high dependence on climate change, technical and technological backlog of the entire sector, the insecure market for the agricultural sector, as well as the obligations imposed in Serbia's EU and World Trade Organisation accession process. The market chain and logistics support to the sector is characterised by the lack or low efficiency of the institution and the logistics support system, as well as the insufficient use of capacity and resources availability. According to the latest statistics, the rural population accounts for 40.6% of the total population, and every fifth village population is over 65 years old. Compared to the 2002 census, the number of rural populations fell by 10.9%. The share of agriculture in total employment is 21% of gross social value is 10.4% and the share of agricultural food products in total exports is 22%. One of the particularly important challenges of the Serbian government in rural development policy will be to ensure the economic sustainability of small family owners, as they account for about 77% of registered agricultural holdings and their preparation for competition with EU producers, as well as the remaining of young and rural women. Following the current integration processes, the new agriculture strategy gives clear guidance to future reforms of the agricultural sector, with a precise definition of priority areas, actions on revitalisation and the activation of rural development potentials. The public debate process has been completed and the adoption of Serbia's agriculture strategy will follow immediately after the government's formation. This document also creates a framework for future activities in terms of the development of national programmes for agriculture and rural development, which should contain concrete and detailed measures to achieve the strategy of the objectives set out. The process of drawing up national programmes followed by appropriate sectoral analyses was launched at the beginning of the year and provides for concrete measures for the implementation of the following strategic objectives: growth of production and stability of producer income, growth of competitiveness, adaptation of domestic and foreign market requirements and technical and technological improvement of the sector, sustainable resource management and environmental protection, improvement of quality of life in rural areas and poverty reduction, effective management of public policies and improvement of the institutional framework for rural development and rural development. In the next period, we are expected to have further work activities to establish accreditation and the necessary structures for the use of EU pre-accession funds for rural development of the IPARD, which would meet the conditions for the withdrawal of projected access funds for Serbia from 32m to 38m euros per year. Serbia's government will continue to work intensively to further improve the consumer health protection system, prevent animal and plant diseases, protect animal health and animal welfare and ensure sufficient quantities of quality and health-real food for both domestic and foreign market requirements. Special support to inspection bodies will be provided through the establishment of a laboratory network capable of monitoring and supporting Serbia's agricultural food sector. The new agricultural policy measures will provide specific support for young agricultural producers, rural women, agricultural cooperatives, farmers' associations, as well as a higher amount of funding for primary production and processing of agricultural products. In the shortest time, we will pass a law on pre-financing that will allow farmers an acceptable source of financing for the harvest by giving future generations as a guarantee of payment, not a mortgage. We will continue to develop a system of public storage that has proved to be a very quality way of providing favourable financial resources for farmers and adequate storage and qualitative classification of goods according to world standards. Market price support measures will be aimed at stabilising prices at a time of market disturbance. In such conditions, different intervention measures will be introduced to encourage additional demand and regulation of the offer. The general orientation will be to gradually build a security network system to stabilise the market according to EU mechanisms and principles. The adoption and adaptation of a set of laws will regulate transport, lease and land heritage, as well as the obligation to maintain land in respect of the principles of good agricultural practice. A special accent will be given to protect agricultural land in terms of limiting the creation of the most qualitative agricultural land in the land for other purposes. Tax policy and budget incentives will support the increase and consolidation of land and the establishment of an active land market. Credit investment support will continue and further strengthen the financing of projects for melioration and improvement of land infrastructure. General support measures for agriculture provide for both the preparation and use of modern advisory tools, the improvement of advisory modules, innovative approach to education and training of agricultural producers, thus improving the system of knowledge creation and transfer. With respect to all professional and scientific indicators and recommendations and we have defined new real, but also realistic development guidelines that will rightly contribute to making Serbian agriculture a dynamic sector based on knowledge and a healthy environment, and rural environments preserved for proud generations to come. Reforms in the sphere of education and science. Although we have a seemingly sea of educational institutions, we cannot even say that we are a society of knowledge. One Chinese proverb says: “If you plan a year in advance, plant rice. You plan 10 years in advance, plant a tree. If you plan a century in advance, raise and educate people. “ This government will try to reform the education system. Do you know that every third student in Serbia is functionally illiterate? Our education will be our first priority. Education is the foundation from which we start to build our joint house, our new Serbia, a better Serbia, a Serbia that knows. Our children learn from books aged 20 and 20 years in the era of new technological innovations, where one information only takes 28 seconds to penetrate the world. What kind of paradox is that? Is there a better example of how much our society is lagging behind? Our children learn from out-of-date teaching tools, and school programs are such that they are buried with a bunch of irrelevant information. There is no clear information that will allow general knowledge and education necessary for every young man to continue his life-determination. Our children leave our schools unprepared for the world and the temptations that await them, without enough knowledge to deal independently with the work they have been trained for. Teachers have to educate them, but not after school, not in private classes. After school, children need to play sports. I hear parents pay for private lessons more and more. An even more massive phenomenon is the giving of grades. That's how we train them to do something easy tomorrow, it's just important that they have a relationship and they pay, and what they don't know, it doesn't matter. It's not a favor done to them, it's irreparable damage. The old Chinese proverb says: “Give a man a fish and you will feed him in one day. Teach him how to fish and you will feed him for life." We need to teach our children first of all to think straight. When they learned that, they learned the most important lesson. The educational system that aims to provide students or students with all the necessary knowledge for their future life call is a thing of the past. The first reason for this is the dynamics of modern life, which virtually no longer allows any call to be lifelike. Please listen to this sentence one more time, and so some of our people, many of our workers, don't understand what happened. The world has changed. Everything has changed around us. Another reason is that today’s knowledge in itself is no longer sufficient. For the first time in human history, knowledge is no longer a guarantee of success in business. The competition makes yesterday's knowledge is no longer enough for tomorrow's work. The most important competence of all successful people today is the ability to learn new things. The only school in which time and resources are to be invested today is a school that will teach us how to learn. When I spoke to the legendary Shiman Peres a few weeks ago, he told me and gave me a new idea that I'm sure the Israelis would apply, but so would many in the world. He said – we had time to study six hours in schools, and eight-hour stay at factories or at work. The future will be for workers six hours of work, two hours of learning, and for students four hours of learning and two hours of work. It would be good for us to understand that much before some in the world can keep up with those who are the most successful. The largest number of professions that people today have had only two decades ago had no names. What can be life-long today is not an occupation, but just learning. Lifelong learning is the necessity of the time in which we live. There are fewer jobs for which workers of necessary knowledge and skills are acquired during regular schooling. Continual learning and professional training is the way of life we need to get used to. The education system should encourage all kinds of lifelong learning. The responsibility for quality education is on all of us, and above all, on those who are educated. No one can expect education to be a one-way street without intersections, where there is no need to make and question any decisions. Students who become aware that they themselves are the most responsible for their own education will make it easier to make their own way. There are many ways to gain knowledge. This variety of approaches should be cultivated. It is necessary to develop a system of external checks that, through learning results, would be necessary to improve school practice. They'll count the press how many glasses of water I've had. That'll be their main story. Schools need more autonomy in their work. Teachers, too. Such autonomy is necessarily more responsible for the results achieved. School directors who are afraid of accidentally doing something that the Ministry has not explicitly approved do not contribute to the development of education. They're just keeping the status quo that we've never needed less. Any positive shift in school practice should highlight and encourage other schools to find their recognizable work model. A massive and rigid education system does not provide an opportunity for everyone to find himself, show their interest and achieve their talents. None of us are wise enough to prescribe how everyone has to learn. We're not all the same. That's exactly what humanity is about. The Ministry of Education and Science must be free of unnecessary ingenuity. There's no need for the Ministry of Education to be involved in student trips, appointments of school boards, verification of textbooks. The Ministry of Education and Science should deal with developing the system and raising the quality of work, legislation, education economy and creating a network of users with the whole world. Education is much more than education. There's only one small part of education going on in school. The actors of this system aren't just students and teachers, it's all of us. We all need to create a culture that appreciates effort and responsibility. Learning must not be just a means of getting grades and diplomas, but an inexorable part of the life of intelligent beings. Learning only for the assessment or passing of the exam is a bad practice that has even worse consequences and a trend in giving grades and a trend in giving exams without real exits must be stopped. Today we have several times more wolves than two and three decades ago. The fact that almost 15% of the students have all fives doesn't do anybody any good. Remember your time, how few of us had all fives and how few of those who had an average of over nine. I'm not sure there'd be much on either side. If the reason for such assessments is a weak criterion, this should be determined by using external tools to verify knowledge and thus make the criterion more meaningful. If the reason for unreasonablely high assessments is external pressure, then teachers should be resolutely protected because they are the most measured to assess knowledge and to give grades. In the area of higher education, there is a series of improvements to be implemented. The government will particularly deal with the quality of higher education institutions, their accreditation and the creation of conditions to facilitate the return of our experts from abroad. In this way, conditions will be created for healthy competition between schools, colleges and teachers who work there. One of the government's priorities will be science and technological development. In the past decade, due to an increase in the number of researchers who have not been followed by a proportional increase in budgets, we have come to the situation that a large part of the science separation is practically going to pay off employees' earnings. The level of funding of research itself has fallen below the level necessary for this activity to be maintained, and the years-long neglect of the problem in this portfolio has led to organised protests by scientific workers. In addition to the planned increase in investment in science, the government will establish a new model of funding science with respect to the practice of other developed countries in the world, with a number of measures, as well as amendments and additions to the Law on Scientific and Research Action. The new funding model implies the establishment of a fund that will, on the basis of expertise, create a strategy for scientific and technological development in the long term, assess scientific projects and call competitions for funding research work. In addition to the highly important development sector, regulation of these laws will be given priority in order to ensure continuity in funding scientific and research projects, whose current cycle ends at the end of 2015. Since there is concern that the transition to a new funding model could jeopardise some areas of science that are of general importance to culture and society, but are currently not challenging in technological development, the government will pay particular attention to protecting existing research in humanistic and social sciences. Integrated in the efforts of the new government and leading scientists and experts, we could not only save science and restore the importance of education, but also recognize, encourage and exploit one of the basic and multiple confirmed potentials that this country has. Ensuring conditions that would encourage researchers to stay in the country, increased investment in science, as well as the rope between science and economy, would provide a basis for faster economic development, as well as general cultural and social revitalisation. Also, I would place a special accent on the position of young people in Serbia, which is far from satisfying. Although basic strategic documents in the field of youth policy have been adopted, and above all, the Youth Act has been quite done to implement them, data show that young people today face many challenges, of which unemployment is certainly the biggest problem. Serbia also faces a decline in the number of young people in the general population and the trend of leaving the country's most talented. That is why it is necessary to invest in young people, create conditions for them to work properly, live outside the parent home, and start a family. We will work on a further strategic framework in this area, but also on concrete solutions for young people. Throughout the broad consultation process and the participation of all relevant actors, this year a national strategy will be developed at the youth level of 2015-2025, with an action plan for its implementation, and in line with EU youth policy initiatives and frameworks at EU level to achieve the best possible results, with full respect and experience of EU initiatives in youth policy. When drawing up this strategic document, the emphasis will be placed on reducing unemployment, encouraging entrepreneurship and self-employment, with appropriate relief and financial support for beginners. Reduce the social exclusion of young people, prevent early school leaving, increase awareness of the importance of informal education, improve the quality of career, lead and counselling, promote youth work, promote healthy and safe lifestyles and increase active participation of young people in social life. The Youth Fund will continue to support the most talented young people, in order to stop young people from working abroad and allow them to develop professionally in their country. State administration reform and local self-government reform. In recent years, we have witnessed large fluctuations in the mass of public administration employees. The focus will no longer be on changing civil servants, but on strengthening their capacities and raising their responsibilities in applying the rules and implementing the established procedures. We will establish compulsory education and training of civil servants at all levels. We will redefine the employment and promotion criteria in the state administration. We will invest funds in training the personnel needed by our state administration, with the construction of market information systems, control of standards and quality. The world must be more quality and professional than it's ever been. The state administration must become a support, not an obstacle to investors and privates. Realisation of this objective will significantly contribute to the aggressive introduction of the electronic administration, as well as the introduction of a general principle of silence of the administration, means approval. Already today, the Ministry Act establishes a Republic Secretariat for Public Policy, with the necessary powers to ensure the design and mutual coherence of public policies and their compliance with the country's medium-term financial opportunities. The necessary legislative changes will be adopted, in particular the amendment of the State Administration Act, which will prescribe the way public policies are adopted, so that they are realistic, harmonised and enforceable. The most important of them will precede the adoption of concepts on the objectives and ways in which they are achieved. Only then will solutions be developed, coordinated, and eventually adopted. We will allow businesses, civil society and other stakeholders to participate in all stages of legal acts from the concept of law to the proposal, including the preparation of sublegal acts. There are surplus employees in all local self-governments, and the largest number of local self-government employees has been employed on the political line. Not only are people employed in municipal authorities, but they are employed in such a way, in public and other local enterprises not covered by the rules on the maximum number of employees. The aim is to define, through the reform of local self-government, the maximum number of employees who are directly or indirectly financed from the municipal budget, based on the number of inhabitants and the development of municipalities. The reform of local self-government would also include the obligation to introduce electronic administrations and maximum deadlines for issuing all necessary certificates and documents in the jurisdiction of local authorities. The reform of funding for local self-government will, on the other hand, increase the fiscal responsibility of local authorities, by relying less on republican transfers and better charging of local taxes. Thanks to the traditional involvement of Serbian citizens in their community, the great help of the international community, local self-government today is far more capable of achieving civil self-government, providing public services, supporting investment, development than it was ten years ago. However, there is still much work to be done to strengthen local self-government. On the one hand, in accordance with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, jurisdiction must be determined so that citizens in self-government decide what they know best, what their needs are, who needs protection, who needs more property tax cut. In accordance with the principles of sound management, the funds must comply with the competences. On the other hand, local self-government must take greater responsibility for the quality of its decisions and developments that arise from them. Instead, there are many who have had non-domestic behaviors. I'm going to set an example of a municipality, and I'm not going to tell you what a municipality is, because it doesn't matter who's in power. The municipality has 7,000 inhabitants, with 5.5m euros. She's completely bankrupt. No one can get her out alive. This was done by some previous government, and this today's government, when the municipality is in bankruptcy, when the municipality is in a situation where they can't pay anything, instead of coming and looking for a solution along with the Serbian government, come to ask if there's some kind of football or basketball club, and the municipality and everything that citizens have to do, to be done, can wait another year and not provide them with any favors. That tells you enough how serious we are and how we function. Health reform. Another system that has long been matured for difficult reforms, in which it may be the most difficult to implement because of a lack of financial resources, is our health system. Serbia was recently ranked as the last in Europe's category. The government aims to move Serbia from the post over the next four years. We have good doctors and very good doctors, and probably enough hospitals, but the organization of the system is outdated, harmful and does not satisfy the necessary services in the modern economy of the 21st century. The reaction of our health system is inadequate. People wait for months before the doctor can take them. Regular people in our country, who have no ties or money, are being neglected and are not able to go through them. Therefore, our first priority in the health system would be to establish an emergency service and primary healthcare services for everyday needs, which is, in fact, not available today or in a good way. This would not be done by prescribing more money in an unhealthy system, but by reorganising the system. We will suspend two years of training for clinical doctors, prespecies and allow them to start the specialization immediately. That way more doctors could provide their services to the community. Like I said, we have good doctors in the country. In fact, people come from Canada, Britain and other countries here for treatment. With adequate planning, we can make Serbia the best destination for health tourism, especially when it comes to dentistry and aesthetic surgery. This is a fast-growing market around the world, a market that can bring a lot of revenue to our doctors, our hospitals and our country. We're going to form a special team that would be in charge of turning this vision into reality. The government will also consider breaking up with a harmful habit of sending doctors out of the country to specialise. Instead, we will work together with other governments in the EU and other regions to bring professional doctors to Serbia and organise seminars and treat patients. We will launch a project called "Active Health", which will be co-ordinated through Serbia's municipalities. Instead of waiting for potential patients to come to us, we will go to potential patients on our feet, find them, and thus prevent additional costs, and also save lives. It's always better to stop than to heal. In addition, the government will aim to build children's clinics and facilities that are currently crowded. We will expand the children's clinic in Belgrade and also the oncology clinic. We will form a special private public fund that will serve, and now you will understand why we had to cut other things, which will serve to treat children in areas where the Health Insurance Fund does not provide funding, as well as emergency cases. When it comes to parenting and nationality, I will insist that through social giving, the material position of parents is improved, to be removed through simple procedures for the exercise of this right. Health reform will aim to increase the availability of quality of public health care. A period waiting for specialist examinations must be halved over the next three years. On the other hand, the efficiency of existing medical resources must be increased. In order to liberate resources in health care for the patient, which will be focused, administrative affairs will be automated through the introduction of electronic health books and electronic charts. The reconstruction of four major health centres must finally be completed, after nearly a decade of the financial resources provided for the job. It is also important, as soon as possible, to introduce a system to measure the quality of health institutions, which would allow their work to be monitored by implementing improvements. Those health institutions that change for the better should be rewarded for their results, while others should be punished and forced to change. Bringing order into the field of sport through resolving privatisation issues in sport and funding sports. Establishing a clearly defined sport funding system in Serbia in line with the national strategy for sport development, with a particular focus on the problem of non-transparent sports club financing. Stopping direct financing of business clubs and editing of ownership relations in sport through the change of legal regulations and the end of privatisation in sport. The state has always reacted to pressures from different sides, because there have been significant social groups of great strength and popularity. The state has always gone out to meet, more or less, usually unreally large demands and the state has always tried, whoever was in power, to sort of level it among those who are the most popular or truly popular. Let me ask you, what did the state have to do with it? Respect, privatize. We want you to charge taxes, not take taxes from the state. This is how it works in all the normal countries of the world, and it will work in Serbia as well. The establishment of predictable and consistent policies in the domain of culture and the opening of a reconstructed National Museum. Strengthening the capacity of cultural institutions and the civil sector, and encouraging their professionalisation and transparency. The digitization of Serbian cultural heritage. Bringing a set of media laws, aimed at withdrawing the state from the media and focusing its influence on project co-financing of media content that promotes public interest. Regulation of the legal framework for the operation of RTS and RTV as public media services and ensuring their financing in accordance with EU rules. As a longtime MP, I don't remember a prime minister talking for a long time about his office's plans for culture. I don't remember, though, that any prime minister was engaged in that area, and I suppose neither will I. This wasn't a criticism, but as future prime minister, I want to assure you that the government I run will pay considerable attention to culture. The area of today's Serbia is the cradle of culture in Lepensko Vir, the peak of the artistic creation of Neolith, the first and largest cultural hub of Europe. Our space is the central point of Vincan culture, the technologically most advanced prehistoric culture in the world. Deserved or not, Serbia is the heritage of this historic spirit that possessed the space we live in today and therefore we must try to be worthy of such an inheritance, as far as possible. I believe that the cultural cradle rocked in Lepensko Vir and Vinča raised the greats of a newer time, from St. Sava, through the fresco painter, iconicist from Studenica, Sopocan and Mileševa, to Dositeo Obradović, Vuk Karadzic, Petar Petrovic Njegos, Nikola Tesla, Stevan Mokranjc, Ivo Andrić, Danil Kiš, Milos Crnjanski, Slobodan Jovanovic, Sava Šumanović, as well as Vasko Popo, Vladimir Veličković and Emir Kusturica, to mention only some of the many. In the spirit of new times and new challenges, which stand before our people and the state, we also want to affirm the basic principles of cultural policy that we will stand for. As I said, this will primarily be a concern for the preservation of cultural heritage, concern about language and letter, about the material and staff strengthening of cultural institutions, the growth of budget financing of culture in line with the material development of society, and the support of private companies investing in culture. What I didn't say was about sports. We will introduce tax exemption, but strictly controlled, since we know what abuses were in the past. For those who want to invest money in sports and culture, they will be able to do it with the lowest or no tax burdens, but the state will very strictly, very responsible and very seriously control it, for the simple reason that in the past when such ideas existed, we witnessed numerous abuses. Special care for talent, protection and promotion of the development of cultures of national minorities. The openness of Serbian culture for regional and international co-operation and presenting to the local public the content of traditional and modern European and world culture. Before we achieve strategic and cultural goals, I want to tell you that we will achieve one seemingly small goal, but symbolically important to our culture, for our entire country. I promise that this Serbian government will finally rebuild the National Museum in the Republic Square, which has been a closed decade to the shame of all of us. I am ashamed as a parent to have children living in this country who have not had the opportunity to see the National Museum, the most cultural treasure of our people, its rich collections of works of art and the cultural history of our people. I don't want to blame anyone for the fact that the museum has been closed for years, but I wouldn't feel good as a politician if the National Museum hadn't been reopened during the term of office of this government. After all, let me ask us MPs, ministers or whoever you want, if we know where Miroslav's Gospel is being kept today, believe me that 90%, I guess, wouldn't know, and every kid when we went to school knew exactly where he could see it. Serbian culture is the old family silver of European civilization and we will polish it silver and show it to the world that it admires it and that it is visiting Serbia for it. It's a big target, but it's reaching. Our culture will be our personal map, a sign of recognition across the planet, our pride and free to say our brand. Our artists, such as Emir Kusturica, Dusan Kovacevic, Miki Manojlovic, and events such as BEMUS, the trumpet assembly in Guca, BITEF, FEST, EXZIT, were and will be the best ambassadors and promoters of Serbia. The government will promote further democratisation of Serbian society and protection of free speech. These aren't philosophical elements, they're economic elements. Journalists and media are public defenders and elements in checks and balances over governments and business firms. Without the unrelenting cry of some newspapers against the terrible thefts and robberies that took place in state firms, the judiciary would be far more difficult to find out. The government is also committed to continuing without any further questioning of the investigation and resolving all cases of murdered journalists. No matter how much I sometimes don't like the questions that are being asked to me and how upset I am sometimes when I see what is being published, journalists in Serbia must feel that they can freely cruise and explore whatever they want without any concern for their own good. This is a fundamental requirement of free and modern society. We have begun and brought to justice the perpetrators of the most difficult case of Slavko Curuvija, but there are still cases from our dark period to which we must shed light, no matter what the price. I expect some other killings of journalists to be solved on this issue. In the past two years, according to standard measurement of media freedom and freedom of speech, which work every year Reporters Without Borders and "Freedom House", Serbia has climbed twenty places. This year, after 11 years of age, we will adopt three media laws on public information, electronic media and public services. In doing so, I want to tell you that these laws will be in line with what the European Commission wants, and they will also be approved by the Venice Committee. Speeding up the adoption of a new Code on the Protection of Alarmers, as well as the Law on Advertising. This Law Corps will represent a new step in introducing regulatory practice that is consistent with European standards through sublegal acts, through the establishment of mechanisms and through strengthening self-regulatory mechanisms, but also through judicial practice, we will allow these laws to truly be the basis for guaranteeing freedom of speech, freedom of the media and effective functioning and informing citizens. I want all future reviews on freedom of the media and journalists in Serbia to read and have only one dimension – the information is free. And when you have something to notice and you disagree with something and you complain about something, you have no right to influence anyone. When it comes to public services, and this area will be arranged in order for them to function according to the best standards, to be practically a free information locomotive, but also to be much more than ever, in the role of citizens, when it comes to educational and cultural offers. To be as efficient as any other media. We want to provide genuine self-serving public services. We have shown that in certain forms of combined work between competent institutions and interested professions, some difficult problems of heritage, such as killing journalists, and through the form of the government's commission to solve them, can be solved. In this regard, I am grateful to Mr Matic, but also to Mrs Smajlović and many others who have helped the government in the previous period on this trip. Social policy. The Serbian government will seek to realise measures aimed at reducing the poverty and vulnerability of individuals who are unable to provide themselves with basic living conditions, due to chronic illness, permanent disability, or age, as well as to protect the majority of the population from certain life risks, such as unemployment, illness, death. The government will advocate that Serbia has the social protection of universal character that covers the entire population whose basic foundation will be the security of citizens and their right to use social services. It will use examples of good practice and experience of certain regulated countries that have such a social protection system, the government will seek to ensure the preconditions for including all those measures and programmes that will protect vulnerable, vulnerable groups and individuals in the social protection system. These are those affected by structural reasons, crises or life’s difficulties, and their existential needs are not able to satisfy the work and rights that arise from work. In this sense, special attention will be paid to older people, ethnic minorities, refugees, asylum seekers, sick and disabled persons, or persons with special needs, homeless people, former prisoners, long-term unemployed persons, older workers, single parents, young people and especially children. In the structure of social protection users, the significant category is the population of the elderly. It is common knowledge that the elderly are most difficult to bear the consequences of the crisis, not only because of poverty but also because of the threatened health and inability to meet the basic needs of life in an adequate way, especially the needs for adequate health care. According to analyses and studies, the most endangered persons with special needs are children with disabilities. In these circumstances and in the conditions in which our country is located, all our weaknesses come to a full extent, so it is not surprising that our citizens are becoming increasingly difficult to decide on the formation or expansion of the family, difficult to find work, difficult or almost in no way solving their housing issue. We will bring the new Social Protection Act and this declared general goal of achieving sustainable minimum material security, uncertainty, individual and family in meeting the needs of life, creating equal opportunities for independent life and encouraging social inclusion, transforming from principle into action. The objectives of social protection are achieved by providing social protection services and other activities that warn, reduce or eliminate individual and family dependence on social services. This group of strategic goals is not a wish list. We believe we will achieve these goals, but that faith is not irrational. It is based on well-thinking and implementing plans that include some difficult but necessary decisions. The government will adopt Serbia's first real roof national development plan. It will not be written by a handful of well-paid consultants, as has often been the case with nearly 200 strategies adopted over the past decade, and many of which collect dust on shelves, it will be written by the whole of Serbia. He won't be a wish list where he has something for everyone, except there's no way to do it, it has to be a real plan, a product of hard real choices. There will be something in it for everyone, but everyone will have to give up something in it, but also something to give up. We'll have to tell the truth what it can do first and what it has to wait for. That's the plan we'll be able to believe, and that's the plan we're going to make. To implement this plan, this government will not only call for credibility through support from citizens won in the elections. This credibility will continue to develop and grow through an open and transparent dialogue with the professional public, businessmen, civil society exhibits, as well as political options from the opposition. Only such power can be in the service of all citizens and only such power can have general trust and support. Dear MPs, transforming our economy and reforming our system is a long process. It's a road with many obstacles, turns and dangers. But it's the only way that leads to economic recovery and better people's lives. The hardest thing to do is run, but once we start our journey, I believe that the energy of our society will prevail and prove that our people want to change, that our people want to build a better future for their children. Let me once again quote the wise Chinese people who say: “If you bring a rock to the same place every day, there will be a hill. ” Let's each bring one of us a rock and we'll build something better and bigger. No one's gonna sell you fairy tales. [[Applause]] Next year and a half, it's gonna be tough. There are major reforms ahead, deep cuts, big victims. But I expect that according to the estimates of the experts I've talked to, people and citizens of Serbia can expect to see the light at the end of the tunnel, right then and better to make great sacrifices in a short time than to extend the suffering for years, with half-region reforms and the extension of corrupt systems that steal from ordinary people to enrich a few. I'm taking full responsibility for that decision and I'm asking everyone else to give me this full responsibility, I guess, for too much love, this is something I could say to put on, not reminding me of, because I know it well. And I understand Serbia's citizens well, and I understand the Serbs very well, especially since I know how we treat every politician. So I take full responsibility for all those decisions and I'll be the first to suffer the consequences. Today we talked about the economy most, but this government has additional goals that it wants to meet. I have already said that the previous government has achieved exceptional results by opening accession negotiations with the EU. It is a strategic choice that Serbia has taken on itself. The government will not miss the historic opportunity and will continue full talks on negotiating chapters. They will be treated in the most serious way because this process will help to transform our country into a country in which it manages a law for a healthier business environment, a country that is open to investment and which is on its way to becoming a modern economy of the 20th century. When it comes to negotiations, we have put emphasis on five key areas of great importance for Serbia: agriculture, environmental protection, traffic, infrastructure, energy and regional development. In these areas, we should be prepared to adopt EU standards, but also make sure that we provide enough protection for our industry so that it does not suffer in its accession process. We intend to set before ourselves ambitious tasks, to open the first negotiating chapters at the most recent time in the middle of this year. We reiterated our desire to focus on Chapter 32, because it would contribute to the fiscal consolidation process, which is also part of the reform package that I presented earlier. The government will also put a special accent on the quick opening of negotiating chapters 23 and 24 dealing with the fight against corruption and the rule of law. We'll try before the end of this year, but it's more realistic to expect that to happen early next year. The ministry of justice will continue implementing two important strategic acts adopted in 2013 by the National Strategy for Justice Reform and the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. They identified priorities, and the accompanying action plans envisioned measures to be taken over the next four years. The establishment of an independent, impartial, high-quality and professional judiciary is a goal set by the strategy before the ministry as well as the main actors of the judicial system, courts, public prosecutor's organisation, lawyers and other judicial professions. However, the main goal we set is to restore the confidence of Serbian citizens in its judicial system. Citizens almost don't trust our judiciary. The government of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice will take all necessary measures to restore citizens' confidence in our judiciary. Serbia's definition of European integration is essential to reforming our judicial system. In implementing the National Strategy for Justice Reform 2013-2018 Action Plan and working on the implementation of all the measures put forward before the opening and after the opening of the negotiating chapters 23, 24, conditions will be created for an independent, efficient and quality judiciary which is one of the key guarantees that Serbia's legal system is safe for its citizens, but also for economic operators. Legal changes will allow for the transparent and independent functioning of the High Council of Justice and the State Council of Prosecutors, bodies guaranteeing the independence and independence of courts and judges and the independence of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. Working empowerment of the independence of the judiciary will continue through analysis of the relevant constitutional framework and changes in system judicial laws, as well as the transfer of full budgetary powers to the Supreme Council of the judiciary and state-run senior prosecutors no later than 2016. I just want those, if someone's got an exposé, which has a lot of pages, you'll notice that I skipped certain parts of the reading, so I apologize. Amendments and additions to civil procedural laws, the Law on litigation, the Act on non-partisan procedure and the Law on enforcement and security will create conditions for the effective conduct of the judicial procedure and the removal of the shortcomings recognised by their application. Fundamental changes will be made to address the problem of unifying judicial practice. To this end, certification bodies will be formed and the publication of judicial decisions in comprehensive and easily accessible electronic bases, together with regulations and court statistics, will be introduced. Extensive measures will concern improving the efficiency of the work of the judiciary by monitoring the effectiveness and possible correction of the newly established judicial network, solving old cases, amending procedural laws, establishing e-Justice. The introduction of new and perfecting existing judicial professions will be one of the priorities in the functioning of the Justice Ministry. Since September, the Law on Public Registration has started to apply, which in Serbia will become operational after more than seven decades. We point out that the functioning of the public notary profession increases both legal certainty and efficiency in the conduct of legal affairs. The court should relieve all accompanying cases in order for its absolute priority to become a trial within a reasonable period of time where a citizen will come to a judicial decision. The improvement of expertise, both the holders of judicial functions and their assistants, representatives of judicial professions and administrative staff, is a prerequisite for a successful judiciary, and through the application of the relevant regulatory framework and maximum support in strengthening the capacity of the judicial academy as a central institution for education in the judiciary, will create preconditions for the implementation of their mandatory, given that the Belgrade judiciary solves more than 60% of the cases in Serbia, resolving the issue of proper housing of judicial authorities in the capital will be one of the priorities. Over the next two years, the judicial authorities in Belgrade will receive about 24,000 square metres of space done in accordance with the most modern functioning needs. The accommodation will be received by the First Basic Court, the Second Basic Court, the Second General Public Prosecutor's Office, the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the State's Chief Prosecutor's Office, the Criminal Court and the Infringing Court of Appeal. The same period will begin a fundamental reconstruction of the Palace of Justice, which has not been thoroughly reconstructed for over 40 years. The building of the Court of Appeals and the Appeals Prosecutor's Office will be given to Novi Sad and Kragujevac, which will free up a large space in the building of existing courts that will be able to take over the Basic and Higher Court and the primary and more prosecutors. Large works related to construction, reconstruction and upgrade of buildings where courts and prosecutors are located will be implemented in Stari Pazova, Lazarjevac, Kraljevec, Petrovac na Mlava, Raška, Tutin, Šapac, Velika Gradište and Sombor. When it comes to fighting corruption, we have primarily one major project to modernise the criminal justice system. We need to build strong institutions that are able to prosecute all these serious forms of crime and corruption and effectively solve general crime. Institutions that are able to meet the challenges of the 21st century and transnational crime, drug trafficking, various abuses in the economy of illegal money, which is later laundered thanks to corrupt governments and the banking sector, are investing in legal flows. It's a basic scheme of corruption that only strong and well-organised state authorities can break. The launch of the new Code of Criminal Procedure and Strengthening the concept of a prosecutor's investigation is now under way. In this case, the prosecution, which is the central authority of the criminal proceedings, must be assisted by all state authorities and the private sector. The goal is to develop an efficient interinstitutional co-operation system in the fight against corruption. Different state authorities at different stages of the procedures they apply reveal details they might reveal in cases of major corruption. Are these organs connected in Serbia today and co-operate? I have to say very weak. To solve these problems, it is necessary to fulfill a few measures. An even better organization of the prosecution for organised crime and other prosecutions. The establishment of a system of exchanges of information between different state authorities which, within their jurisdiction, can detect organised crime and corruption. The establishment of strike teams to prosecute organised crime and corruption, whose work will be co-ordinated by the Ministry of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Establishing between institutional centres, co-operation to fight organised financial crime and corruption. Exchange and real location of officials of various state authorities who, within their jurisdiction, can detect organised crime and corruption. The D.A.'s gonna get a lawsuit for financial forensics. In order for all of this to be established, all legal obstacles, a new procedure of work, will be resolved, for which there will be maximum government support. In order to meet the National Anti-Corruption Strategy 2013 – 2018, we will form a strong coordination process that will lead to its full fulfillment. We will devote ourselves to strengthening corruption prevention through strengthening the authorities responsible for this area and amending the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. As early as June, an alarming law will be passed, which will protect citizens who are ready to report the corruption they see in relation to their work. Our goal is to close all negotiating chapters before 2018 and this means that we would agree and bring our laws and procedures into line with European Union standards by then. By doing that, we're going to open up to a large number of new investments. A country which closes all chapters may have access to a significant amount of funds from pre-accession funds. It is money that can be used to improve all Serbia's infrastructure services, and we want to leave some new people with the possibility of using these funds for the benefit of all citizens of the country. The Serbian government will also make a sincere effort to promote good will and healthy relations with all countries and governments in the region. This co-operation will be based on mutual consent regarding the territorial integrity of each country and the improvement of economic ties. As the first sign of such a policy, I decided that my first official visit outside the country, beyond Serbia's borders, would be Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, Serbia will develop the closest relations with Republika Srpska in line with the Dayton Agreement and preserve the interests of our people in line with the highest standards of international public law. Strong Serbia means always stable Republika Srpska. We will build Serbia as a country of peace, but we will help preserve peace throughout the world. We will seek to make as many members of our armed forces as possible in various peacekeeping missions, in the region and around the world, to use our knowledge and great experience from military training to military medicine in the best possible way, helping other countries, peoples, protecting security and developing peace policy. The government will also promote good ties with other EU countries and the rest of the world. Conflicts between the east and the west on Ukraine's territory do not contribute to Serbia. When our friends conflict with each other, we don't see a chance to win anything. Serbia does not want to be a part of these tensions. Serbia will never be able to give up friendship with the Russian Federation, and it would never be moral. Serbia, on the other hand, will always respect the territorial integrity of all UN member states. We want to improve our economic situation with both the Russians and the Americans, the Chinese and all the other nations and countries of the world. Serbia is no one's colony and no one's farce. As a small country of proud citizens, we will be able to safeguard our freedom, defend our integrity and the right to our own political stance and make sovereign decisions. By signing the Brussels Agreement, Serbia has defined itself as a path of peace, co-operation and negotiations. As never in the previous decades, Serbia has made its policy on the Kosovo and Metohija issue clear and unmistakable. Headed by the Constitution and the persistent patient struggle for the preservation and life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia has fulfilled all its commitments and has shown that it is reliable and that it is a secure partner. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija recognized our policy and I thank them for their trust and courage, without which it would not be possible to implement the agreement and work on new agreements. The formation of Serb municipalities communities, work to unite and achieve a common position of the entire Serb community in all life and political issues that determine the life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, a continuation of material assistance that will not change or reduce the workload of government tasks. The continuation of the Brussels Dialogue and the process of normalising life in Kosovo and Metohija is one of the priorities of the government and the true interest of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia particularly insists on starting property negotiations and preserving cultural and church heritage in Kosovo and Metohija. Policy towards Kosovo and Metohija has been defined and unchangeable. There will be no recognition of Kosovo as an independent state, and a solution to each issue will be sought and found within the framework of an EU-led dialogue. This kind of policy has already endured the weather test and this one, as well as any future government, will neither change it nor give it up. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija know that this is their government and that every move that makes this is done by respecting political reality and taking care of the interests of the entire Serbian state. Serbia as a multiethnic and multicultural country is aware that protection of minority rights is inextricably linked to the preservation of peace and stability of the country. She is also deeply aware that she has a right and obligation to her own population and that, as a democratic state, she must contain minority protection mechanisms for the abuse of the majority government. According to the 2011 census, about 13% of national minorities live in Serbia with more than 30 different national identities. This variety of society can certainly represent a great cultural wealth for the state, but only if the state has the right policy, integration, or if it manages a well-managed integration process that will prevent conflict and build a society of equality. In fact, we must not allow minority communities and society in general to have any interaction, i.e. that society consists of a multitude of parallel communities. It is necessary that all members of society assume their share of responsibility for its operation. Minority communities will assume that responsibility if they are given equal access to public goods and services and if they are given equal chances, because this is a way for members of the national minority to have a strong sense of belonging to the state of their nationality. Serbia as a democratic state deeply respects the multiculturality of its community and sees it as a priority when it comes to its development. She doesn't want to be a country that only rhetorically supports the recognition of Mankind's rights. We therefore continuously create conditions for each minority community to autonomously regulate the exercise of rights in the fields of culture, education, communication, official use of language and letters through its national councils. As we know, the national councils of minorities as an institutional form of self-government were introduced into the legal order of our country in 2002, and the adoption of the National Minority Councils Act in 2009 for the first time detailed ways of choice and jurisdiction of national councils. So far, application and analysis of the law have shown a number of problems and weaknesses. In order to remove the perceived weaknesses, the Government will propose as one of the first laws to the National Assembly for the adoption of the National Minority Councils Act to advance the election and constitution of national councils. The next task of this government is to declare the provisions of the National Councils Act, which the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional in January this year, in line with the Constitution. Of course, it will take special care to ensure that the preservation reaches the level of the rights of members of national minorities. Although some members of national minorities were concerned that that decision of the Constitutional Court would reduce their rights, that decision should be interpreted legally and thus approach the amendment of the legislation governing the rights of national minorities. Particular attention will be paid to the government to improve the situation of Roma through the consistent implementation of the Strategy to improve the situation of Roma. This government will make huge efforts to find and implement the most effective solutions to overcome this problem with the goal of all citizens of Serbia having personal documents by 2015, which is precisely the biggest problem in the Roma population. Dear People's MPs, distinguished Excellencys, today you have heard many ambitious goals that the government has set before it, many laws and regulations that we plan to make. It is easy to vote for laws and reforms in the government or the Assembly, and it is much harder to make sure that they are implemented in everyday life. We won't turn a blind eye to that problem. We will also form a special government team that will be called Project Implementation Unit, which will correspond to the finance minister and to me, to make sure that the decisions made by the Government are essentially implemented in life. Let me present to you after three hours ministers in the new government if, of course, they get your vote if they get your trust: Lazar Krstić – Minister of Finance, Dusan Vujović – Minister of Business, Snezana Bogosavljevic Bošković - Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Zoran Mihajlović – Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Antić - Minister of Mining and Energy, Rasim Ljajic – Minister of Trade, Tourism, Telecommunications and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Nikola Selaković – Minister of Justice, Kori Udovic – Minister of State Administration and Local Government and Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Nebojša Stefanović – Minister of Interior, Bratislav Gašić – Minister of Defence, Ivica Dačić – First Vice-President of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Justice and Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Security and Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Security and Minister of Security, Minister of Security, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Minister of Security, Ministers, Ministers, Minister of Security and Ministers, Minister of Security, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Minister of Security and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, Future ministers, today you are given the privilege and obligation. Data is a great opportunity, an irreplaceable opportunity to serve your country and help its citizens make their lives better. I don't think there's any greater honor than that. Serving your country in such a high position is the privilege a small number of people receive in life. But with privilege comes responsibility, especially in the difficult situation in which our country is today. You step into the government that took it upon itself to move mountains. If you have listened carefully over the past three hours, surely you understand what is expected of you and how difficult it will be. A lot of people would want us to fail. Many would like to prove us wrong and that our success so far was our people's fault. Many would like us to be open and Serbia to disappear, only to make them richer and have a handful of authorities. You'll all be under a lot of pressure. Some may experience personal harassment from those who think that the government can rock, to reverse their difficult decisions that it has decided to fulfill. We're not gonna make it on this mission if we all work alone. We're not gonna make it if we don't stand together. The disorganization of our country has its roots in the work of the government, where it was common for every minister to be for himself, for everyone to work for himself. Some ministers thought the ministries belonged to them, as if it were some kind of gift given to them. They protected their own cabinets as their own kingdoms and used their powers to make themselves and their associates richer. I assume you realize that these days are over and things are going to work differently in this cabinet? Only if we work together as a team can we have a chance to start fulfilling what we've taken over. Only if we cooperate with each other can we do great things together. Members of my cabinet will also have to agree and work together with the people in the project implementation unit. The cabinet members will also need to know how to work together and under a united strategy, which means exchange of information, co-ordination of activities and mutual support. There are no more feuds of political parties. It's over with the practice. After all, you saw, of the 19 members of the government, with an absolute majority received, only seven members of the SNS. It could've been 19. I think that shows a different relationship and a different view of Serbia's future. Some of you are from political environments, some of you are not, but they will all be tried in the same way. The MPs of this parliament and the citizens of this country will be tried. The standards will be high and we won't hesitate to ask for excellence. Every six months, each minister will have to submit a report on his activities, achievements and failures that we will jointly assess. Don't be surprised, I want to say this to all Serbian citizens, it applies to me, but also to all ministers, there won't be any big noise about any government reconstructions or I don't know what. One who fails to fulfill his assignments will find another or better solution. I suggest you don't waste your time, because that's what the citizens of this country don't have. I suggest you work hard and hard, because you set an example for the whole generation. I suggest you go the right way and be honest, because that is my fundamental promise and promise of this government to our people. Dear citizens, honourable MPs, respected ministers, distinguished Excellencys, church dignitaries, have spoken enough words. Now it's time to start working. People outside this room are anxious to see how we turn our words into actions and actions. This isn't just about our lives, it's about the lives of future generations. I hope that in four years we will stand in this room and look back at what we have done and feel pride, pride for having served our country faithfully, faithfully and courageously, pride for having managed to lead our people through difficult times and beginning to transform our economy into a modern and functional, and the rule of law has finally been guaranteed and provided for all our citizens. My cabinet will work precisely for the interests of citizens, with the intention of making their lives better, more valuable, more meaningful, for our country to be stable, for all citizens to be proud of it, to be recognized and recognized as a country worth working with, worth coming into, worth investing in, and in which more than anything worth living in. To return to the beginning, love and faith in Serbia. Only out of great love can one sign be made that says everything, as Milton Glazer did, making the most recognizable global sign and hunting New York with a heart instead of words. I want to experience at the end of my term that some talents from Serbia make a similar sign, which will describe the collective state of consciousness in Serbia, but also social opportunities that are significantly better than they are today. I love Serbia, I believe in Serbia, and I want it to be a feature of our government's work with results that everyone in this country will be proud of, and those in the environment and the world appreciate and show respect for our country. Thank you. Long live Serbia and forward Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u669	I thank you for the exposé of the candidate for Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. As we have heard the programme and the proposal of the government's composition, which has been presented by the candidate for Prime Minister, I remind you that it is in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u670	Dear Madam President, given that the exposés of the prime minister have been so engrossed and full of details and things to be answered and given the fact that we have not received it for the first time in the past seven years in writing, which is understandable, because it would probably need a truck to bring it to the Assembly, we ask, under Article 97, to double the right to debate the parliamentary groups, so that each parliamentary group would have the possibility indeed on such an extensive exposé to give adequate answers during the time it was provided. Also, considering that a rally is scheduled in front of the Assembly in support of this glorious moment, it should be possible for SNS MPs to attend there without fear that time will pass for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u671	Thank you. I will consider only the first part of your request, although according to the Rules of Procedure you yourself know that it is not the obligation of the written delivery of exposés of the prime minister, especially since the candidate for Prime Minister was the oral majority of the exposé. I have an obligation to put your motion to the vote. I ask the Members to put their cards in the MPs' voting units. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 203 out of 235 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Parliamentary Progressive Party Group – two hours, 43 minutes and 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group – 30 minutes; the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group – 20 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Socialist Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia – 12 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia – 8 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of New Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Vojvodjan Hungarians – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction, the Democratic Party of Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the SDA Group of the S. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak once, up to five minutes each. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs who wish to participate in the debate. While we're waiting for reports, I'll just let you know that you'll get your exposés in writing. According to Article 269. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme of candidates for Prime Minister and candidates for members of the Government. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall, until the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of the MPs, submit certain parliamentary groups. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u672	Madam President, Article 107(1), the speaker at the National Assembly session is required to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I think we should all be dignified today. I just didn't like the reaction of my colleagues. I think it's destroying the dignity of the National Assembly. You did say you wouldn't appreciate that second part of his exposure, but as far as I know, the only gathering that's going on today is the DS Chief Board, the Great One, which should, after everything that's been going on in the elections, decide who's going to be a member of the party, who won't, and the SNS hasn't scheduled any rally, so I don't know what's going on here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u673	Thank you. No injured Rules of Procedure. I thank both the MPs for informing us of the political activities of parliamentary parties. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u674	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable MPs, we had the opportunity to hear an extensive exposé, which made me remember the exposé that I had the opportunity to listen to, by the fact that here I am the fifth time a National MP. This is certainly the longest exposé we've heard, which is not his fault. But I also talked to my colleagues about it. This is indeed something remarkable in congregation practice. First of all, this is the first time I remember, in the history of multi-party in Serbia, that the president of Serbia's strongest party becomes Prime Minister. This has never been so far, which clearly states that the government was experiencing in one completely different way and that it was not enough in line with the good practices of parliamentaryism, that to whom citizens give the most trust and take the greatest responsibility. Someone may remember Zoran Djindjic, but I will draw attention to the fact that these were other times, that it was DOS and that the DS had, by public opinion, only 6% of the support when he became Prime Minister. So this is an extraordinary situation. I must say, I'm a little surprised, Mr. Prime Minister, that in his exposé he's given deadlines so detailedly when he'll achieve what he's about to accomplish. I have to say, there's a lot of skepticism in me because we can all plan something, but as the old saying goes, a man plans, and God laughs. In that sense, I don't know how this government is going to be able to respond to all these tax-listed demands that have been made here, how it's going to deal with exactly the time-limited plans that have been put out here and how it thinks it's all done in these unstable and insecure times that we live in. As for the downsizing of the number of employees, I must remind you, since Mr. Prime Minister repeatedly quoted classics as saying that two thousand years ago the Roman Empire spread to three continents, there were 60,000 people, all of which were administered by 10,000 officials. It's not impossible to reduce the administration. However, we all know that, compared to today's Serbia's Augie barns, they act as an apothecary institution, and that they will have to be cut into very deep and decades of unchanged structures, which have led Serbia to such paradoxical things, that in the past government, in which the Prime Minister and the first vice-president were now sitting, the patrons in Vojvodina were charged with penalties for trailers, connected agricultural machines, because they were not registered, and these same agricultural machines could not be registered. You had a situation where, on the one hand, the police do their job, on the other hand, courts do their job, on the third hand, they respect regulations that are contradictory, and all of these are paid by citizens. I hope things like that don't happen anymore. On the other hand, I hope that the times when children didn't get textbooks for us, because it's one of the things that's inadmissible that because of the differences in the native language, someone is denied education. The last government has failed to enter into a code list of occupations all those occupations we have graduated from today. I think it's also a very important thing to do. I think it's interesting that Mr. Prime Minister mentioned Kosovo on several occasions, much more rarely than previous mandates, but not one word, although I was a few minutes late because of traffic jams, so I apologize if I'm wrong, he didn't mention Vojvodina. Vojvodina, I will remind you, is very important for Serbia in general, because it is an example, not only of good international relations, but also of a good example of the existence and survival of the middle level of government, which is in line with the best European traditions. All in all, on a few things I would have to ask the prime minister how he thinks to do it, how he doesn't think our traditionally good relations with the Russian Federation are disrupted, and on the other hand it stops to protect Ukraine's territorial integrity. Since that question is very complex, I wouldn't be opening it right now, but I would ask one simpler question. Can this government be obliged to force the Russians to pay the mining rent in Serbia, at least how much the Russians pay it? We're not asking for anything more than that, but let them pay at least as much as they pay in their own country. Apart from that, it is a very important source of income for Serbia's economy. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will not stand in the way of this government, but I must say, because of what I've said, we have certain skeptics and that within 100 days when the results of this government are discussed, we will discuss what has really been done, what has come to be done, and then we will be able to give our final judgment on whether this is really how we would like it to be, and we would like everything that, or at least the greatest part of what the Prime Minister has done in his exhibition to come true. What's said in that exposé is less than that part about Vojvodina, which the LSV has been behind for 24 years. We cannot give up, as a party, on the anti-fascist tradition of Serbia and the people's liberation movement, as an authentic bearer of the struggle. We cannot give up the fight and we will not give up fighting for the autonomy of the Vojvodina within the Republic of Serbia, but the economic part of this programme is what absolutely deserves attention and I think that every step to achieving the economic achievements that we have here so vividly depicted will get our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u675	The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u676	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable MPs, candidates for ministers, citizens of Serbia, today I speak on behalf of the minority club SDA Sandzak – PDD. I'll speak from a minority aspect. I must say, when I speak, we don't settle in either position or opposition. Minorities have a desire, a goal in this country of Serbia to experience legal certainty, equality before the law and as the main goal of Serbia's European future, as developed, modern, prosperous countries, full-fledged EU members. The proposed program I heard, it's very comprehensive, and we'll try to make a maximum contribution to the realization of that program. He seems more over-expanded, at this point, too abundant. However, if we want major changes, we have to go to all the fields of life. As far as minority issues are concerned, I can tell you that as a man, as president of a minority party, who has gained the legitimacy of Bosniaks in Serbia, I have a very bad experience in relation to this ruling SNS-SPS set and their coalition partners with Dinkic in relation to the minority issue. Four years, or almost five years, from 2008 to 2012, and from 2012 to 2014, I talked about all the problems, and I entered the government with the goal of pointing to problems that the Bosniak minority is facing in Sandzak and Serbia in general, and to try to effectively measure the government and remove problems or problems that exist or problems that arise. As our public knows, my entry into the government was arranged by a coalition agreement, which I have here, which clearly defined the effective participation of Bosniaks in public life and the maximum involvement of Bosniaks in all state institutions at all levels in Serbia. But in five years, nothing was done, there was no mood to do anything. That's why I can't believe when I was a member of that government I failed, let alone now that we don't have any Bosniak representatives in the Serbian government. The Bosniak issue is one of our most difficult problems, perhaps after the problems of Kosovo and the problem of sustainable development of underdeveloped areas. I have to go back because of you ministers and for future prime ministers and say that all these previous DOS governments had on this list one private Bosniak or Bosniak party, which was elected on the big list, which, alone, had a message to Serbian citizens that they could choose whom they wanted, but the boss would appoint large parties. Secondly, all judges, prosecutors, officers in advance can project their loyalty to whoever's put on the big party list. I thought the SNS, which is one powerful political party, would not fall into that trap. Unfortunately, even after everything that's happened in our public, where we have hundreds of serious crimes, it's also about murder, armed assaults, kidnapping family members, there are hundreds that have been committed to the SDA of Sandzak. The state authorities, the police, the judiciary, the prosecution even though they were present they never realized it happened. It happened to me too, in my rooms. I was a minister. It was shot at the minister. The ambush was in my office. I spoke almost every cabinet session and no one ever wanted to raise that question. I'm not complaining, but I want to take advantage of the opportunity since the government's sessions are not being transferred to the public, I want to remind the public in Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, the generous Serbian people that those people who were in previous governments had the wrong attitude towards the Bosniak national minority. All the electronic media in Novi Pazar, the whole of Sandzak, were buzzing before the government's election and throughout 2013, regional media say that some coalition partners and close friends of Rasim Ljajic are accusing the future minister of being involved in serious crimes. That's what no one wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u677	I call on the MP not to abuse the speaker about article 107 and not to use offensive expressions and not qualify other persons on any basis. Next time, I'm gonna have to use MP law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u678	I'm talking about a candidate for the minister, why I'm going to vote yes or no.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u679	You have no right to qualify him in any offensive or negative way. Please read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u680	He's not qualified. Those who accuse him are qualified, not him. I was talking about people, his close friends and party associates accusing him. Let's just leave the subject alone. I would like to say that the large parties and large governments, before this government elected Bosniaks or parties or individuals, put on their list with one goal only, that every Bosniak legitimate request should be discredited, diminished, attacked or declared against Serbia, against the Serb people or destabilising it. That's unacceptable. We had one man, one Bosniak, in Sandzak we still have them, which are favorites of the regime, which are in a privileged and superior position and all those other Bosniaks who have been suspicious since birth, as Nusic wrote in one part of his work. That's not good for Serbia. If we want legal certainty, we need to ensure equality in court. We cannot allow the members of a party to worship and will not notice the most serious crimes, and the most ordinary citizens are asked to say that if they enter a university -- believe me, this college is not against Serbia, nor against the Serb people, nor against the ruling party. If they build the house again say – people, we can't do it, it's not good for this country. As minister, I was in charge of the sustainable development of undeveloped areas. I have personally visited 47 municipalities, I have met this wonderful Serbian people, generous people with whom their government and their authority disagree at all. Therefore, by proposing this candidate you do not allow me to speak about and the appointment of the minister was sent a message to the Bosniaks – choose whoever you want, and we will assign you the boss. All honours to other Bosniak representatives on other election lists. I'm not talking about them. I was just talking about a party that's been bright since DOS rule to this day and dresses in Sandzak. In that sense, I can also tell you that first I apologize to the Serbian public and also to the people of Sandzak, the Bosniaks for having to tell these difficult things, this ugly truth, and that it may not be convenient to say it in this solemn act, but it is time. The moment is for me to tell you that as Bosniak representatives, we support the programme and we will work on the implementation of this programme. As far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this candidate are concerned, we will be restrained. We won't vote against it. I don't think it would be fair for a boat that has 18 honest people to sink because of one who's not honest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u681	The word is made by MP Meho Omerovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u682	Madam Chairman, you yourself have warned the previous speaker of a violation of the Rules of Procedure, 107. However, what we were able to hear now is the greatest shame, shame and insolence of a colleague who spoke before me. At the moment we had the opportunity to listen to one of the most serious exposés in the recent history of Serbian politics, we are listening to monstrous accusations. We're listening to the monstrous accusations of a man who's desperate to be no longer in government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u683	I ask the MP to call on the correct member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured. Don't use this opportunity as a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u684	Article 107, I told you. Please warn the speaker, because what he's doing...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u685	I'm sorry. An MP has been warned and has no longer qualified as he did at the outset. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u686	Dear President, you injured Member 109 when you allowed the MP directly to address the other People's Parliament. In the end, you fixed that mistake. In the beginning, you saw that you would also use offensive expressions and that the most brutal violation of Article 109. I'm glad you took his word and applied this article 109. If you're asking me if I want the National Assembly in voting day to make a statement about this injury - I don't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u687	Thank you. I haven't taken a word of it from the MP, but thank you. According to Article 87(2) and (3) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to choose the Government as soon as possible. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u688	Madam Chairman, just after my report, you injured Article 109. I welcomed you for correcting that injury, and I welcomed that you took away your word and warned him of it. But you later said you didn't do it, and now I'm asking the National Assembly in the voting day to make a statement about this injury, about the violation of Article 109.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u689	Member of the National Assembly, which speaks before he has asked and received a word, said article 109, and which, in addition to warning the president of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda and other provisions. We'll put in voting day and this breach of the Rules of Procedure on the agenda. I give the word to Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u690	Mr. Future Prime Minister, respected ministers, JS will support Mr. Vukic's proposal that the candidates mentioned be future ministers and he will be elected Prime Minister. The exposés we've heard are a huge commitment to the future government. This exposure to be realized can't be done by ministers and the Prime Minister alone. All of us who deal with politics directly and indirectly and those in local self-government should help together to realize this exposure, in order for Serbian citizens to live better. If Aleksandar Vukic says he will provide investors, then that obligation has local self-government to create an industrial zone, not to wait for licenses for five or six months, to be much more efficient and not to wait for the minister for work, economy or finance minister to bring investors. Each of us has an obligation to monitor interested investors. At this point I'll give you a recommendation that it's Italy, Austria, Germany. The biggest country to send investors to Serbia during the last time period is Italy. I've been to Italy for the last two years eight times and I've brought six investors. What do we need to tell investors? They are not sufficiently informed what it offers Serbia to foreign investors? I am particularly pleased to hear in the exposé of the future Prime Minister that he will continue to grant subsidies to investors, but with a certain criterion. I cannot say that there was no criterion for investors who came to Serbia earlier, but in any case, in the future time period there should be a criterion and that we who are interested in bringing investors know what criteria are. What is important to us is that Serbian citizens should know that these promises of the future Prime Minister cannot be realised so quickly, not because he does not want them to. I'm sure he'd want everything he said today in his exposé to be realized in six months. But it takes at least a year to get to a new job and an investor to come to Serbia and lay the cornerstone of this moment. So, a few meetings, then a letter of intent, and then he's thinking about whether he'll come to Serbia to see what banks they are, etc. But if we send every day the benefit Serbia offers to interested investors... What are these benefits? To export from Serbia to Russia, Turkey, Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan without customs duties. That's what a large number of interested investors don't know. That the average gross salary in Serbia is 430 euros, e.g. in Italy 1,900 euros. That there are benefits when it comes to new jobs. We also heard about domestic investors and those who are interested in hiring workers to pay for ten workers only for three workers' contributions and that is the employer's obligation. I'm always optimistic. In order for everything Mr. Future Prime Minister has said to be realized, we need to help him all. At this point, a number of cities are being led by the opposition. Today we do not need to divide ourselves into power and opposition. We should share in the election campaign with the government and the opposition. If we criticise the government and its ministers all the time, then I'm sure we won't do anything, because such objections and such things have happened years ago and we should say - he's not from my party Minister or Prime Minister. Such behaviour has backward Serbia. What else would I ask the Prime Minister and the Minister? Let's see how to create the conditions that domestic performers and suppliers when they go to tenders not to have priority, but we simply have to realize that in the last four years foreign investors have had priority in Serbia, and Serbs are subcontractors at a lower price and up to 60% for individual investments when it comes to highways, railways, several clinical centres in Serbia that have been working in recent years. It's very important and needs to make a criteria for public procurement as soon as possible, which is what makes it favourable. It's not enough to give him 20 points at the start because he's a domestic investor. What about the factories that are in restructuring because May 14th will stop that status and these factories have no credit. What's a bonity? That they have had a positive business in the last three years, as it is required when a tender is called, that they do not owe the state, etc. That these factories that have markets, and I know a few, when they stop the status of restructuring that they can work on their own if the state write off their debts to the state and it'll be much easier. What else is positive from this exposé when it comes to agricultural producers? That they'll be helped, too. What's important is that Alexander Vukic didn't speak today and tomorrow's election. This is a big commitment, Mr. Wolfie, that you've given the dates for the realization. It is also a great obligation for you today to expect all those who are there, and I also say that this transmission is seen by 80% of Serbian citizens, because they think their life will change in six months for the better. He can't, given that it's been very difficult in recent years, and Serbia has been hanged by an economic crisis, that it was a tsunami for Serbia, and for some major countries it may have been a breeze. What else would I suggest to you, Mr. Prime Minister? Maybe you didn't mention it, not because you didn't know it, but maybe you didn't have time or didn't suggest it. We need to change certain directions in high schools. We have 30 years in 25 cities of the same direction. When they graduate from high school, these boys and girls have no place to work and then they all enroll – local self-government and administration, and everyone would work in the administration. We need to take care of what's in the future, what are new jobs, what are potential investors so these guys and girls who finish high school have the security to get a job. Today it is very important in Serbia and what language children learn. My recommendation is to introduce Italian to school because every other city has an Italian investor. What else did I want to say about this exposé? Given that I used to play sports, that I'm a sports worker and that from the budget of local self-government for 11 years I've funded all sports clubs from country football clubs to stone clubs and that this privatisation also saves local self-government from funding, which they had to give out of the budget for years. Why are we doing this? To turn people, or young people from a bad drug and alcohol road, to create sports grounds for them in the country and that they can take that negative energy out on sports grounds, it's the only motive, not just me, but the other financiers who did it. I also want to commend you. Until 17 years ago it was that those who helped sports were exempt from part of the tax. You didn't say how much and what, of course, you're going to make a criterion, but that's one motive for some big businessman if he wants to help some club. Until privatisation is carried out, I ask you to make this criterion as soon as possible, because there are many interested people who want to help, if he's tax-free, likes a club from his town or I don't know what, and he finds some motive to help. What is important for this realization, and why will the Unique Serbia support this project, to call it that? For investors, political stability is very important. Never greater and stronger political stability was in Serbia but this year 2014, and no one has ever acted like you in the last 30 years, or should we start from the 1990s to win, to get so many votes and to have only seven or nine ministries, and to have other functions get some other parties. I would also like to commend my coalition partners and the Socialist Party of Serbia, Ivica Dacic and the United Pensioners of Serbia, Mr Milan Krkobbic and the late Jovan Krkobbic, that we may be the only political coalition that has lasted for so many years and that we have been in office as Serbian citizens. I want to thank you for identifying us as good partners and for solving together all the problems that Serbian citizens have had in recent years. What's more important, and I want to commend in your exposé, that you won't cut pensions, given that pensioners finance both grandchildren and children, that almost 50% of pensioners are half sick people and that these pensions today, as they are, are in some way to survive. When the question of young people, how do we stop young people from going abroad? We need to talk to them all the time, but it can't be ministers, nor can the Prime Minister, it must be happening at the level of local self-government. Then take them to several cities, take him to Vienna, and he sees that there are none of their peers on the street in Vienna at 10:00 p.m. on Monday night. Where are they? They're home, sleeping or learning, going to work tomorrow. We have the fashion of going out at 11:00, coming home at five, six. I changed it to the city of Jagodina seven years ago, so it would be till half past noon, and on weekends to one, but it's not worth it. They go to another town when the catering facilities are closed. We create an even bigger problem, they go to the car, they drink some, etc. It's a system problem. We've got a system to solve. Parents can't solve that problem because then he's a stupid father, a stupid mother, goes a friend, goes a friend, doesn't go his kid. I think if we could solve it, we could help our parents, you know how much, to be grateful. It is a huge problem in Serbia at the moment. A unique Serbia will be of maximum assistance to the RS government. We're not looking for ministerial posts, we're not looking for executive posts, and we'll always be at our disposal, whatever you think we can help you with when it comes to what we know we're doing. I want to promise you today, Prime Minister and Minister, I have good ties in several countries, when the issue of bringing foreign investors, and I did not bring investors only to Jagodin, I brought the investor and to Batocino, made business co-operation with Novi Pazar, with Tristenik, "The First Five-year-old", with Vranje, with Ravanica from Ćupri, and I want to continue to assist both the cities and the people who run those cities. Just what I ask of you, if a delegation comes to us at some higher level, and what is today a higher level, it doesn't have to be a delegation at the level of ministers, but a delegation at the level of capital owners who employ 500, 600 workers, and that they had traffic in 2013 100 million and over 150 million, to respect them and thus to see that Serbia is not what foreign media has been showing for years. How can you bring one investor into Serbia today? By going to him, bringing him to Serbia, taking him three days to see what Serbia has, taking him to existing factories, taking him to a game to see that we are not savages, cheering up with them, taking him to a few rural households to see how the villagers live, and that's how I do it. Whom I say hello twice, that's mine. In that sense, I'd like to say that I want to help you. I'm glad to see the ministers here who were in the past and in some other governments and new ministers. I am sure the ministers will work and will be in the position of the citizens of Serbia and that is why the United Serbia will support this government and that this government will last for the next four years, to help the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u691	National MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u692	Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament Speakers, future prime minister, future ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, the SPO took part in the elections on the list of Alexander Vukic. The list was given the confidence of Serbian citizens to implement reforms. Sam SNS, the Serbian Progressive Party itself, more specifically Aleksandar Vukic, received absolute support in the March 16th elections. We will vote for the Prime Minister to be Alexander Vucic, and therefore also for his cabinet. We, entering the pre-election coalition, had then practically voted that he, as future prime minister, would be the bearer of reforms needed by Serbia to implement a programme outlined in today's exposé. Years ago, no one with serious authority in Serbia wanted to solve the Kosovo knot. When Vuk Draskovic presented the truth about the events in northern Kosovo in 2011 and faithfully conveyed a report by Serbian secret services presented to the Security Committee, individual representatives of the then ruling coalition demanded that he be arrested for giving away state secrets. In fact, some media and the state itself were then falsely representing a situation in northern Kosovo that was not in line with these Serbian secret services reports. We lived in a state that declared the truth a state secret and a lie about patriotism. The position of anyone who has the courage to tell the truth to the citizens of Serbia has proved to be very difficult throughout history. Therefore, the signing of the Brussels Agreement did not double-sensely indicate that political courage had finally emerged in Serbia that needed support. When I talk about political courage, I mean the one that came from the biggest party in Serbia and from its leader, Alexander Vukic. In this regard, it is ridiculous to criticise today's individual opposition because they can only be angry with themselves and their cowardice. They had their chance, but they didn't know or didn't want to, or they couldn't use it. Finally, in a year and a half, more has been done than has been done for the last decade and a half in the fight against the tycoon Serbia. I asked questions in parliament to Cvetkovic's government about the level of the tax debt of the largest Serbian tycoons. I never got an answer. Not that there was no will to examine the origins of their assets, but they were also hiding their debts to the state. The state has given them its resources to become illegally rich. The state was poor, the people were poor, and the tycoons were getting richer. Now it's time for the tycoons to answer in court. At a session of Cvetkovic's government, one minister voted positively for a proposal for a nasaradic Rehabilitation Act. From this pay phone several times I asked that Cvetovic's government, therefore his cabinet, deliver a vote report from that session and always get an answer that it was an official secret. Can the official secret be as voted by the minister? Who were they hiding it from? From MPs who choose ministers or from citizens? For years, it's been hiding from the people for decades, lying, so today every truth is bitter to us. The intention of reciting the past, that an associate witness may be a person who has been sentenced to 40 years in prison, has been thwarted by Aleksandar Vukovic and Vuk Draskovic. We've changed the criminal code. The murderers or employers of the crime at the Ibaric Master's Office, the murderers or officers of the murder of Slavko Curuvija, Ivan Stambolic, the assassins of Vuk in Budva, cannot be witnesses of the co-workers. I have provided enough reasons why, as an incomparably smaller partner in the last elections, we were in a coalition with the SNS, and we have highlighted as a candidate for Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Not to forget, in addition to the indisputable and biggest support the future prime minister has, I must commend, without the other future ministers hating me, two people from his team, Nebojsa Stefanovic and Bratislava Gasic. I've worked with them a lot as a colleague and I only have words of praise when it comes to their choice for ministers. Thank you for your attention and good luck to the future prime minister, and the most sincere support for the start of the job will be from our SPO and DHSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u693	Thank you. The word is Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u694	Dear President, Mr. Vukic, future prime minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transfer, would be too ambitious to comment on one three-hour exposé in the next five minutes. Not because I wouldn't have words of praise, but because I'd like to make this speech of mine informal in certain moments, as Mr. Vukic did, which is what I think the citizens who listen like most. Maybe until yesterday I didn't know it would last for three hours, but I had no doubt that the type of exposé that Mr. Vukic made would be so ensnared, precise and deadlined. It may look like the story of one of our famous basketball coaches, I read yesterday his interview, not to tell him my name, which says that Mr. Vukic knew and when he was a kid, I apologize for that expression, and that he was particularly hearty, especially when we went, it is known which one of us, in Zagreb. He said -- if in the current job, since it is obvious that he will be elected Prime Minister, he will also have a quarter of that heart rate, he will produce great results for Serbia. I believe that, not only as a star, but because of what I've gained so far by following Mr. Wolf's work. I can't even say I'm his associate, not his acquaintance, but someone who might have seen what he's doing from another echelon. I can't help but tell you a few words, or questions that the citizens have showered on me these days, knowing that I'm going to be saying something here. Let's say, one citizen says, and I'll say what I think, that 2,000 families own everything in Serbia, and money and capital and real estate. How's that gonna change? He says that there are only two ways, one peaceful, in parliament by passing laws, and one that none of us, of course, wants. Maybe this next question I'm going to ask you will look banal for this moment, but I'm surprised how important it is to the citizens, and that's a TV subscription. We either pay her or we don't pay her? If we pay for it, we from western Serbia will not pay for TV Belgrade. The current programme, particularly in the information section, is 80% related to Belgrade. I don't know why we, for example, would, from western Serbia and other parts of Serbia, pay for the subscription of TV Belgrade. It is obvious that there are surpluses in the public sector and that these painful measures will have to be brought in and there will be layoffs of workers. Some citizens say – stop half the agencies all of a sudden. Mr. Vukiæu, in neither previous nor in that government, I have not received an answer, and I have not asked you, I am sure that I would get, no one knew how many agencies there are and how many people work in them, and everyone knows how many MPs there are and what the salaries of MPs are, which is what citizens need to know. I know for a fact that the great Germany with 100 million inhabitants has, I think 51 agencies, and I think we have one three times as many. If there has to be layoffs, and it's obvious it has to be, then let's start with those agencies. Please, one man who owes a lot of pay, and he worked in the private sector, however politically naive that he asked me, and as much as I'm here right now, politically naive, I'm going to ask you to pass a law that defines not paying any wages, to be a crime. To know that in many companies in the private sector there are small salaries, not because the private sector is in a bad situation, it is generally because they blackmail our children and make them work for 100, 120 euros. That's what all Serbia knows. So here I'm not talking about 99% of private workers who work often fair, fight and barely pay taxes that are large, but you know well who I'm talking about. There are no Miskovics only in Belgrade. At least in every city of 30 to 40,000 inhabitants or more there is a small Miskovic. Here's what the citizens tell you, of course, not knowing the division of power, what's legislative, what's executive and what's judicial. They say -- don't bail out 12m euros, but 200m euros and give them all five passports, if they want, right away, best not to come back. Finally, I want to tell you, this is now my personal impression, that Serbia, looking at its political history in the last 25 years, now has a third chance, and the people say – three times and God helps. In the 1990s, we know who got huge support from the citizens and we know how, unfortunately, it all ended. I don't even want to comment on that. After October 5th, Serbia and its citizens had a second chance, and I don't want to comment on how it ended. Hundreds of thousands of citizens and millions of citizens feel now on their skin, unfortunately, as it ended. Today with you, I am not someone who gluffs anyone, I speak as a father of two children, has this third chance, first of all because of the power given to you by citizens in the elections, as well as your coalition partners, as well as New Serbia among them. Therefore, the New Serbia Parliament Club supports Mr. Alexander Vukic as Prime Minister, supports the cabinet he has proposed and supports the programme he has presented here, and we will help all of our forces as much as we know and can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u695	Thank you. The word is Dr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u696	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam President of the National Assembly, Mr. Aleksandra Vukicu, future Prime Minister, I will start from one of your last sentences – the words are spoken enough, now it has to be done. I will give up my written discussion and I will say only a few things that I think should be said at the moment in which Serbia is located. What I want to point out is that's your reform approach in all the areas you've listed. You gave a very good assessment of the current situation, which is expected in the short term, in the first six months, what is expected by the end of this year and what is expected by 2016. That's the great courage you've shown. You've even pointed out who's responsible for it. You first, and then your team that you have. Of course, alone with the team you have, you can't do everything unless you have all of Serbia behind you, and you have Serbia behind you. Why do you have it? At the election vote on March 16th, the people said what they were thinking and gave you full confidence and expected much from you. You are currently Serbia's hope and that fact itself gives you a very large responsibility. But we need to be realistic, we can't go forward unless everyone gives their part of the work in their area of action and where they work. You gave me inspiration by quoting Chinese proverbs. I will quote one: “If everyone in his house turns on the light, the whole street will be lit up. ” In other words, if every Serbian citizen realizes that we have to change, that we cannot go on like this and that this is the way Serbia changes, then we have a chance to succeed. So we need to understand that the success of the reform is only possible if there is a consensus in the whole society. I believe you will have great resistance, those resistances you have already emphasized. There will be losers, political losers. We've been listening to some political losers today, who will want to take you back to the state that was Serbia, once before. No, this Serbia will no longer be, this Serbia will be New Serbia, which will be for the reputation of all the countries in our environment. We can do it all together, because we have capacities, we have people, we have to change ourselves and our way of working. That is exactly where I expect you to give this initiative, and that all of us in this place, and therefore we MPs, too, will make a contribution to make this Serbia change to be better and better. In my presentation, I can't help but look back at the laws we're going to make. Of course, the one of the most important laws, and you yourself said "condition son qua non" is the Labour Act, we need to change it, we need to modernise it, we need to make it applicable and sustainable. What do we need great rights if we can't achieve these rights, and that's exactly what I expect from you and your team to make such a law, which will mean social consensus. In the right sense, it will be agreed by social dialogue with trade unions, employers, and the government will only give a framework on how to do it, how to do it. This way you have to transfer some of your responsibility to the unions and employers. Not everyone can ask for something. Everyone has to make a difference. It's easy to look for, it needs to be realized, it needs to create a basis to share something. In this sense, in the name of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, you will always have the support for talks, agreements and for finding the best solution to the Labour Law, and this is not through the means of information, but that working groups, ministers, and you, as Prime Minister, sit down and on every issue find a compromise for the moment in which Serbia is located. There's one more thing I'd like to suggest, no reform has succeeded unless there was a social contract. You well know the experience of Germany, the former Prime Minister, the Chancellor of Germany was with you, you know that he made reforms, he did a lot of things, a social contract was signed where trade unions and employers guaranteed that no strikes would take place, and that the level of pay, the level of employment would be as agreed, a certain period of time. That's exactly how we can get out of the crisis we're in. If certain stakeholders are looking for everything they're looking for so far, we'll have strikes, we'll have a constant return. Serbia has no time to go back. Another thing as the Social Democratic Party of Serbia we insist, we insist that Serbia be a society of equal odds. Equal opportunities for all, that each, by his own work, by his pawn, by his own knowledge, can live and achieve his life and achieve himself. We know this is one society in transition after all. What we're going to stand for, it's employment, which is more employment and bearable inequality. Serbia is moving forward with very large inequalities. We have already divided ourselves into those who have many, who have nothing expensive and who boast and those who do not have much and who survive and who think how to survive from this day to tomorrow. So, society of equal opportunities. I can't help but look back at pension reform. It's really a very difficult and painful area. Be assured that we are ready to participate in all this, calmly without much fuss, without much talk, but to find the most optimal solution. An optimal solution that truly those who have the least can survive, because what we need is a reform of the pension system if those who have the least can't survive. I'd like to ask you all these questions that I said to say one more thing. You've touched a lot of areas, health care, education, public administrations and where reforms should take place. One of the areas I want to highlight is education, including higher education. I think the trend in education, and especially in higher education, has been given one mega direction, which is to lower the level of knowledge and give a diploma. It's getting more and more diplomats, and there's less knowledge. I'll end up with the same saying, if you're my inspiration, it's Latin but I'll speak it in Serbian – beating myself is the most beautiful thing. I think Serbia can beat itself for the next four years, be better, be a better Serbia that must be in this region a country that will serve its reputation. I don't think it's going to be fast or easy, it takes time, and that's the time we have. He needs to be realistic and know what he wants and where he wants to go. I think we know that. Parliament will give all its capacities and the SDPS parliamentary group in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u697	The word has Milan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u698	Mrs Gojkovic, Mr Vučiću, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who follow our work today, the exposures we heard today, and the objectives stem from this exhibition meet those basic criteria. I think they're clear, they're concrete. I hope they meet that necessary third element, which is to be realistic. It's on the mandate, it's on the future government, and it's on us all here. Most of the exposé is dedicated to the economy, I mean rightly. Economic issues, the launch of economic activity, are key things. Of course, but before these economic issues, I would like to address an important topic concerning our party, which concerns a large number of Serbian citizens. A lot of people are watching this transmission today. I am convinced that, almost, 1,700,000 pensioners follow the work of this Assembly. Rightly so. It was rough. They've been waiting for maybe an announcement that's fateful for them that pensions will be reduced. It took great courage, gentlemen, to say the least - we're reducing small pensions anyway. But of course, for me it may be even more courage to say – no, we will not reduce them. They'll stay that way. But we'll do some other things. We'll make it a business activity, make that income side of the balance bigger and make it better for all of us, and then for those people who live the hardest in Serbia. From that point of view, the PUPS parliamentary group and myself personally, we are giving full support and we are grateful to the prime minister for his courage. I repeat, to this courage concerning this second part. In his presentation, he used one word and apostrophe. He said the hardest thing to do is run, and I think it's the hardest thing to do in this country. And that's where all our potentials should be included. As far as this economic part of the programme is concerned, I fully support the development of the private sector, I also call it the real sector, of course the public sector needs to be transformed, we need to bring it into real terms. I also have some moral right to talk about how the public sector works today. I run one of the big public enterprises and I have to tell you that year-to-year is both profitable and investing and giving full satisfaction to employees. The net profit of the company, it's the Post Office of Serbia, last year was two-and-a-half times bigger, you who are in business know it, since last year. In this year, the results of the first three months are, the net profit has been increased by over 50%. I think we belong to one or two or three of the public enterprises the prime minister was talking about. This does not mean that all public enterprises are successful and function in the right way. Of course what you brought out for me is important. I often point out that the state of expectation is not good. The state of expectation is the right thing to do. You've defined what you think about EPS, you've defined what you think about Telekom, you've defined what you think of most public enterprises. You even set deadlines. And that's good. This leaves the ability to manage these companies to take adequate measures, of course to focus and to respect those deadlines. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make one suggestion with all this. Next to the so-called. The public sector and the real private sector in Western Europe exist, so-called the third sector - the social entrepreneurship sector. For those not referred to in this matter, the developed Western European country in the social entrepreneurship sector generates up to 10% of the social gross product. Slovenia 7.5%. Here, this is my little contribution to the future government to consider the possibility. We don't need 7.5 as Slovenians, let's give one, two or three, so three percent within the national social gross product get us out of these problems. The social entrepreneurship sector is intended for people who are not competitive on the labour market and who are users and, in most cases, are currently consumed by this social assistance and social giving at the level of the Republic and at the level of local communities. By developing this sector, I think we would be heading towards business activity. There's one thing that doesn't turn out to be that everything around here with some amount of praise, something I'm interested in, I may not have quite figured it out. You have announced the formation of a fund of investment that will take a bad turn from some business banks. Of course that requires a special clarification. Business banks in Serbia are mostly foreign-owned and, as you know, they had a net profit of nearly 300m euros in the past few years. So somewhere around here, somewhere a little bit more, a little bit less, about 300 million euros came out of the country. Now I see they're in trouble. If I followed you well, 20% of these banks are already critical, regardless of the risk assessment, in the population it's 9%, it's a better picture. I'm interested, let's be extremely honest, is it going to cost the taxpayers of Serbia, the investment in that fund, that investment fund that will take over these rankings, or are you counting on the funds that will be donated from the outside? One explanation because from what I've heard, I have a right, and I think most of the MPs can explain things. As far as the programme is concerned, it requires full activity from the Serbian government, all its members. To make the government look like a team, that's something we'll all say hello to. And I'd still have some kind of suggestion. We had a meeting with the future prime minister, directors of large public enterprises, and I would ask him to continue this practice. He will have a lot of obligations, but in the way he meets the ministers it would be necessary, with all due respect to the future economy minister, to meet with the directors of public enterprises in these initial stages. In such a way, they would absolutely enter to say, in a certain order, and this extraction from the ministries also means a new way of functioning these companies. I then gave some suggestions for the work of these public enterprises and I think they are usable, you brought them out and you have your vision, but that coordination doesn't come down to the directors of public enterprises filling out forms. We had this case of the previous minister who didn't show up in any public enterprise, and that's the case, but he was sending forms. And he sent us to fill in and give him information. You don't have to meet these people every day, you have to hear their reports, you give them directives at that meeting, that was special, which I liked, and here's the press release, about what people, you work in the public sector, tell them how much the company is going to put into the budget of the Republic of Serbia at the end of the year. I think these are some new directions along with these clarifications. The PUPS parliamentary group will support this programme without any conditions, we simply believe that it is a key, defining mission that we have, and that is the protection of pensioners in this case has been fully implemented. As far as the Labour Act is concerned, I'll be open, I don't want to take on myself a prerogative colleague from the SDP and the Socialist Party, they're here and they'll always give the right solutions to the Labour Act. I wish you, Mr. Future Prime Minister, to the members of the government, a lot of happiness, someone will say that you will need it, but people are the blacksmiths of their own happiness. I wish you complete success. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u699	Ambassador Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u700	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Prime Minister, candidates for ministers, fellow MPs, I would like to start by asking the president, as well as the mandater, as head of Serbia's strongest political party, to correct one thing that is bad and not in the spirit of the exposure we have heard. In fact, not all the media will be allowed to be in the O.R., I'm glad it's fixed... (President: Allowed. )......................................................................................................... Thank you. It would be bad for such things or announcements of such things to happen in the future. The exposé of the prime minister was indeed extremely exhaustive and detailed, although it could, on several occasions, have heard some of the same things, in the end, somewhere near the end, the prime minister said that this was not just a list of good wishes. Unfortunately, we do not share this belief and out of that belief MPs from the Boris Tadic group – The New Democratic Party – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia will not vote for this government's election, i.e. it will vote against. The fact is that in the new Serbian government, which I suppose today will be elected, eight new ministers will be elected. And 11 old ministers. In his speech, the prime minister referred to some things that are bad today in our society, saying that the decline, or reason for the small growth of gross national income, is a huge decline in the construction industry. So who was the minister of construction in the previous Serbian government in the last year, or two, days? Does this person, then, deserve to be trusted again and be a member of the government? What is the state of security of citizens today on the streets of towns and municipalities in Serbia? We had pre-election campaigns in several cities, the largest were in Nis, if you remember, spontaneous gatherings of citizens who protested because the safety of their children and their children, on the streets, was guaranteed nothing, because police had not done their job for years back because they were not appointed to leading police in many cities and municipalities in Serbia. What about energy as Serbia's chance? I've been hearing about it for a very long time, what's been done and why the person, the minister who ran that resort, now we can count on it to be better in someone else. What about culture? The Minister of Culture in the eight months he's in office knows if he once spoke to the parliament or the citizens of Serbia with his ideas or plans. And in various other areas, we can ask the question of people who have been in government so far – what has been done during their term of office. This government is not new to us, it was formed just over 500 days ago, I was counting on it seems to me 505 days when the first government was elected in which most of you were. That's five times 100 days. My question is why, at least in one of those fifths, did not do what you announced today that it would be done in the first 100 days? We believe that's what Serbia needs. As you invited us here to be, to sleep, to take a bath, to eat, I invite you to be with us, as well as fellow ministers who will be there to explain certain laws, because unfortunately parliament in the previous period couldn't work, because there were no ministers who were supposed to defend the laws, so there was a waste of valuable time that I agree with you, today we don't have any more. I call on you, too, to be more often in parliament, because I think it's the only place you'll be able to hear a different opinion. When you're in power, when you're prime minister, when you're doing as much as you do, people around you usually tend to avoid telling you bad things or maybe what's going on in the reality of Serbia's life, so I invite you to be our guest here often, so that we can exchange opinions. I think it will benefit you in your work and that you will be more successful. You've talked a lot about what's the problem with the budget deficit that exists today in Serbia. As the main reason you cited an increase in pensions from the end of 2008. You said that then Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic was against it, but that it was still done to gain greater popularity and that someone would be loved by people. You know for a fact that this decision, now that we're looking back, may not have been economically rational and that's where we can agree, but it was part of a political agreement. Those parties that insisted on the deal are now part of the ruling majority, today they are members of your government, even though you didn't have to do it. One of the reasons why we decided not to participate in the work of the new government, although we discussed this possibility after the elections, although you did not need anyone's support to form the government, was because we believed that with these people all these ideas and wishes that you proposed to us today, which all Serbian citizens heard. But despite that decision, the deficit and budget deficit by 2012 was not as much as it is today. One of the reasons and the main reason for this is because by 2011, by the end of Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's term of office, in the last year, in 2011, foreign direct investment was two billion euros, and in the past two years, how many of you, namely now some of your government members, led this government, direct foreign investment was less than a billion. Without these investments, of course, the budget deficit has increased and of course now, without the rebalancing, as you said yourself, there is a danger that it will reach 8% this year and that's why you announced that rebalance in the next month, I think, a month. We warned you when the budget was passed at the end of last year that it was not real and that it would just lead to this, the budget deficit and the problems in the functioning of the industry. Many times you said that you would break up with the practice of feudalisation of ministries, public enterprises and as one of the measures to prevent it, you stated that the Ministry of Economy, or the Minister of Economy, will now control the work of all public enterprises. In the previous days in the discussion we had here on the Ministry Act, we criticised this solution. Of course it takes stronger control of the work of public enterprises, but we don't believe that one person can do it in the most qualitative way. I'm afraid there's going to be a bottleneck that's going to be created that public enterprises that are doing well today are going to cause a problem. There are a few things that you haven't said anything about, and we think they're very important and that without solving these problems, we can't even have a successful healthy society as we all want. The first thing is the reform of the political system. It may not seem like a big problem to you at first sight, but I think this is exactly the problem of feudalisation and political relations towards the state, according to public enterprises, as it has been in recent decades, and in order to change our opinion is that we need to change the political system, that we need to amend electoral laws, that we need to introduce a greater responsibility for politicians because, you will agree, you have kept your list, Mr Dacic your list, Mr Boris Tadic our list and Dragan Djilas has led the DS list and the largest number of votes has been received on the basis of the personal trust that the citizens had with you, the four of you. We've all been hiding somewhere behind and we've got a lot less responsibility. I don't think because of the lack of that responsibility we can make our contribution in the right way and mistakes are happening. Another extremely important thing, we have not heard anything concrete about it, perhaps if certain laws are passed, which is the re-industrialisation of Serbia. I think you need to invest. If this investment is going through that investment fund, I think it's up to the industry to invest first. I think it's a problem and Europe. Europe has fallen to about 12% of the creation of national income from industry, and the European Commission itself has set the goal of creating 20% of GDP in the EU by 2020, meaning from the production of certain goods. In the world, it went so that all production moved to China and far away Asia and, of course, it gave us a problem over time. Another problem, it's the detabloidization of our society. Unfortunately, we're witnessing that practically the tabloids are without any control, that they can judge, judge, shut down whoever they want. Disinformation is served without responsibility, and I think it is a great task for the old culture and information minister to carry out what you have announced, which is the adoption of the law from the media sphere as soon as possible. In the end, you have ended your exposure to do all this because you love Serbia and that you believe that all those who support you out of that love will give their maximum. I want to tell you that we who are in opposition also love Serbia and do not doubt it. What we're doing isn't against Serbia, it's not against you either. It's our desire to be better for all of us, only we see different ways of getting to that better life. We will, of course, vote against. We'll be there for all of these laws that you've just stated that in the last hundred days, by the end of the year, and for the next three years, we'll be on the agenda. When we see concrete solutions, we'll talk about them. Somewhere we'll get along, somewhere we won't get along, but I want to believe that one sentence of Ivo Andric, which has been in my head for the last few days, will stop describing the situation in Serbia. Ivo Andric said, "Infectting someone by waiting is the safest way to rule them." I want us to stop waiting today, that the wait is over, and that we're going to start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u701	National MP Dijana Vukomanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u702	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting for breach of the Rules of Procedure because I think my esteemed previous speaker has injured the Rules of Procedure at point 106, which says the speaker can only speak of the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Also point 101 of attitude 1 injures the dignity of the National Assembly. Finally, Article 104, paragraph 2, because we have explicitly recognised the mention of our parliamentary group. In fact, I think that we should be aware of the importance of this moment and the importance of the work ahead of us today, even though it is a solemn moment. So it's about forming a Serbian government. Today is a week, but today is not a day of drinking that is traded and advertised by its political past or places its dissatisfaction over lost choices. I would really like to pray that in this day we concentrate on what is a key topic, which is the exposé of the prime minister for the composition of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a state issue, not the treatment of someone's political complexes, so I ask you to focus on what is the subject and what is the task in front of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I am indeed expressing and noting, just to mention the numerical data that our coalition, after our esteemed partners from the SNS, has gained legitimacy in these elections to lead and create politics and we simply think that this is not the time to write subsequent political memoirs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u703	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, I don't want to censor MPs when they talk about the exposé of the prime minister. Do you want the National Assembly to declare this injury?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u704	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u705	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u706	Dear People's MPs and MPs, future Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, in my speech, I will refer to what the future prime minister said today, but also to everything that has been said in recent months, not to mention years in this country. One of the sentences was that this would really be a government like Serbia never had. Today, when I look at this government, I have to say that this is really a government that Serbia never had. True, this isn't the new government, this is actually the second time we've been reconstructed by the same government that we got in July two years ago, because it has representatives of the same parties, and it has a lot of ministers sitting in the last government and we have some new people who showed up here. Let me state my opinion that this will not be the final reconstruction of this government and that in the next 12 months there will be new reconstructions, that some who today are happy to enter the government or others will be preserved, as the people would say, alive and out of it, and some who have been made to be in government from that spare bench running into the field. The same parties made the government. The question arises – what did we then have elections in Serbia? I listened to the Prime Minister at the time who said he was ready to step down as Prime Minister, that there were no problems. We lost a few months in this country to elections, a few billion to get what we could get a few months ago, another reconstruction. True, in the meantime, part of the opposition has disappeared from this parliament, some are past, as you can see. We'll see what it will look like next, but I'm sure it wasn't the main motive for these elections in Serbia to take place. Before I move on to the specific and personnel solutions and programming that we're talking about today, I need to remind you of one thing. We've been reading in the media for 10 days that this is a government that will be terribly successful and because it has the smallest number of ministers in history, Malten. I would remind you that Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's government, which was viewed by you as the most unsuccessful, had one ministry more and that is the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. Logically, today, when Kosovo and Metohija are essentially no longer part of Serbia, there is no need for that ministry, because it would be completely pointless if it existed today. Today there is no more state institutions...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u707	I must warn MP Gilas of the sentences he pronounces, for the respect of the state and parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u708	Thank you, but you will agree that there are no more institutions of the Serbian state in Kosovo. We're all aware of that, and we don't need to close our eyes, but we need to face reality. As for that same government you thought was the most unsuccessful, I already explained that it wasn't. It's more important who are the people inside than the number of ministers and the number of ministries. More importantly, what they are going to do is what they are offering to Serbia today. Let's get back to our personal solutions. It's not the right thing to talk about new ministers. People deserve a chance. They're here for the first time and we'll see in the next period, maybe it's 100 days, even a little bit so they can show as much as they can and can. What's certainly a problem for this government is the fact that this government doesn't have people who've been dealing with real economy, people who have experience in business, who know what it is when you work and run a company, when you have to charge something, it's late, and you need to pay the salaries to the employees, pay taxes and contributions to the state. It's a big flaw. In addition to Mr Gasic, who has experience in the economy, has experience in bankruptcy, it will be very useful in this government, since obviously for these economic measures there will be a lot of bankruptcy in Serbia. I don't want to talk about the qualifications of anyone, for any place, nor Mr. Gasic, but I have to say that he is the third defence minister we get in just 22 months, that this is an extremely important function and that Mr. Vukic himself was in that position, so he was Mr. Rodic, so here we have the third defence minister. About the other ministers and their work, you've already heard DS attitudes and I won't waste too much time. About what's been done in the judiciary, we all know, we know this DS's position on judicial reform, but we also know that these things haven't moved for the better. We could hear that from that little media that even published something, in the discussion between the Supreme Court member and Mr Selakovic. We believe, argue and stand behind it, and we will continue to stand, until we are convinced otherwise, that there are still abuses and prosecutions and abuses and processes and everything else, which affects the people who are members of the DS and the people who were my closest associates in the work I've done in years ago. We in this government today have one for me, a truly amazing fact, that two ministers have switched positions in the government. It is not unusual in the world for someone who has done one area by nature of things to cover another area, but it is truly unusual for ministers to change, as images change in the Terraces, so one Messi for Neimara, one Neimara for the Messiah. It's not usually done. Mrs. Mihajlovic has expertise in her biography and she can be seen for the area she ran. The fact that we disagreed with many measures and criticized each other, we cannot say that there is no CV for the job it was set up for. Today she's going from energy to traffic and infrastructure. Mr. Antic has worked with me in Belgrade on many infrastructure projects and has qualified him for the position of minister of infrastructure and traffic. Today he passes to the Ministry of Energy and Mining. If these people didn't do their job well, they couldn't sit in government anymore. If they've done it right, they should keep doing it like they've done before. Today in Serbia, the question is only who has the courage to say that such a solution was influenced by some great world powers that were looking for such a thing. I can't say that because I don't have any proof of it, but it's really amazing that these kind of personnel solutions happen. As for the economy to which the prime minister has devoted the most time, absolutely justified, we have been talking about the economy for two years as the most important subject, and it was the most important subject, but not to go back to the past, that way. The finance minister remains Mr. Lazar Krstic, whom we learned from these same tabloids, who wrote about those not in the government and close to the ruling party in a different way than those who did, that he was the world's largest financial expert, which was only eight months ago, gave a series of proposals and measures, so that today, based on all these proposals and measures, we could come up with catastrophic economic indicators in Serbia. I will only give you budget results in March -- 10% of the revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget in March this year is lower than in March last year. The budget deficit is 72 billion, 40% of the planned annual deficit. VAT revenue in March 18% lower than in March 2013. They're facts, they're not the data I invented here. Employment in January was down 1.4% compared to January last year. For the first time in this country's history, we have fewer employees than pensioners. That's the facts. I must say that I support the position of the future prime minister not to reduce pensions, although in this economic situation our solution to this problem is difficult, because these pensions are usually small, that part of the population is hard to live in, and even harder to live in, their children who do not have a job. It is an exact sentence of the prime minister that not only pensioners live in Serbia, but also their children who do not have a job. It is absolutely true and on that side full support of the decision not to reduce pensions. This country's public debt has increased by six billion in these eighteen months. I don't want to defend the previous governments either. Some of my colleagues did it, so let's not waste this little time we have, but those previous governments didn't pay off the social loans. When you realize that 60 billion dollars in debt has been increased, you realize that in this year and a half, what the future prime minister was talking about was happening. The economy I'm going back to isn't the biggest, it's not the only one, but it's a big problem. We need to look at the reality of what Serbia is like today. They asked me in an interview – who is to blame for our condition, Wolf, Dacic, Gilas? I said all three, in that order, because that's the responsibility. Don't knock, it's inappropriate on the street, let alone in parliament. (President: The chairman is in charge of the hall order. Just keep going. I can't react to something I haven't heard. Thank you. So what does the Serbia we live in, where aggression is huge? Who's to blame for this aggression? Was that aggression a few years ago when the DS was in power? Do you today on the streets of Belgrade, New Sad, Nisa have protests of people over the murders that are happening and have you had them before? Is it true that there was an increase in the number of murders compared to several years earlier? Is it true that domestic violence has increased? Is it true that, unfortunately, drugs and all that is sold to our children today is cheaper than ever? These are questions that require an answer. Of course, I don't have specific data, because I don't have access to it. I can only read and listen to people who move around me or read something, but unfortunately, it's reality. The degree of violence is enormous. We're all aware of that. It would be good for people to say, when parties issue statements, when they want to say something to political opponents, to use a slightly different dictionary, rather than a dictionary of hate. What it means is that the DS hates its people and its country. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that you prefer Serbia than we do? He said that just before he was a colleague of Djurisic's. We love Serbia, too. I believe that Mr. Vukic also loves Serbia and wants Serbia the best. Then why do you have words that are not suitable? Then why do you judge before anyone? Then why are you making people think differently? If we had a different dictionary in this home, if every debate we had, at least until this part, looked every day like this part today, I think it would be better in Serbia. I don't think the future prime minister will agree with me on the many things I've said here and that he has different attitudes, which the man has brought out here, but that doesn't mean that personal hatred is necessary, personal attacks to realize that someone is attacking someone. Everyone has a right to their own opinion. Most people have the right to make decisions, but that doesn't mean that the minority is certainly wrong. This is what we should all accept and learn, accepting that once in Serbia, when some other parties were in power, there was also no understanding of the fact I was talking about, but I am holding on to it and I will continue. We live in a country where a Christian Golubovic goes on television and sends messages to our children. I don't know which body came by and said he couldn't do it anymore. That's terrible. It's a man who spent more time in prison than he did at large. Don't be angry, his qualifications, me personally and the DS people are the same as the qualifications that come from the biggest party today. I think we should ask ourselves about it, and I think we should fence those to whom that man is called, because in any case, I don't think I share any value for anyone in this room today, no matter what party he really shares. Let's stop these people from sending messages. Let the Minister of Information and Culture get involved in his business. Come on, Mr. Tasovac, you have the right and the duty to, when some newspapers are shut down, to start again the next day under the same name, not to announce the verdict that they lied about many of us, to initiate a procedure against them, to prevent such things, to hold everyone accountable for the word that has been made, not that this is happening today. Economic solutions, let me talk a little bit about the exposé you've made. We disagree with them. The idea that a large majority should be sold out in Serbia's economy, not to say everything, that foreigners should be brought in to lead, is not something we will accept. You announced the privatisation of Telecom only two and a half years ago, your deputy party president said she would make a living shield, Mrs. Tabakovic, to prevent the sale of Telecom. Now attitudes are different. The sale of many other companies is announced. Some of them need to be sold. That's not controversial, but EPS and some strategic enterprises absolutely don't. If a minority owner comes in and brings in his management, what's the matter with us bringing in our management? Make the conditions in the companies, that they have the salaries they will be given by the one who will be minority or majority owner tomorrow. And in Telecom, you'll get the highest quality managers everywhere. Let them work, give them bonuses. Do it. If you sell these companies, every new owner of that company will look to make a profit, like NIS or as someone else makes it. That means firing people. When you do all that, you'll get a lot of people who've been fired. For these other enterprises in restructuring, try to bring in real managers, but you can't for 100,000 dinars. You won't get it. Whoever runs the EPS tomorrow, if a strategic partner comes in, they won't have that salary. We can do it ourselves, not selling out at this point what's ours. Going out on the stock market, one thing to think about, which is when it has more value. What you need to be aware of, we are all aware of, new technologies reduce the need to hire people. We're all aware of that. It's still going to happen. It is naive to believe that those people who lose their jobs in the public sector, and every new owner will keep the best quality, that is logical, that they will find a job in the private sector. That's not gonna happen. The number of unemployed will increase, as it keeps increasing. The whole world's gonna have to think about what I'm talking about right now because there's just not enough work to do for everyone, whether it's gonna be a week to make room for someone else. These are all the questions others will talk about, not just us in this House. These are things you can't run from. Privatisation is a thing that's been evaluated one way or the other. There were good company privatisations, there were bad company privatisations. We're all aware of that, but this way, as we speak here today, speaks of the privatisation of the state. It's something that really shouldn't be the case in Serbia. I'm glad you rejected your ministers' proposals about pensions, but then the question is, why do you have ministers in the government who have a different concept and approach to this problem? I think it's more logical that you have advisors who will give you some advice, and you accept it or not, and let the ministers do their job as they know it. I have to admit, fortunately, you didn't let them in here, and that's good. You need to understand what a pension is in Serbia today, that it's made by children who don't have a job. It's a huge problem that we all have to work on together. I don't think they should be dealing with demagogues and pay cuts anymore. The German Chancellor has over 20,000 euros in salary, and the average salary in Germany is several thousand euros. I think that people, who do the most responsible jobs in Serbia, should be given real wages and allowed to do their job. If we're going to go to cut wages, I hear a solid tax will be abolished, which is good, we shouldn't have introduced it, then we should cut all salaries that do anything in the state, and the level of the average salary in Serbia, so all of them share fate in Serbia, and ministers, and MPs, as much as they will be. I don't think that's a good concept. We pick the best people, we pay them fair and square. We have to go to the administration, in public enterprises that make 50% of GDP to have the highest quality, and that's why they have to have the right salaries, because they won't come to work with us. No, there will be some individuals, but there won't be a rule. There's a team to be made, not one man. These are all the things that matter. You invest in education, I completely agree with you. Education is the fastest way out of poverty and crisis. Open universities in Serbia. Give these young people who want to study tomorrow at Uzica, Kruševec, there to build a college, a scholarship on a level of twenty-seven thousand dinars. You'll get thousands of young people who live there and like they have a salary and spend it there. When they get a little more from their parents, you'll suddenly get thousands, call employees, spend money there. When they spend money there, those who live here can sell it. Then you start the whole story. I agree the building is very important. She's raising Serbia. Who doesn't know, I really don't know, we all need to know. That's how it was built and it was built. Things are worse today, but it needs to stop the practice of taking credit from some states that then make us their firm without a tender gets a job. I don't think that practice has proved to be good and should be given up on it. We should scholarship kids in elementary schools, where they don't have enough to be good students. It measures to hire ten so for seven not to pay taxes is not enough. The small and medium-sized enterprises have an average of three employees in Serbia. There's a lot more to be done to change things. It's got to start the economy, it's got to come out of this cycle of shut-down. Maybe someone doesn't realize it, maybe someone does, we're shutting down. There's got to be a turnaround and it's got to be the state that's gonna invest. Not national internationalism, but national investment, because now foreign investors in Serbia will not be able to do so. The chances of the 1990s are huge. I don't want to go back to the story of who's to blame. It's over. It's over. Finally, I expect you, since you said it will be 2014 and 2016 first, to write on one white paper the number of employees who will be in Serbia, let's say today 2016. (President: Time, your time is up.) If you fill that out, we'll applaud. If you don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u709	Thank you. You're out of time. The word has the term of office of Alexander Vucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u710	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will try to arrange for all the objections we've had and thank those who have supported. I repeat, for the first time, the programme and the new government's work plan, I would like to respond to those who have talked about threatened minority rights, and have called for cases that the competent state authorities do not know anything about, that this is not even spoken in parliament, but are spoken in other places, and in these places, the competent state authorities do not have such information. It's not true that this government wants to discredit any Bosniak demands. In any case, we will take care of the Bosniaks, as well as the Serbs, as well as the Hungarians, as well as all other Serbian citizens in the same way. I ask the Bosniaks everywhere they live in Serbia, and in Pazar, Tutina, Sjenica, Prijepolje, Priboj, Varoshi and all other places to show little patience and to see if they have more or less government concerns. About the sentence – choose the Bosniaks whom you want, we will choose a representative, only one reason was why I did not speak to representatives and these Bosniak lists, which are precisely the most difficult accusations against the man who was with us in the coalition, which no argument and no evidence has been supported. If it's possible that you're making such heavy accusations, so many heavy accusations, and there's no evidence of it, no proceedings, no proceedings, no proceedings, then that's something about someone else's responsibility. Some of the ideas will be accepted, Mr Markovic and Mr Krkobibic. As for the Investment Fund, I'm sorry Mr. Krkobic is not here, he won't give up the state or the dinar. It's private investment funds, and that's why we're going to bring in special legal and sublegal acts to regulate the entire area. It will be their money as has already been done in many countries. I also want to thank Mr. Mijatovic, especially where he said – beating himself is the most beautiful thing. The roughest and the hardest. I want to say one thing about pension issues and Mr. Krstic's election and Kori Udovici, who disagreed with me, to tell you openly. They're right, I'm wrong. This is our attempt at all costs to try to make a big turn, as Mr. Gilas said about it, do something in the next six months, then stop and re-analyze our public finances. I want you, Mr. Djurisic, with all due respect, because I wanted no matter what the election result, and I've never hidden it, at least two of your people, the one I greatly value in the government that I run. You see, it's not hard for me to say that and get past these some kind of party frameworks and party trenches. I'm sorry that you had some different ideas and didn't want to cooperate with those you spoke to successfully. I am glad that Boris Tadic, after meeting us in the Serbian Progressive Party, was fair and said the 2007-2009 decisions were devastating. I'll give you the exact information. Mr. Gilas has provided entirely incorrect information. It's completely inaccurate data. Please, next time, feel free to call me, I'll give you the exact money. Both Serbia's and March's revenues. All you had to do was ask. You'd get full information. I don't want to say it's malicious. In fact, the dynamics of income in March is, if I'm not mistaken, Lazara is better than it is in terms of agreement and dynamics with the IMF, four billion more. Otherwise, it's less because we gave back the funds of the deadlines that came in March, not in other months as we did in previous years. It's just a question of knowing. In April, we again expect an increase of some two billion, but certainly within the limits of the expected. It's unexpected for us that there were four billion more than what we did. As far as debts are concerned, I'd like to inform you that it's not true. The question is 4.51 billion, not six billion. It is 6.9 billion between 2008 and 2012. One more thing, in order to know, we are now growing much more, and in the next period, everything will grow because of the interest and loans and guarantees you have given, which have not been seen, which are below the line, for "Srbigas" and for many other companies you have given, and we have to pay off today. So our biggest problem is the structural problem that we are facing today. I am grateful to Mr. Tadic for his confession and for saying so. We don't have a structural problem, today we have cleaner finances than we had two or three years ago. This job, Mr. Krstic, is doing great, and that's why he's in the government. We have much cleaner finances, ask any international expert. Ask the fiscal council people who said today that this reform package is the best Serbia could propose. All professional people in Serbia will tell you that. All professional people. I respect you very much, Mr. Gilas, but the difference between four and a half billion and six billion is one and a half billion. To forget that in that period, seven billion were gone. We're going to be doing more and more every year, because our interest rates are getting bigger, because you've been taking credits from 7.5% to 7.7% every five years, short-term, worst possible, and you're criticizing loans from 2% to 10% of the years we've been taking. That's what we're different about, and that's what people in Serbia need to know. You said Mr. Djurisic - he's not the new government. How is it not the new government? You'll excuse me for using the Syntagma, what kind of political tricks are these? There will be a new government next time if we form, SNS or SPS or I don't know which political party. There are only six of the same ministers here two years ago. You say, the smallest government, not the smallest government, there's only one ministry less. Of course, when social spheres are always the same in society. One ministry, but six ministers less, Mr. Gilas. Because we didn't set up people who didn't have resources to meet their political needs. There's not a single vice president who doesn't have a portfolio in this government. Six ministers down. Why don't you say so? Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. Otherwise, about Kosovo and Metohija and these talks and what the Constitutional Court has assessed as unconstitutional and what is causing the greatest dissatisfaction between the people of Kosovo and Metohija, it seems to me that the people of your party have been doing. That Mr. Vulin knows better, but I'm pretty sure that's what they've been doing. That was done in the negotiations by a man sitting next to you, Mr. Gilas, Borko Stefanovic. I'm not afraid to tell you in your face. As the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija judge about your work and our work, it says that you have received several votes in Kosovo and we have 51% votes. I think they feel it best and understand it better. A lot of things I agree with you. You were talking about murder and drugs. You quoted me from a few months ago. Right, I was wondering five months ago -- how it's possible that our drugs are the cheapest. I must commend our services and our police, drugs are much more expensive today. That's changed in the last two months after the more action we've had, and unfortunately it hasn't changed in the last two months. I'm not gonna say you're wrong about that. That's all that's changed in the last two months, and today it's almost twice as expensive as it was before. They have another problem now. These drug dealers are always connected to the people of the state apparatus, otherwise they wouldn't have any power. That's what we know and it's always been like that. So there are some people who work for them, who keep them informed. It's amazing that there are some that we all know, that we break into their house 10 times and we don't find them in the house 10 times. That means we have a problem, and that's why we're gonna clean it up in our services and in the M.O.P. But you know these people, no one in the house or theirs, as they call it, has ever been in the house for decades. They were little masters. Today, neither the Vavić, nor these new-Belgrades from my 45 block, hold anything in their apartments and houses. That's why more and more wearers, when we find them, what's the name of this club in Belgrade... One night the police broke in, she couldn't find any guests without drugs. Not one. But you know what the trick is? There's only two defendants. That vagina was found at the owner of that club, the coffee shop, I don't know its name. What's our problem with that? We have a terrible problem with them now carrying fewer quantities and saying it's for their own use. But I understand your concern and I understand the concerns of every citizen of this country and I want to tell you that we are taking important, large and significant measures and that we are going to continue this fight. I didn't tell you about these financial positions right now we have a 1.1 billion cash position. So, incomparably better condition than we had two years ago. But bad, terrible bad condition, it's not controversial. Terriblely bad, that's why we're talking about taking action. As far as the Nish police are concerned, it's true that we haven't had a chief in four or five years. We've set up the chief and you can see that the big changes have occurred. He's still in trouble. There are still people in Nis who co-operate with drug dealers and those who inform them about the actions that are going on, so they tell them, when thunder starts with a clear association to action "Thunder" etc., and that, exactly the time, places and everything else. That's what our people need to know. It can't be a secret. One of them was taken in by these cops. We establish and watch how and how it will be done with others. As for the visit to Parliament, not to visit parliament, but to participate in Parliament's work, I think that in the previous period, especially Mr Dacic, but everyone else, we have made one different practice and, more often, we have stayed in parliament and answered the question. I don't think it's ever been that kind of practice in our institutions. You said about Kristian Golubovic, I've never seen a man, but I've seen one political intention of some to attribute him to one of us, and as you speak, in this system and under this authority he's got 14 years in prison for a few grams of heroin because he's a multiple returnee and it's understood that the judge's decision is in accordance with the law. But now he's got 14 years in prison. He didn't get it two or three or four years ago. Another thing that you're essentially right about, even though not in numbers, it's not hard for me to say, it's about violence and aggression on the streets. That is our big problem. But no one's helping us as a country. They're all getting away from us. I invite you to help us with that. I'll tell you what I'm looking for and what I'm asking the media for, and you can't get it because everyone's just waiting to say something bad about us as a state. Do you know what we seized yesterday, what arsenal of weapons at the Red Star-Partizan game? After seeing - unheard of, the police searched Partizan and Star etc. This – unheard of is not found on the hypodromic but found in the stadium, which means two stands were found the following things – 27 knives, 14 axes, a total of 420 rods taken from different types, taken from a total of 396 torches, 315 smoke bombs. I'm just asking you, when is someone going to say that the competent state authorities are doing their job well yesterday? There was almost no incident. No one got hurt. I've given you six or nine guns, don't hold my word, and double the replicas of the gun. One was found in official toilet rooms. It was supposed to be delivered through the little toilet window and used. Of course, the police learned it through their methods and tracking and listening to the face from the crime scene. Do you have any papers today that said the police did their job well? No, assaulting the police. Unheard of, you asked someone from Star or Partizan what was in the bag. That's our problem. About solving murders. That's why I said you were absolutely right, but not in numbers. We have the largest number of murders solved in Serbia's history. The largest number solved. What someone commits, they have never resolved such serious crimes more quickly and again. I'm talking about percentage. But the problem is it's a huge number of serious crimes. What do we tell people in Nis? A boy who hasn't been trampled by an ant since he was 18 or 19 years old has been killed. The killer was arrested immediately. What else could we have done? The killer was arrested immediately. The killer was immediately processed. I understand the anger of people who don't know what they're going to do because they're afraid that their children won't get hurt like that. But the state has done everything it can. Maybe we're all guilty together because we haven't changed the mentality of the people, because we haven't acted differently in the media, and because, as you say, we've spread hate too much and we've spread aggression too much. In this sense, the work that the competent state authorities are responding to is doing it better than ever, and the numbers are unequivocally confirming it. About the manager and the pay. We agree and hope that you will support our legislative proposal when it appears in the National Assembly with these and bonuses because we think it is necessary to find the best possible managers for our public enterprises. Also, around the great world powers, I think you were joking. I think you were joking because you know well that no one talks to me like that, and here all the ambassadors and they know well that they can't talk to me like that, and no one would ever dare think to tell me who's going to be the minister and who won't. But I'm sure Mr. Gilas knew that, too, but well, it's a political game, so it's okay to say it. You're talking about the sale, Mr. Gilas, I said, and I think you think it's a good thing we have a minority partner in the EPS, but that means it's our house, our company, no one thinks it's a majority action package. As for Telecom, and how you now remembered that it shouldn't be sold, and three years ago you sold it and you sold it for 1.2 billion, and I'm telling you now -- we're going to, when we're less, get 1.5 billion, so just explain to me what mathematics is. If there is someone in Serbia to tell me that 1.2 billion more than 1.5 billion or that today is a more favourable moment economically or that Telecom is worth more, I will tell you that it is not possible. It is a more favourable moment because the government has made such an international and political environment and greater integrity and greater influence of the government. There's one more thing. We will wait for the Slovenian Telecom to be sold, we will not go before then, so that only then would the purchase of Serbia's Telecom have special significance and, I would say, could lead to the most possible price. But I just don't understand these different arches, how sometimes they can, and sometimes they can't, even for bigger money. As for the bankruptcy of Mr. Gasic, Mr. Rodic, it is true, the Ministry of Defence is the third minister, but the Ministry of Defence works well, works well, a healthy, secure and stable system. And frequent changes and rare changes, or damage to that system. This system is perfecting, progressing, and you will hardly find any better system in our country than the defense system. As for energy and the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, my decision was to run traffic, infrastructure and construction, and energy and mining Mr. Aleksandar Antic. It was my decision that neither of them agreed easily. That was my suggestion, and now I'm going to try to explain why. Because I can name the legs of the important thing that Zorana did first of all, I apologize to Mr Antić, it is shorter in this place than the introduction of social maps for the first time for electricity, gas and heat, all the legislation for renewable sources, the amended Energy Act, many other things, especially about the corporateisation of the EPS in which we can now finally go, ratification of contract signing agreements with Canadians, Italians, etc. Why did I suggest that? That's what I suggested, and I'm sure you would suggest it at your firm, Mr. Gilas, and I suggested it because I think it's best for Serbia. I think it'd be good. As you know, in the context of traffic and infrastructure, there are a large number of businesses, from roads to corridors to many others. There have been the same people for decades, not decades, decades. I wanted someone who had enormous energy, someone who had enormous power, like I think Zoran has, to start changing things about how she was going to change things in energy. I think that in energy the system is already set up and that Mr. Antić will come across, with many problems, especially in RTB, especially in Resavica, not with small problems in Kolubara and Kostolc, in Obrenovac, but also on a system where there are legitimate frameworks in which it is possible to behave differently today. Here's what I need, she'll forgive me for saying it, a bulldozer who'd put a lot of things in order, and that's why it was my choice. No one else asked me, no one agreed with it, and the argument why Sasha and Zoran accepted it was because I told them – do you really want me to choose the government I want and what I think will work best, or are you all going to have a fountain of wishes and say who, what, where does he want to be? Srdjan Verbic is here. I've never seen him in my life. But what he sent me, the Minister of Education and Education, it was an extraordinary text, these are extraordinary ideas. Then I studied the biography, studied everything. His ideas are closest to the LDP, so I interpreted it, I didn't even talk to him about it, from his point of view. What do I care? What do I care if his ideas for healthy education are remarkable, if it will contribute to Serbia's progress and reforms? I don't have a problem. What? That we don't need any more SNS members on the school board somewhere? You know I don't care about that. That was motive, I was doing it. It's not Zoran's fault, it's not Sasha's fault, it's not Srdjan's fault, it's not anybody's fault, it's my fault. I'm responsible for this because I wanted these people to have new energy. Besides, in Atlanta, at the Coca-Cola headquarters, I learned that there, they change 15% of their staff every year because new energy is needed because changes are needed. That's why I told you, there's one thing you're right about, but you're criticizing it, and that's what I'm boasting about. Is there going to be a change? It will be. I'll tell you in advance. I don't know what kind, but it'll be safe. Because we're going to have passing times, not government -- live government, live our vehicles, live our bows, purse and secretary, you don't have to do anything for four years. Of course there will be changes. In order not to abuse more time, I will not answer until the end, in the end I will address the National Assembly once again, I want to tell you – you are welcome to the Serbian Government always, as guests, to ask, to get all the information, to get all the accurate information, to talk to you, to accept good ideas, to you and to all, we want to tell you that things are really standing, because I am sure to the common forces, to work together, to make Serbia a much better place to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u711	Right on the line, MP Zoran Babic, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u712	The right to a replica based on the mention of the largest parliamentary group and the largest party. For me and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is a clear and acceptable statement by the SNS. How else do we interpret a statement, a statement - we don't need elections, what do we need elections, what do we need election will for, running away from election will? How to interpret rather than - lack of respect, lack of love and escape from the citizens of Serbia. For SNS, the opinion of Serbian citizens is sacred. Setting legitimacy to today's prime minister and this government of the Republic of Serbia who will be voted is also a lack of respect and love for those citizens who, I will remind you, have almost 50% supported Alexander Vukic and the SNS. A lot of data here has been given to the poor, poorly interpreted, and there has been no ordinary "excuse" behind that data. In this National Assembly, you've told Mr. Wolfe quite nicely that the numbers unequivocally confirm everything. We listened here that there was no fight against crime and corruption and that no indictments were confirmed and that it was not filed, and then when a confirmation came from the Special Court of Organized Crime that 180 indictments were filed and confirmed by the person who said those words, no ordinary "excuse" came. It is not a problem and it is no shame in Serbia to be poor, it should be dignified. I'm proud, if the firm is Mayor Kruševec's recent mayor, at a time when the mayor, and the mayor is two years old, went bankrupt. It's not good, but it happens to a lot of people. There's a difference between the Kruševac Mayor's firm that went bankrupt and the other mayor's company, while 39 billion dinars made during the mayor's mayorship... (President: Time.) That's the difference between our policies, that's the difference between SNS, that's the value of all these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u713	Mr. Stefanovic signed up before you did. If Mr. Stefanovic agrees, I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u714	As for Mr. Vukic, I think it's a good thing we're talking like this, no matter what takes two minutes, these are some arguments without hard words. You, Mr. Granny, when you answer, you confirm everything the opposite of that. I really don't understand what that means whose company it is hundreds of times, why are you talking about it here? Who hates whom, who has annulled the electoral will? I understand you can be nervous, you won't be a minister, the president of the assembly here, a little... (President: Mr Gilas, the Rules of Procedure are prohibited from addressing the MP directly. Let's introduce that tone. I can disagree with Mr. Wolfie on 80% of things, but it's an important way of saying something. I'm a new man in this House and I appeal to keep that level constant. The man disagreed with me in 80% of things, but he spoke in some way that anyone who listened could accept for and against. I don't have time to answer everything, but I'm just going to give you the next piece of information from the Ministry of Finance's website, not wanting to burden you with that. So the deficit from the beginning of the year is 38 billion dinars. It's bigger in this quarter than in 2012, when the parliament said the state was facing bankruptcy by 200m euros. That's the facts. That Mr. Krstic can confirm. Like the fact that the number of employees has been reduced. I'm just warning you, if you go with this concept, what's it gonna come to? I'll tell you right away, Mr. Future Prime Minister, if you propose a law in which we can get the best management, that people do jobs, you'll have the support of this party for that. Don't worry about it at all. For these other things, I really wouldn't say, I don't want to take time away from the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u715	I'd just like to ask Mr. Ugljanin, on what grounds is the right to the replication? (Suleyman Ugljanin, from the post: Prime Minister. ) At no point did he mention you in a negative context, but, here, here you go this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u716	My speech was meant to introduce the new government to a situation that was down there, and I cited some facts. I didn't go into the details, but the prime minister said in his statement that there was no basis for it. There are procedures before the court, that's what this is about. I don't want to bother you right now, but if you want me to give the facts, I've talked to the competent ministers both in Cvetkovic's government and in this government, and I've started that story with you, Mr. Vukic, but we haven't finished it. Therefore, this is nothing new. If we're talking about the government, I bring problems and I draw the government's attention to these problems and I talk about those things that aren't pretty. We don't just have to talk about nice things. If we vote for the government and candidates of the government, we should say what we think of them. For everything I say and what I say today, there are facts. Maybe in the second part of the session, I'll prepare the facts, and I'll take them out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u717	The word has been made by Parliament MP Balint Pastor, as president of the Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u718	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Future Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the future ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say immediately in the first sentence that SVM MPs will vote for the election of the government of Mr. Vukic. We are very pleased that for the first time in a long time, we have heard the exposure that is a comprehensive plan and programme of the future government of the Republic of Serbia, which is not only a form, but a real programme with the most concrete measures for the next four years. This is one of the reasons why our MPs will vote today for the election of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia. The second reason is that we are immediately after the opening of the Republic's early elections courageously, frankly and openly said that our intention is that, in the event of the SVM's good election results, we will be a partner to the party who will undoubtedly win the most votes and who will undoubtedly be in a position to form a new government, which is SNS. It took courage for those sentences, but I think courage and honesty are worth it. I wouldn't use the time to praise my own party right now, but I want to praise the voters because we got 75,294 votes, and that's 10% more than we got in 2012. That is why I want to thank all the citizens who have shown us confidence and who have supported our intentions and our programming. We are a parliamentary group that has doubled the number of MPs since 2007, thanks to the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in all the elections so far since 2007, we have performed independently in the elections, because we thought it was the most honest thing. We believe that we should contribute, as far as possible, to building one, to use the syntagma that the future prime minister has said very often here in the National Assembly, and we said it for the first time in 2012, which was, moreover, our electoral slogan, which is – normal, decent Serbia. We want to work on it. We want to be partners in achieving this very simple goal. We believe that politicians in Serbia should finally beautify courage, honesty and openness. What we can offer is seriousness and consistency. We signed a coalition agreement with the SNS this morning. Not because we don't trust our future partners, but, you know, we Hungarians are a little tough, formalists, we like to put on a paper of common intentions, and we like to publish it so the citizens know why we're going to support this government. Those aren't functions. For the sake of the public, I would also like to say here in parliament, and not just in some statements, that we did not seek any ministerial post, not one vice-presidential post, not because we are running away from responsibility, but because we believe that it is not fair when one party received a half-seat majority of the voters of the Republic of Serbia. But we're going to have state secretaries in those resolutions that we said last week, just to show and prove that we want to take part in our responsibility and that we want to be part of the team that's going to implement this program that we've heard and that's full of no popular measures. We will assume part of the responsibility in accordance with our size or according to the support we received from the citizens in the March 16th elections. In previous years, we have worked well together for the past two years, no matter what we were one opposition parliamentary group. I'd like to mention only two concrete things, two common achievements. The first refers to the reduction of the limit in the so-called so-called ". petty thefts. I think it's important for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, the programming definition that we managed to implement in the previous term is to make, here in the National Assembly of Decisions, or declarations more precisely, condemn acts against the civilian Hungarian population in 1944 and 1945. This merit should be attributed to the SNS with which we jointly submitted this document, but certainly on this subject, in addition to the name of Mr. Vukic, the previous prime minister, Mr. Dacic and, of course, the President of the Republic, Mr. Nikolic should be mentioned. If that's how we co-operated, and we succeeded in last term to realize these two crucial things, and there were others, then I am convinced that we will be able to continue this cooperation more effectively and efficiently when we will be partners in the common government. We agreed very quickly in the last few weeks. We were a party that did not arrive at these talks, primarily with a list of functions and wishes, but with a list of programming definitions for which we wanted them to be acceptable, or acceptable to the SNS, or all parties that would make up the future government of the Republic of Serbia. I'd split those priorities into three groups. The first concerns programme objectives common to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of national or geographical membership. There are issues related to agriculture, social topics, capital investments, infrastructure development, raising the level of services in health, etc. The second group refers to specific minority topics. It is very important that the prime minister also said in his exposé that among the first legislative proposals to arrive at the National Assembly there would be a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on National Councils, so that elections for national councils could be held in the shortest period of time, due to the simple fact that these very significant bodies of minority self-government mandates stand out in July of the current year. But one more thing the prime minister said and it's the same for us, it's another amendment to the National Council Act by the end of the year. In order to respect, on the one hand, the Constitutional Court's decision that we must respect, regardless of our subjective thinking regarding the decision and other decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. The amendments would, on the one hand, respect that decision and, on the other hand, allow it to reshape certain provisions. These changes do not lower the level of minority rights of members of national minorities, as this would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The third group of issues concerns Vojvodina, the position of the AP Vojvodina. I don't want to talk about specific issues. I don't want to talk about specific programming definitions because this agreement of ours is going to be available to the public tomorrow. I think we can all be proud that we have reached an agreement and agreement on these programming definitions. As far as functions are concerned, I'd like to say one more thing, since there's been a lot of speculation, not the most well-intentioned, about public enterprises. I hope no one is serious, that no one in this country really thinks that the SVM will be a party that will look for directorial posts or places on boards, in public enterprises. We never asked for it, we're not looking for it now, we're not looking for it in the future. But one thing matters. In the past 25 years, almost nothing has happened, or at least these aspirations have led to some more serious results in the employment of members of national minorities in the public sector. I mean courts and public prosecutors and police and public enterprises, big public systems. According to our Constitution, employment in the public sector should take care of the national structure and the proper representation of members of national minorities. We simply want to achieve that, for example, in the post office of Elektroprivred Serbia, in a local, people with whom citizens, members of national minorities, can communicate in the native language. I don't think that's much, it's in line with our highest legal act and we can't do that unless we're part of the system and that's why we want to think about these public enterprises. We haven't asked for a single function in these public enterprises, nor do we think of doing so. We want to make a modest professional contribution to improving the atmosphere in Serbia, realising these programme definitions. I would like to say that we are very happy that the future prime minister also mentioned deadlines related to achieving certain objectives from the exposé. We know exactly what proposals, the laws will arrive in the coming months. We have repeatedly pointed out in previous years that the government is obliged to deliver a legislative plan to the National Assembly. It's never done, and now we've learned from the exposé at least for the next period, by the end of the year when what can be expected. There's a lot of tiny things. These things are small for the state, but they are extremely important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and related to agriculture, and to social protection, and related to some other spheres or topics. I will not mention it now, but I am sure that we will succeed in the next term of office to discuss these issues not only because we have already done so, but also to solve these problems that are significant. At first glance, they seem to be not the most important, for the government of the Republic of Serbia, but they are also important to the citizens, and should therefore be important to the government of the Republic of Serbia. At the very end of my presentation, I'd like to say two things. The first thing is that so far there has been practice that the new government is automatically withdrawing all proposals for the laws of the previous government. I think that practice should stop and that the National Assembly could work right after the first day of the festival. The most well-intentioned proposal is that the procedures do not withdraw at least those draft laws which are indisputable, which are technical in nature and those proposed by law relating to the validation of international agreements, because there should be continuity there. If these agreements are initialled and signed afterwards. If they're in congregation procedure, I don't think there's any reason for their withdrawal from the procedure. The National Assembly could at the next session confirm the international agreements immediately after the first day of the festival. In the end, I want to wish for the success of all future members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to point out those members of the future government who are going to have the hardest job for us. I'm not going to mention the economic sphere here, because it's absolutely the most complicated. I want to wish for success next to the Prime Minister and Mrs. Korri Udovicki. It will also include minority rights, and we are ready to help and be constructive. I want to wish for good co-operation with us and a lot of success today, more colleagues from Snezani Bogosavljević Boskovic. You can always count on us. And Mr. Srdjan Verbić, since education is of great importance for us and we are ready to co-operate, we will continue our cooperation with Mr. Tasovac on issues of culture and information. Mr. Vukic, thank you for your serious approach and I want a lot of success with the new government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u719	The word has a folk MP Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u720	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, candidates for the President and members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is an extraordinary honor and pleasure to have the opportunity to hear today's work plan for the future government of Serbia, and we have also been given the opportunity to get to know your biographies in more detail and see who it will be, not only will I say lead the resolutions, but who will be responsible for what. At first, I would like to stress immediately that the Socialist Party of Serbia will vote and support the government of Serbia, by the fact that our representatives who are truly extremely high-quality people, as well as other candidates for the Serbian government, will participate actively in the government, we hope that this will be so and that we will vote in favour of this programme presented by the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, and for what each of our people will do in the portfolios. It would point out that today, the exposés we have heard, is indeed a new approach to the formation of the Serbian government. If I'm not mistaken, this is the 13th consecutive Serbian government since 1990. I would call it not the Government of National Rescue, but the Government of National Unity. After all, the results showed convincingly. Here, a congregation majority has already been formed in the congregation, which has a two - thirds majority in the congregation, and we have received recognition for what we have done in the past two years, and it has not been easy. A new time has now come to Serbia at the same time. This is no longer a referendum time for saying "yes" or "against". So, we did not just plead out whether we are for Europe or against Europe, whether we are to solve the Kosovo issue or to put off indefinitely, because we no longer have time. I would say that this is the concept of the new government and the new programme of government work sees as one answer, one comprehensive answer to the key issue in Serbia that interests the citizens of Serbia most, and that is what we are going to do and how we are going to do and what we are going to produce, that is crucial. So, to start Serbia's economy, and therefore the prime minister of the government, Mr. Vukic, put the focus of his Exposé in detail on economic issues. Unfortunately, in the presentations of some of my distinguished colleagues from opposition MPs, I saw a fear, a fear of what would happen if some reformed determined moves were made. I would translate that into a national language and I would say that it is fear and ignorance of Serbia's authenticity, such as Serbia, so in 2014. The Serbian government's policy cannot be run from Belgrade, from party headquarters, it cannot be run even as some previous governments have conducted at government phone sessions, but rather it has been conducted as the protocol was introduced in the former government for the past two years, which is that serious issues are seriously discussed, that the Serbian government's policy is being considered in the Germanic building, not on the phone and not on the party lines. It is a new protocol that we will certainly support, and most of it is supported by Serbian citizens. I have already said that this is no longer a time when we are afraid of making decisive moves, because these are just the vice president of the technical government, our President Dacic and future Prime Minister Mr Vukic have shown on behalf of the whole of Serbia that they have the determination to take responsibility for Serbia's historic problems. These were Kosovo issues and this was the way to Europe and I express my satisfaction that Mr. Vukic said he would take all responsibility for the continuation of the Brussels Agreements. As far as the SPS is concerned, it has indeed proven its capacities and therefore we are extremely pleased and thank you for the confidence that we have been shown as coalition partners to lead three extremely important resolutions, namely that our candidates for the members of the government lead the portfolio. It is a matter of agriculture and human protection, energy and mining and foreign policy. Key political decisions in the 21st century and key conflicts as we already see in the geopolitical environment are about energy issues, the issue of food production and we now have floods, emergency situations in Serbia, and we are really going to have to deal with these extraordinary circumstances, and so Serbia is actively going to the regional and European and international political scene and is already leading to a global policy. So, Serbia is welcome and Serbia is good news and in Brussels and our representatives are respected as equal partners and politicians who keep their promises, who carefully weigh what they can promise on behalf of Serbia and what they can do, but who lead a peaceful constructive policy in the region. Indeed, Serbia's ambition to become what it is is a place, and this is a European modern modern country. The government's goal is to focus, not on fulfilling some political ambitions, but on strengthening Serbia's state and that should be the focus of this reform policy. So modern, modern, reform state of Serbia. We need to strengthen, I see Mr. Vukic's determination here, and in the first place, the most important place, we need to put the interest of the state of Serbia. This is also, as he himself said, one contract with the people of Serbia in such a way that all ministers, regardless of their truly impressive working biographies, will at all times be held accountable for what they have done or for what they have failed to do or for what they have not done well. It is a new protocol in the Serbian government and indeed the first man of the Serbian government, has the legitimacy to carry out, after he received support in the elections. I also really commend one newspaper for setting concrete deadlines. You know that the European Union is engaged in building a strategy by 2020. In today's Expoze, we have heard concrete deadlines and short-term, medium-term and long-term. So this is the question that today every citizen and every Serbian citizen is interested in, where he and his family will be both 2016 and 2017 and 2020. Also, since we are in this assembly building, I think that we will also continue to strengthen the institutions of the Assembly and, in this sense, Mr Vukic has already made a political proposal, which is to strengthen the democracy of the Serbian Parliament, that even that party that has gained legitimacy, manages these extremely significant legislative bodies, that as many political actors who have not received such significant support are included in the supervisory function. We have a joint work before us, and we will see all the members of the future government on committees, and there it is the most qualitative and the most intense way of working and discussing serious politics and problems, as well as in the tide. We have a congregation majority, but it's very important to strengthen that supervisory function, and I really see signs of great goodwill in that direction. I would also say that this government at the same time, and we heard that in today's exhibition of Prime Ministers Mr. Vukic, is calling for a change in the culture of work, and I would say a culture of work and a culture of life in Serbia. So, let's all make one contribution. We at the SPS may well know, in fact, all of us, after all, in some years and we're all a little bit of the children of communism and socialism, that the basic problem in the former socialist system was that citizens no longer had the motivation to support the system. So, I think that this ruling structure and these people will succeed each and every one of its members to travel to Serbia, from north to south, from east to west, to talk to citizens, to motivate them, and to simply carry them, and to government, and politicians, and local officials in local self-government, but also citizens for part of the government and part of the event. It is also extremely important to affirm finally what is the largest political capital in Serbia. These are human resources and this is knowledge and education, because both the EU and all world trends show that the knowledge economy is the best result. So, we're all on a nonstop, so to speak, before the threat of quitting, before we're threatened that one day we might have to try our chances on the labour market again, and that's why it takes a nonstop to give maximum in our jobs and simply not to be put to sleep and to realize that the state no longer cares about anyone from the cradle to the grave, but simply to perfect and to build up our knowledge for the rest of our lives. I think that both legally and institutionally, there is a wide range of room in the ministry for such a species, so to speak, of civil culture to be increasingly strengthened. I would remind my distinguished opposition colleagues that in 2007, after a mass wave of privatisation, Serbia had one surplus. So the budget had a surplus. In 2014, before that and the previous government and previous government, so since 2007, they have missed one historic chance, that for those factories that we may have sold out, and now there is a list of controversial privatisations, that we are responsible, but also to figure out how from that situation we will control public finances, and we really see this as a major challenge for creators and financial and economic policies. Mr. Vukic has already mentioned the numbers they fear at the same time. Perhaps one figure of 7.5 billion euros speaks more than a thousand different words and various explanations as to why something was done, why something was not done. But it's really good that we finally speak in an economic dictionary in Serbia, not to compete in lawless politicisation, but to sit down to work, to agree and measure carefully every item in the budget, because each item in the Serbian budget means one human right - whether pensioners will be threatened, whether people with disabilities will be threatened, whether children will have free textbooks. That's where we tried to share these free textbooks as much as possible. So, to strengthen people in these situations of unemployment or unemployment, let me put it that way. But that's also what I like to point out, our workers when they go abroad really show up as valuable people, like people who can fit into the market economy, our gastarbaters. Perhaps we should hear a little more about how difficult it is to achieve this high degree, for us a high degree, minimum wage and minimum labour prices in the west. So, I think there's one big, one serious job in front of this government. We will actively co-operate as an institution of the Assembly and as MPs. Every member of the law will be carefully discussed and I think we will all be in a joint job that will really enable Serbia to be in the XXI century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u721	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary group or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering, we are moving on to the list of registered speakers. The People's Messenger Petar Petrovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u722	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Future Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the future ministers, I will not be long in my presentation. Otherwise, the time of the parliamentary group at his disposal isn't that long, but I'm going to make sure I don't take full advantage of it. I would like to begin by repeating what our ambassador, Dragan Markovic, said at the beginning, that we would support the election of the future prime minister and members of his cabinets. We have listened to the plan and the work programmes, or, as already European, to the exposés of the new government, we can criticise or add something, etc., but according to us from JS, the plan and the programme is put together realistically and we think that this future government, headed by Prime Minister Mr. Vukic, has both the capacity and the strength and the will and the determination and the knowledge that what is being drawn here, is envisaged and that it is armed with many things that he will do. We particularly welcome the fact that the emphasis of the work plan is placed on the economy and on agriculture, because there are new values being created, there is a surplus value that needs to bring money from where these others will be financed, and education, and health care, and culture, and sport and not to list any further. What we welcome is this new possibility, i.e. it will be incorporated into the law on the reduction of wages by me in the public sector by 10%, but here I have, Mr. Prime Minister, a suggestion. It's not the same thing when 10% is cut to whoever has 350,000 dinars of salary and who has 70,000 dinars of pay, so I suggest you look at the salaries of all the users of the budget money, start with many regulatory bodies, through certain agencies, and make some kind of pay grade, that for a similar or the same job, you have similar, if not the same salary. I can't be the director of some agency, I'm not going to apostrophe some of those budget users right now because I'm sure I'm going to be resented, and I know very reliably that these directors and their associates with their work have a salary of 250,000 to 400,000 dinars of salary, and top surgeons at clinical centres have maybe 150,000 or 170,000 dinars of salary. I'm sorry, but my brain can't accept that. We in the JS are asking to sort of resist it, because it's the users of the money from the same budget. The savings should be there. As Prime Minister, to say to the Prime Minister, what you have particularly touched my heart is what you have said you will try, you and your cabinet, to keep Serbia proud, to keep Serbia worthy, that Serbia cannot, as so far, all of us, step forward, but simply be what we were at the beginning of the HH century and all of us until the middle of that century, a country that was recognised not only in Europe, but also on other continents in the world. In the end, I want to give you my congratulations, since I'm sure you'll be chosen by the great majority. Know that you will be criticised for many things, because many difficulties are ahead of you to solve, and we from JS tell you – be determined and consistent in implementing reforms. That's what the citizens of Serbia expect of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u723	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u724	Thank you very much. A historic session, in any case, in which we have heard the longest exposés in Serbian history, both modern and modern, and this will surely be remembered by the prime minister who said it himself, the length of the exposé. Of course, that does not mean that this exposure was something that merits special attention. Namely, there was too much demagogy, too much pathetic, too much wisdom, a little moaning over fate and a difficult situation, general places and mere statistics. Of course, the problem is that there's a bad sound here, at least I don't hear it, when someone's talking quietly, and we didn't have a text of exposé, so I have no intention of commenting on it right now. Here, the years ahead of us are the mandates of this government, so we'll be able to comment on what's coming out of this exposé. I will ask questions concerning both the previous period and the future, as the prime minister himself dealt with previous governments. First, let me remind you that the previous government was the Government of Ivica Dacic in which Aleksandar Vukic was the first Deputy Prime Minister. So it was the previous government, which lasted almost two years. It's important because someone who listened to the prime minister would think that this is the first time that Mr. Vukic is a member of a government, which is not the first time, but at least the third time, as I remember. What has been repeated many times is that this is the first time that the people rule, that the government was won by the people without being made by tycoons. It is a serious insult to many people who were involved in politics in this country and were ministers in various governments, but my question for the prime minister was – was the tycoon government from 1998, when he was the minister of information, when he got an apartment before the bombing, when various ugly things were happening in this country? Was that government a tycoon government? Large pensions and salaries that were started without grounds in late 2008 or early, I agree, it is a major failure of the government. There have been many major failures, but my question is – what has been done to the team in the last two years? Why have these salaries and pensions not otherwise seen and achieved savings in the past 18 months? It doesn't start now that third chance someone mentioned, it started 18 months ago. You've solved your problems, you say. What, "Sartida", FAP, "Icarbus" with this one bus that won as the best bus at the car fair where the only bus was? Of course he had to win? What about IMT, what about Jumko? Solid tax is abolished. That's good. I agree that public spending must be reduced. I think it's 10% smaller, that it's obvious that public spending has to be reduced more. Is it enough just to cut public sector wages by 10%? That's a question, but since I have a little time, I couldn't talk about it much. The office for a quick answer has been mentioned again. To remind you, you founded it a year ago, last May, a office for the Serbian government's quick response was established, it didn't start working. What about 4.5 billion, it was six, so we got the information 4.5 billion new jobs for these two years? Where did the money go? It is not fair to call to the government for information, but should be known by citizens of Serbia, not by them or by former members of the government. The question is, what about that famous rescue agreement with Ethyhad? You yourself promised as prime minister that we would find out on March 16th. Today is April 27th, the day of the former SRJ. So it's been over a month and a half, and we didn't get anything. Finally, the composition of the new government has been announced as expert. I see two experts here. With one, I cooperated with the lady. The other gentleman and I had some contacts, too. There are a few other good people, all the other people who are politicians of general practice, and that's normal. The largest number of governments in the world are like that and there's no story, but it's far from expert. At the very end, I must say one unpleasant thing, the public is speaking, and in the case files of the Special Court in the trial of the Zemun clan, it is mentioned that one of your candidates for the minister, who is now sitting next to you, was an associate of the Zemun clan. I'm not saying that, I just think it's worth the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u725	Time. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u726	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure, members of 106 and 107 and dignity, as well as a member of 106 who defines that the MP must stick to the subject of the agenda. There were several talks here about the economic situation in the country described in three lines and did not essentially deal with it. I am sorry that someone in this room did not pay attention to the prime minister, with the attention with which the majority MPs listened, but also the citizens of Serbia, and why he did not remember the mandater's sentence that we had to throw out the mirrors and take binoculars into his hands. It is a sentence from the beginning of the exposé, which describes that the SNS, that the prime minister looks to the future, to create a better economic situation for all of our citizens. What separates us is politics, our relationship to politicians separates us. We are prepared and accept a programme of mandates that says – we must change first, first politicians to take away both official cars and journals and boasts of travel around the world, unlike some period when government politicians or former presidents were granted loans to raise various vineyards or I don't know what. In this, the difference between our policies, in this, is the difference between Mr. Vukic's exposés and all previous exposures, in truth, in matter, in everything that these exposures and the functioning of the entire government and Mr. Vukic will bring to the citizens of Serbia in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u727	I'm obliged to tell Ambassador Babic there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about this breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No, thank you.) Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) Can't replica on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u728	Madam President, one thing is repeated here, members 105, 106 and 107. By the way, allow me, I think, and you shouldn't have MPs using the Rules of Procedure's breach institute to replicate. In this case, it wasn't even that, but we had a repeat of some elements of the exposé, completely unnecessary, and we don't quite understand why this is happening, when we've been listening to the same thing for hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u729	You're doing exactly what you're complaining about. Thank you. I ask Members to apply criteria and criteria to all. That'll make my job easier. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u730	In accordance with Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u731	You quoted Article 104, but here you go, maybe another attitude. In general or in any way?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u732	In general. What difference does it make if it's in general or in attitude?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u733	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u734	That's not true. Where did you recognize, except that you insulted the MPs, now just before, where did you recognize that someone had replicated earlier? Who's he replicating to? I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u735	Don't get into the word when the chairman wants to show you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u736	You're breaking in to me. Can you explain to me where the replica was? I order you to allow the MPs to abuse the Rules of Procedure and you have abused him earlier. No one's replicated anyone. You have no right to act so as to applaud here. That's not how you run the assembly session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u737	Okay. You're out of time. I let you say how much you want and I showed democracy, not to make a difference between MPs. Please follow the session. Mr. Babic reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you saw. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: You too have allowed it to replicate. Please don't throw away. I don't want to impose sanctions this time. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected to speak after a fellow farmer from Vrakar, because I consider him one of the smartest farmers and it is a real honor and pleasure to speak after him. When I say the smartest, I mean it, it's in practice and it's shown, because the line is a peasant and a farmer who can get 41,070,579,97 dinar subsidies only over one year.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u739	I'm asking you about the exposé, if you can connect it to the exposé. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u740	And how can I connect to the exposé? Since we've been listening, we're full of demagogy, pathetics, that we're like this, that we're from my fellow farmer. Since I am a farmer myself, I express the fact that this has been done, and there was no agreement on the investment investment of the competent ministry that owned the land. That's why I think it's a real pleasure for some peasant to get some big number from the state. After his performance, you could see that he and his actions, and perhaps even Sundays, were allegedly, one of the merits of finding a tired, broken-down, economically powerless state, abandoned, unfinished, and I would dare say a cartoon from the state. There was the least state in that country. That government was worse than that government. Citizens, with the right of such a state, who were elected by such governments, viewed violence as red tape and often viewed as foreign rather than their own because of such governments. In the government's election in the last quarter of the century, and I'd like this not to be the case, until 2012, it was recognizable that we didn't choose governments, but governments chose the state. Governments had a state and treated the state as if they weren't supposed to rule, as if they were the owners of state and nation. The result was that while everyone in our environment was making a state out of nothing, they made a state out of nothing. In that country, thanks to them, the main product was long. Everyone in that country who was close to such governments wanted to read, but no one wanted to sow and plant. In that country, less was produced and more spent, exported less and more, there were fewer employees in production, and more in the public sector, there was a poor relationship between the number of employees and the number of pensioners. In only four years, 400,000 people have lost their jobs. It's not only that, it's people who fell out of the business chain. Instead of 400,000 employees, they moved to 400,000. There were 400,000 less contributions to health care, pension insurance, etc. That's why we have a pension problem today. The over-indebtedness of the economy, the population and the state, everything was in charge. Unfavourable debt structure, the prime minister already spoke of, short-term debts, short-term loans, high interest rates. Even worse than that, the lack of exports to repay the debt, if that money had just been released through agriculture and the processing industry, than 20 billion, so if we'd lost half, we'd owe ten billion less today. However, this money went directly to consumption, and it did not strengthen our production, but rather the production of goods that came through foreign trade chains to our country. The situation described in the country would be the following. The state was a household in which half of the country was sold, the other half was committed to loans, loans spent, not returned, mechanization outdated, land not modeled, oil missing, and the seed we cooked and ate. There is not enough black paint to paint the state these governments had in the country by 2012. In order to rule the state, this government must first create a state, because the states only have remains. He has to start building on the ground without trying to build and renovate from the chimneys, which they've been trying to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're aware of the seriousness of the moment. Hunger doesn't knock on our door anymore. Due to the results of these governments, by 2012, hunger has recently entered our houses. We need to raise agriculture, and I like that the mandater in his exposé presented the concept of a common European agricultural policy, and to my surprise he even installed what the EU has complemented from 2013 to 2020, which is the support of small farmers of land, their stimulation, the processing work, the processing, the participation of farmers in the processing. What needs to be revived, small and medium-sized agricultural holdings, as the EU also believes they are a chance for new employment in the 21st century. These agricultural holdings should not be eliminated. On the contrary, through vegetables, fruit growing, livestock farming and processing as close as possible to the village, there is a need to find a way to employ the existing rural population, and that is why I support it. Compared to the fact that a part of the population that used to live in the countryside and which is lurking in the suburbs of the crowded industrial dead cities, goes back to the country, to rebuild the processing industry and in this way create out of these 650 thousand landownerships 500 000 that will make up 30,000 euros of social product, which in agriculture, which in processing, is 15 billion, and then we solve our problem. We can serve our debts, and we can all share far more together than we have now. I have to, while I'm here, of course, when the prime minister isn't in charge and the future government is in charge of judging, but he is in charge of creating an ambience for the judiciary to work, telling me if they were going to continue to do more seriously, especially with the representatives of the government, but I've already shown you documentation, which they took 500 thousand euros, those who were mostly dealing with fog reselling, they wouldn't mind, if the people hadn't been the main customers, stimulated, the courts created that they could work impartially and finally bring justice to all of these winners of transition, who were masters of transition, who lived while the people barely survived? For them life was a game, they were players, and the people were toys. Will those who have made three nations of one nation in Serbia be punished: hungry, Bosnian, and naked? Hungry, barefoot, barefoot. If they're not punished by anyone, they'll get the impression that it's not worth working fairly in this country and the whole concept, whatever government comes to, will fall into the water. By redistributing the social wealth of the former government, they made gods of themselves, and they made slaves of the people, and sometimes graves. Lincoln, and this government should remember well, freed the slaves. He said by liberating the slaves: “We need the government of the people of the people for the people. ” It's time for the candidates, Mr. Prime Minister, for you to do the same. The trouble and the trouble is what brought us together here, those of us who will support the government, that Serbia rises from these troubles. Trouble is a chance for courage. The courage that adorned our ancestors. By passing at the entrance every day we can see Emperor Dusan, Karadjordje, Nikola Pasic. We can be proud of our ancestors who are in this state, and perhaps even worse circumstances, making a state. We may be in better shape today, and I think that's the kind of assignment that we're going to choose today. Let me give you a heads-up. You have a rare chance. The young people don't care what authorities are starving under, they want the state, work and bread, Serbia's fields and plums, Serbia's boys, girls, farmers in the field, factory workers. They want us to be worthy of those ancestors who are at the entrance, that you and we in their name, in the name of the people, raise both the state and the people and the flag, that Serbia be a worthy country, and the home of the brave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u741	Zoran Zivkovic or Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, do I not know the order? According to the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Pavicevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u742	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that members of Rules of Procedure 106, 108 and 109 have been injured. Is it okay if I explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u743	Please be decadent. You mean or you're calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u744	Article 106 states that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u745	That's what he was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u746	We found out, or you realized that Mr. Rističević did not stick to the agenda and you warned him of that. However, even after your warning, Mr Risticevic continued to talk about something that was not part of the agenda, and I now refer to Article 108 and Article 109. In Article 108, paragraph 2, the president of the National Assembly said, because of the violation of the session, he can give the measures of warning, confiscation of words or distance from the session, and in article 109, he said, the warning is made to the MP who, despite the warning of the National Assembly president, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u747	On condition that the conditions laid down in Article 106 are met, these two others shall apply. There were no preconditions, since the MP respected my request or notice, however, although I did not give the notice. In the crowd he spoke of governments, historically compared to the exposé of the prime minister and did not say a single name and name, a political party. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. If you insist, parliament will vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Next speaker, Dr. Janko Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u748	The esteemed chairman, a respected prime minister for the new government's composition, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Djurisic said MP Boris Tadic NDS-Together for Serbia-Green Serbia will not support the government's proposal, or the composition of this government. Dear Mr. Vukic, you are now officially the most powerful man in this country, or you will be after 19.00 hours when this parliament elects you as Prime Minister, because you are already the president of the largest political party, the SNS that has an absolute majority in this House. I, nor my fellow MPs, applauded today when you entered, nor interrupted you in applause when you spoke. You can't expect that from us, of course. I'm not gonna whistle at you personally after a year, two or four years if you go with the whistles. You yourself probably estimate that the good part of those who applaud you today is not only applauding you because you are successful in their opinion, but because you are powerful. Probably if they whistle at you one day, they'll whistle at you not because you're going to fail, but because you won't be powerful. It's a reality, Mr. Wolf, a political reality in almost every country. But what I want to tell you is that today you're saying that you're not going to look in the mirror, you want to take your binoculars and look far ahead. I think you saw a good part of the discussion in the mirror after all. Sometimes in a mirror that showed a nearer future, and rarer in a mirror that showed the past. However, because of these words of yours, I would look back on that recent past, or closer to the past, and that is the period since you and the SNS and the SPS are at the head of this country, you have a majority in the Assembly, you have a majority in the government. A good part of the minister was also in the previous government. He's part of them in the new government, too. Mr. Wolfie, along with Mr. Dacic, you've chosen some of the ministers I'm going to list for you right now. You were the selector of Suzana Grubjesic, Mladjana Dinkic, Goran Knezevic, Bratislav Petkovic, Alice Marić, Zarka Obradović, Milutin Mrkonjic, Verice Kalanovic, Milan Bačević, Ivan Mrkić if I have not already mentioned him, Saša Radulovic, Tomislav Jankovic and Branko Ružić. If I counted correctly, it's 13 or 14 people who have profiled the previous two years through a government that was made up of SPS and SNS. Turns out you weren't exactly the best selectionist, because they probably didn't leave because they ran their ministries great. Maybe there are exceptions, people who have left for some other reason. However, I followed their work quite closely during the previous period, and these are my discussions regarding these people. They're on 570 pages. These discussions were harsh, never offensive, and with all those people I welcomed afterwards in the hallway and talked to normally. I didn't have any inconvenience about it. But I must remind you of the work of your ministers who are not in the government. So these past two years, and the EU says we have the worst health care in Europe. You said that in some way today, that we have people waiting for radiation, many don't welcome it, that we have long lines, that we have ruined hospitals, homes of health, etc. You're saying someone should come to health tourism, in the perspective of someone, that it's something that needs to happen in clinical centres, and you have two years of government behind you. Were there any shifts in this area? I don't think so. And I've talked about it a lot, and it's all in these exhibitions. In these exhibitions, there's a story about aflatoxin, a story about a state of justice that's bad for you, too. Justice is still far reaching, you'll agree. Although Mr. Selakovic is a correct man, however, the items are outdated. We had a famous amnesty that we discussed a lot with Mr. Selakovic. I don't think she brought any good. Unless there's a fair state there's none of these things you were talking about, Mr. Wolf. I was also talking about education and the things that you mentioned today, diplomats that don't mean anything, the hyperproduction of doctorate, the master's degree, the problems we had with our little graduation, the big graduation and one of the other ministers. I talked to Mr. Vukic and about the debts, the new credits, the drop in credit ratings and many other things I'm going to keep talking about in the time of the authorised representative, because there were a lot of things that I talked about and unfortunately were bad. I don't think you have the right to make such mistakes anymore, because experiments with people who will come and go and leave us a ruined area in which they have come I don't think it's a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u749	Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u750	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, after the Brussels Agreement, I think there have been circumstances in Serbia for a different way of dealing with the policy and exposé of Prime Minister Vukic here today, I think it shows that in a good way. This exposure is a fair framework for policy-making in the next period, if this government lasts. For us in the opposition, it will be a good proposal because we will be able to follow very clearly what is going on, but for all those who make up the coalition with the Serbian Progressive Party, I think this is the moment when they will vote for very difficult things, because the prime minister here has made it very clear that if by October the second measure of economic policy does not result, it is very likely that they will have to be reduced pensions. That's what you're voting for today. Unless all the provisions of the Labour Act are brought into line with those negotiating this project, that the Labour Act will be voted on because it is very important to improve the economic environment, i.e. the environment that the country has. That's what you vote for, too. I think it's a good idea to open up a debate and beyond what a round of participants are in the debate on these issues, because these are the things that matter to every man in this country. It's an undeniable election result. Its consequence is this debate today, as is uncontested and that a huge number of people have also not gone to elections, and everyone here, like us in Parliament, the people who voted for us, we live and we are life-longly interested in changing things in the country. What's my big concern is that a few things that are completely clear and obviously haven't been done in the past almost two years. What's good is that many of these things in the opening statement were mentioned somewhere by Mr. Vukic. From those notes, I can't see what the idea is. Changing the way she thinks if she's not institutionalized for public life doesn't mean anything. In this case, it's essential decentralisation. I think the finance minister will have one epochal opportunity to come up with a project to decentralisation the tax system. That's what I've talked about many times in and out of parliament. If millions of people in Serbia don't get a chance to decide on public affairs by making a decision in their local communities, in their local self-governments, on the level of income, on the other hand, on the other hand, on what is most important in the smallest environments in which they live, I think we will find it difficult to change the way they think. Otherwise I agree it's an important and good thing. In Serbia, unfortunately, for the past two years, we have seen almost nothing about entering major irrigation projects. That's what I've talked about many times in this assembly. I hope we get answers now. We made some contracts in 2012. Unfortunately, nothing happened. It is an area of public affairs that can economically dramatically move Serbia forward. Energy efficiency, a biomass that I agree was done in the legitimate part of something, but I think we're far from taking advantage of one small percentage of that great potential. I asked here to discuss whether there will be an $800m investment in NIS or not, so the debate in this assembly is not scheduled, although it is also familiar with the former Energy Minister and all those who were in the Committee on Economy and Energy. It's not something that should be a great effort to attract investors from the white world. Those investors are here. We have the legal right to ask that we discuss this with the majority shareholder, Gazprom. "Ipard", which was mentioned here, was two years ago, it took us just over seven or eight months to reach 50m euros in live investment from EU funds. Now we're at zero, so we have to go back to the beginning. Big mistake. There are a few other things I won't talk about here because I have limited time, but what are the reasons why we won't support this government today. The parliamentary group I'm in will be, we think and believe, a serious and fundamental opposition, but a correct participant in all these debates. We are no opposition to our country because this is our country as much as anyone who sits in this House. We'll also think of people who haven't found the need to come out and say their political will. We will fight for a Serbia in which to live well. Everything that is controversial in the past needs to be discussed, and I agree that it should be looked into the future, most of it depends on how this view will primarily be directed. We will very strongly and seriously support that from tomorrow, and I don't know which day after this session we are engaged in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u751	National MP Ivan Karic has 55 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. He doesn't want to use them. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u752	Ladies and gentlemen, the respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mr. Vukicu, the citizens of Serbia, have given you no doubt, have given you the mandate to prepare the new government of Serbia programme, as well as the mandate to propose ministers of the new government. Today we're discussing how many programs you've prepared are good and how good the team you've presented here is. I have three remarks, I think, well founded on the program and composition of the government, and I would be very pleased to hear your comment on all three objections. Note number one, Mr. Vukic said he wrote this exhibit by 5.20 this morning. The exposé, as we all know, contains a government program. It is an important and serious document, and I think that the MPs should have received the text much earlier, no later than two days before this debate, so that we too have a chance to read this text, to do a kind of analysis, and then this debate on the day of the government's formation is much more quality. I would not have understood Mr. Vukic, for any MP who would read that text at 5.20 p.m. on the day when the government is being discussed, let alone for a mandate I expect to have understanding and for some MPs, and I think that everyone should do so, seriously prepare for debates in this assembly. I agree that so far there was no practice of getting exposés much earlier, but I don't think that practice was good. If practice was bad, we should stop with bad practice. My question is, why do you, Mr. Wolf, maintain the continuity of something bad? I hope it's not a matter of unpreparedness for a serious debate over this exposé. The second objection we have here concerns one principle, which I think is the fundamental integral factor of every modern democratic state. It's the principle of rule of law instead of the principle of human rule. In our Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 3 clearly states that the rule of law is one of the basic principles of our Constitution. I think, Mr. Vukic, that you continue to exercise power today, you do not begin, and it is my judgment that during the exercise of power in the past two years, we do not return to the past, and you have personally played the principle of rule of law, and I have to tell you here. I think you've often managed populist mechanisms. It seemed to bother you every middleman between you and the people. They have been forced by the extraordinary qualities of the leader and all of this in my court at the expense of the faceless legal principles concerning the concepts of the rule of law. Today in this assembly, you have addressed many commanding, missionary MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when you have recently ordered that we stay here day and night, "you will buy here", "you will eat breakfast here", "you will spend all day here", etc. I believe that this behavior represents in some way a demeaning and an insult to the dignity of all MPs. If you were a National MP, I believe the President of the National Assembly would give you a warning on the basis of Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Wolf, I don't think that's democracy. The third remark I have is next. I've already said that without the rule of law there is no democracy. But there are two other very important pillars of our democracy in Serbia, which you yourself have damaged over the past two years. You said in your exposé here today that you wanted Serbia a strong middle class. You have proposed and passed a law that directly affects the middle class of Serbia, that is, what remains of that middle class. He can't be poor and poverty can't be a bearer of democracy. It has to be a strong middle layer. But there's another pillar you've damaged. That column refers to freedom of the media. We can read it rarely here, but foreign magazines, such as the German "Frankfurter Allgameine Zeitung" or "Economist", say: "There are serious political pressures on the media in Serbia... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And those pressures are due to foreign investments... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u753	Time is up and I let you quote "Frankfurter Allgameine Zeitung" here to the end, so you've exceeded the time. Thank you. The word is Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u754	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I extend my opinion on behalf of the Party for Democratic Action in connection with Mr. Vukic's exposé, just to explain. Since the Party for Democratic Action is in a joint group with the SDA Sandzak, I feel it is necessary to say that we have an agreement to come forward together on organisational and technical matters in the Assembly, but not on political views. Given the statements made at the expense of Minister Ljajic, this is what I am building on, and these are absolutely not the views of the Party for Democratic Action. In the previous three mandates, I, as the only representative of the Albanians of the Presevo Valley, was part of the opposition, as they wanted all three parliamentary majority. In fact, it was not a problem that I, as well as former and former representatives of Albanians in the People's Assembly of the 1990s, could not be involved in the ruling coalition, but it is very worrying that the role of a legitimate national minority who continues to be in a very unfavourable position has been marginalised to the extreme. In particular, it is a daunting fact that the legitimate representative of Albanians had no effect on the functioning of the Co-ordination Body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, as well as on the government's authority intended for this area, where Albanians make up the majority population, and they were completely marginalised. In addition to the political strategy, the acquisition of cheap political points through folklore political rhetoric, which is used by one part of the local parties in the area, and the central authorities have significantly stimulated the ongoing logic of the boycott of parliamentary elections, by ignoring the only representative in the National Assembly, as well as the team, in my view, through a discriminatory approach to solving very important problems in this area. Today's exposés of Prime Minister Vukic indicate a firm readiness for root socio-economic reforms, as well as for a more responsible minority policy. I hope that the new government will provide a far more serious approach to solving the very difficult, sensitive life problems of Albanians in the Presevo Valley, which are recorded and included in an emergency platform for the affirmation of the rights of Albanians. The document, submitted by the legitimate representatives of Albanians and accepted by the government so far, was necessary because of the failure to implement the 2009 agreement on the principles of reconstruction of the Presevo municipality co-ordination body, Bujanovac, Medvedja. The agreement, signed by representatives of the government, the OSCE ambassadors and MPs from this area, was also necessary because a 2001 federal and republican government programme in order to address the crisis in this area had not previously been reached. Unfortunately, although formally accepted, the document mentioned by the government has not been more seriously considered or its realization has not begun at all, in addition to the known manipulation of the number of Albanians in this area. Arbitrarily appointed President of the Co-ordination Body, who, as the Government's authority, had to realise these important programmes, of course it was inadmissible, hampered to a rather serious extent the overall issue. However, after the talks we had with the President of the Republic of Serbia, after which, and in a brief conversation with the prime minister, Mr Vucic, and the spirit of today's exposure, gives us hope that a more serious approach will still be provided, so that the programmes will finally begin to be more serious, to achieve the basic objectives set in 2001, and they were clear – the economic revitalisation of the area, because we have an area where the unemployment rate is over 80%, then the integration of Albanians into state bodies, all of which should allow one national minority in this area to have an effective participation in public life. It's all that, despite this deep crisis we're in, it's quite possible. (President: You've spent your time with your MP group, thank you. ) Let me just finish by saying that it is necessary for us to go, in an effort for European integration, essentially, not just... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u755	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u756	Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, gentlemen candidates for ministers and prime ministers, I must say at the very beginning that I consider this to be practically the second reconstruction of the same government since 2012, because the parties that were then participating, except for the URS, are practically everything again in the government. In order to positively assess your exposés, I expected you to put at least one word of self-criticism out here and say – what it is that you missed out on these less than two years ago, or what it is you didn't do, and you planned. As an MP, I was here and in July of 2012 for reconstruction and I listened to the epics about the ministers at the time. Unfortunately, it turns out that you're not happy with them yourself and more or less, only a few of them are left and I have to say that I don't understand what they're left with, considering that the result of their work is extremely bad. At the very beginning, I want to point out that I don't know if you're being informed in the right way or if you want to hide what's the fact, but if you want to drive the formula, you have to look at the mirror, and the mirror says that Serbia owed 14.167,000,000 in 31.12.2011, that it owed 14.784,000, and with today it owes 20.507,000,000, which is 5.5 billion more in your term. At the same time, five and a half billion don't get a loan from the Emirates, which means it's even more. It is also important to point out that the foreign exchange savings of the Republic of Serbia in 2000 was less than half a billion, that in July 2012, of these governments that ruled by 2012, you inherited 11 billion euros, that today this savings is not savings, but foreign reserves are below 11 billion and that you defend the unemployment rate by spending foreign reserves. The biggest surprise for me is in fact re-election of Minister Krstic, who from the moment he came to Serbia, the only thing he did, was to impose an impose, because in the first year of last year you increased the VAT by 11%, from 18 to 20. At the same time, you increased the profit tax, and upon the arrival of Minister Krstic we introduce some solid tax on the most educated part of the state and public administration. At the same time, we introduce a tax on computers, even two and a half times bigger than it was, on services, etc. All this would be justified not to say today that in March, tax revenues fell even by 15.7% compared to March 2013. That's the information from the Ministry of Finance's website. I'd like to ask you, if you have time, to look at that site, as well as these debts I said earlier. What's actually an even bigger problem, and I believe the Minister of Economy is going to pay attention to that, is that economic activity is dying. So, VAT as a basic budget charger, that income is reduced, but revenue is reduced based on excise duties. What does that mean? It means that one part of our economy is going to the gray economy, that we're going back in the 1990s, at a time of smuggling, and that no matter how much we don't see it here, it's happening in Serbia today. It's something you have to deal with, and it's something you have to do. Realistically, this government, as the previous government and the one before it, has already reduced pensions. This year's budget envisions an increase in pensions, they said, for pensioners of even twice. Two times 0.5%. If you look at how much inflation is, how small the cost of living is, you'll see that pensions are already actually reduced. It's the same thing with wages. For the first time, we have a decline in living standards, which is the result of poor economic governance, which is the result of dealing with some peripheral things, not concrete things and essentials. What's very interesting is you convince the citizens that you've been raising loans to repay old loans, so we've come from 15 billion to 21 billion, but those six billion that have entered Serbia no one in Serbia can see or feel, to say -- this is a capital project that this government has completed, but you've managed to undo the basic law of physics that says matter is indestructible. The money just disappeared. No segment of life in Serbia is better today. You cut transfers to the Ministry of Agriculture, you cut transfers to local self-government, you cut salaries in the public sector, you identify the entire public sector and that part that's on the budget and that part that's self-income as the same. You plan to cut wages and those who do so in the same public sector, and it is under the circumstances. What's interesting now, and the public doesn't seem to pay enough attention to me, plans are to seriously sell public enterprises, including Telecom, Dunav, Lutrija, part of the EPS, and I don't know what else. According to the 2014 budget projection, you're about two, two and a half billion short. I suppose, Mr Krstic, that when you arrive in the budget, you will put it as a need and will practically have a situation for two years, until July, Serbia will be in charge of almost eight billion euros, which is four times more than the average in earlier years. I remind you, we had about seven or eight billion euros in foreign reserves each year, and now we have 500 million less, but that's why we're going to have about seven or eight billion euros in debts. The central budget deficit in the first three months of 2014 is 78 billion dinars, which is also an extremely large expenditure, as well as a public debt which at the end of March is now 20.5 billion euros, with these billions of euros, or dollars, I suppose was the dollar. What the finance minister said, if we hadn't borrowed that money, we'd have to borrow it. So, with that money, we go to over 21 billion and that's a fact. I think it's also extremely worrying that we have a drop in living standards, which is the current expenditure on growth wages from the budget, according to your budget projection, although public sector employment is legally prohibited. The salaries are frozen, we don't hire in the public sector, and we have an increase in costs based on salary. It's the same metaphysic that we don't understand. How is that possible? How is it possible that, as you said in your exhibition, thanks to the Public Procurement Act, we also saved, by exact budgets, 100 million euros, and you promised six times more? You promised 600m euros in savings only on the basis of the adoption of the law. I am telling you that these 100m euros have not been saved, but are not supplies that are necessary both in health and in education and in the Ministry of Defence and in all other ministries, which are practically impossible for them to do their job adequately. I wish you'd told us what you were planning under the tax reform. The fact is, you can't raise taxes anymore, because you've raised everything to the maximum you could. Twenty percent of the computer tax in this part of Europe nobody has. The 20% VAT can go up to 25%, but what kind of pressure it's going to be on the economy, I can only assume. The exchange rate is holding and you're proud of it, but I'm curious about how much our exports are suffering because of it, and is it enough that only one factory in Serbia works to make our exports grow? If the power went out in the factory, which is the "Fiat", there would be a practical drop in exports, i.e. a drastic increase in the external trade deficit. I'm telling you all of this as an analysis of the situation we're in. The situation is much harder than what appears to you from that chair, much harder than what people who sat with you today can assume. I can't agree with those things you're saying in the sense that this government is the most economical, because this government has the interior minister under which the Emergency Sector is and at the same time gets a minister who will be Minister of Emergency. It's one overlap of jurisdiction that I don't understand how it's going to be implemented. Who will intervene in the event of the flood, whether the Minister of Emergency, whether the Minister of the Interior, or the Assistant Minister of Interior? It's just saying that he's talking about the government being the least she could be is not true. The government could have been even smaller and even more economical. Don't take this as an empty review. This is a criticism of a colleague who, as you said, has introduced an extremely good order into the Ministry of Defence, so that within two years you can change three ministers and that this system continues to move positively and delivers results, but I fear that this principle has not been introduced in other systems and that we are facing problems that will be difficult but extremely difficult to overcome. I'm glad you changed your course in foreign policy, I'm glad you made it crystal clear here that Serbia is committed to European integration. We now understand the government's position on Ukraine's unity. And that was something that was unclear to the citizens of Serbia. So our government is for a single state of Ukraine and I support that attitude. I believe that we are also defending our right to protect our interests in Kosovo and Metohija and that is something that is very good. On the other hand, I would like to mention that your Anti-Corruption Council, the Government's Anti-Corruption Council, has analysed the situation in the judiciary and given a negative opinion. The situation in the judiciary at this point is worse than it was in 2012. Mr Selakovic did not deserve to remain minister in that place. You might have been able to rotate it, move it somewhere else, since this job has already been done, as you say, as a buffer or bulldozer, but that job that did not work well. I think that this is something that will already wait for you during the negotiations with the EU, Chapter 2324 will be very interesting. How will you end that part of the negotiations with the EU? Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good luck in your work. I think you'll need great energy, and those of you who dared to come to Serbia from great pay to work for 800 euros as ministers. I really wish you good luck and I want you to make your peace in this country. We, as DS, will vote in principle against the vote of this government, but we will support every good proposal and idea in this Parliament and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u757	Thank you. I give my word to the People's Messenger, Alexandra Jerkov. Just to thank MP Pavicevic, who gave up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure and the need to vote. Here you go. Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u758	Thank you, Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, candidates for members of the government and Mr. Vukic, you've spoken a lot, you've spoken a long time. In your presentation, you allowed yourself some things that I believe the President of the Assembly should not have allowed, because such a thing should not be given to himself by anyone who comes to this assembly to ask MPs for support. You warned the MPs, shared our assignments here. In addition to setting the working hours of today’s congregation earlier, you said that the government, or this session, would be completed by 1900 hours. You said something probably inadmissible, but you insulted the MPs, you said no matter what you said here, the exposés would be accepted and the government would be voted. I can see you don't remember saying anything like that, look in the stenogram. At one point you said - please let the MPs hear, although they would vote not to hear what I'm saying. You know, here someone listens to what you're saying, we're not all so ready to work at your moment until a certain time, we discuss until a certain time, although I understand that there are MPs who accept and such a way of working. Although you've spoken a lot, you haven't actually said much. You certainly didn't say anything epochal or new, and I'll agree with those colleagues who said that despite your advice and didn't talk much about the future, you talked more about the past. Once you have to understand, Mr. Wolf, no one is defending you to change yourself and your politics and no one is so black that they can't get a second chance, but this isn't a second chance for you, this is you and many of you who are the third, fourth chance around you, and some, and maybe some of the more chance they're given. I don't mean by changing from you six or seven years ago, because it's really a distant past, I mean changing you today compared to changing you yesterday or you a few months ago. Based on which you expect MPs or citizens here to believe you when you say that some practices are over if you've done absolutely the opposite until yesterday or even today. Don't expect us to accept that attitude of yours, so I made a good mistake, which on several occasions you're in public, not so much here today where indeed every self-critic has been repeated, because those mistakes of yours have some consequences and for them somehow someone has to bear responsibility. You forget that too great are the consequences of your actions, irresponsibility and party blindness which, yes, you continue to show. For many things, you blame the situation you found, and imagine that you only found what you left in 2000 and that the democratic opposition to Serbia found when it came to power, how many excuses you would have then and why you did not do something that made you commit to doing. As an important reason for the public debt and economic problems in which our country is located, you have also cited a 2008 decision to increase pensions. It is interesting then that you have now taken those who were the biggest advocates of such a decision, it is interesting that they had then had the opportunity to impose such a decision on the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a decision of the Government, because the alternative was that your party was then still unreformed to take the country in some completely different direction. However, I don't remember Mr. Vukic that either you or your party then objected to that pension increase, or that you spoke against it. That's why I'm afraid of what you're going to say in three years, or three months from now about this decision that pensions aren't getting smaller, which you're already saying is bad. We support her, but don't let her be someone else's responsibility again for three years. Obviously nothing that happens in this country is your responsibility, but it's the responsibility of a former or a government before that. My question goes to this point – when will your responsibility begin? When that day when the SNS becomes responsible for what is happening in this country, and that these are no longer some before them, before them and before them, etc. Let's talk about what you said here today. We have heard in some indications, not openly, that you are again planning to implement fiscal consolidation by reducing citizens' income and increasing the burden. You're talking about saving, and your mandate starts with the rally you're throwing outside this building and I'm asking you if we're going to pay that rally again with money we don't have, Mr. Wolfie? Because you said a few things during your long exposure that they were paid by money we don't have. If the MPs do not know, I think the president is obliged to inform us in front of the Serbian Parliament the supporters of your parties are gathering...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u759	I'm asking the People's Parliament to come back on the subject and talk about the exposé.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u760	Mr. Vukic is talking about saving, Mrs. Gojkovic, and how some things are paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u761	Okay, well, you've wasted your time with the MPs' group anyway, and you've overstepped it. Thank you. I must inform you and thank Ambassador Enis Imamovic, he gave up the need to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Alexander Jerkov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u762	Article 97 has been injured. Can you just tell us how possible it is that we have wasted the time of the parliamentary group, given that Mr. Sutanovac is the only speaker from our party and that he spoke 11 minutes and 20 seconds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u763	I'm not the one who counts by foot, so I'd say colloquial time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u764	So can you let us know who's billing that time and how much that time is?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u765	I can't answer that, because I'm all speaking at the same time. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u766	Can you tell us who is able to provide us with information on how an 11 minute speaker spent the time of our parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u767	Do you want to speak for a few more seconds? I don't understand the question at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u768	Who can answer the question of how has the DS parliamentary group with one speaker who spoke 11 minutes spent 23 minutes of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u769	Tell me, do you want the Parliament to declare and harm the Rules of Procedure in the voting day? I'm saying he's not hurt by the Rules of Procedure. Please, are you asking for a vote or not? We don't have a third option, and indeed there are 250 MPs who don't share that opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u770	Yeah, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u771	I'm asking the service to determine that we're going to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, we didn't hear a member? What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u772	It's article 97.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u773	The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u774	Advertises the violation of Rules of Procedures 106 and 103. You president, indeed, I must ask you one thing. First of all, you've taken up the time of the parliamentary group. So you denied the MPs the right to speak. That's the first thing. Secondly, all your predecessors in that place allowed MPs when they pointed out the breach of the Rules of Procedure to explain in the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure. For some reason, I don't know which one, perhaps you'll tell us, you keep interrupting the MPs when they explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I remind you, all your predecessors allowed within the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure to explain the injury they consider to have been done. You do not have to agree with that, but you are obliged to say what you think about it or to say, most often – I did not violate the Rules of Procedure and whether you want to vote on it. Please, really like an appeal. Let the messengers say in that time that the injury is predicted, and then when the time is over, then you say what you think about it. In addition, I ask you to allow the MPs of Jekov to finish their speech, excuse me, Kiric, because we certainly have three minutes of time left for the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u775	For accuracy, I asked to be checked, MP Djiric has the right for 20 seconds. Here, use your time. Please, Mr. Giric, use your time, because the previous speaker asked me to allow Ambassador Giric to use his time. Ambassador Djiric has a word. I'll let the DS MPs' group yell at the chairman. Here you go. The People's Messenger of the Shutanites has the word, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u776	It is hardly possible to indicate which member of the Rules of Procedure is not currently injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u777	You have to, I'm sorry. Since your colleagues insist on the rules of the Rules of Procedure, you must specify exactly a member of the Rules of Procedure. I don't want to violate the Rules of Procedure by having double arches and allowing you as an MP that you can speak to begin, that it is difficult to determine the member of the Rules of Procedure that I have broken. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u778	Not the ones you broke, but the ones you didn't break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u779	It can't. I can't stand the criticism of 249 MPs looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if I allow you to speak now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u780	I said Article 105.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u781	Here you go. Once again, Article 105. I ask that the other colleagues bear in mind that I will allow Mr. Sutanovac to repeat his two-minute debate on the violation of Rule 105's Rules of Procedure, and I ask you to have the understanding that you do not call at this time that I have given my word twice for the injury of the same member of the Rules of Procedure. You'll have two minutes. Ambassador Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u782	I'll take the opportunity to speak to you, Mr. Wolfie. So this is the President of the Assembly... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u783	No, you can't talk to someone about hurting the Rules of Procedure except the chairman. Please, I understand what this is trying to do, but please speak to me. Please. I call on the Ambassador of Sutanovec for the violation of the Rules of Procedure to address the Chairman and if you sign in, I beg you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u784	What is currently happening in Serbia's parliament is completely unnecessary and inappropriate. One solemn act we talked about, we choose the government. The Democratic Party has 22 minutes to address.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u785	Twenty minutes and 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u786	Even better. We talked for 16 minutes, and now you're taking our time, because someone can't listen to the truth within four minutes. Did this ever happen in this House when anyone was President of Parliament, people? That can't happen. It is a shame for both parliament and Serbia. We've been talking about four minutes, and you don't give us your word. Who does the truth hurt in Serbia today? You. We'll talk good here, there'll be time. But this is not how the debate begins.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u787	I will well ignore these threats from the Messenger of the Shutanovite. I'm not really mad. I request that the services determine how much time you have left, and the services have informed me as Parliament's president that your parliamentary group has 24 seconds. Please use that time, most politely please as president and as chairman at this time. Do you want or allow parliament to continue? You define yourself. All right, let's move on, because MPs don't want to take advantage of the 24 seconds left from the scheduled time, and I'm asking my colleagues not to be angry over their colleagues of previous speakers and MPs. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? I have to repeat, because there seems to be no understanding or ignorance of the Rules of Procedure, it's not weird, we've been working for three days. So, presidents or authorized representatives, MPs don't? I apologize to Ambassador Suleyman Ugljanin, you used your time as authorized. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u788	President-in-Office, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, candidates for ministers, the Honorable Mr. Vukic, my discussion here today and the way I am confused with interpreting the Rules of Procedure that on the day we talk about the government's election, we cannot discuss and present the facts relating to the government's candidates. At no time did I present any inventions or insults based on any candidate, but I merely presented the facts that have been brought to the public and which exist in the Novopazar Court, a statement by Ertan Gegic, accused of the murder of our committee member Ruzdi Durovic, a statement by Ismet Ravovic, who is accused of kidnapping a minor child, a statement by Barry Beganovic of Prepolje, a former coalition partner of the candidate whom we are talking about, and a case conducted before the competent courts for an organized incursion and an attack against me personally, my official premises since 17 January 2009 and the procedure conducted by SDA Sandzak before the competent courts. So these aren't things that don't exist, they're facts. However, all of this aims not to deal with individual cases, but to draw attention to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the aim of this is to distract the public in Serbia that there is inequality on the ground in Sandzak municipalities in front of courts, not equal to those Bosniaks who are favourites of the ruling parties and on its lists and all other citizens, from newborns, to high school students, students and all those officials, whether they are municipal presidents, MPs or ministers. My goal is to draw the government's attention to it, not to cover it up, so when it gets hot, let me say what we're gonna do now. This is a very dangerous phenomenon in society. We cannot allow the same country to have greater rights, and those rights are granted exclusively because in those political parties, on its lists, when elected, they have the task of attacking every legitimate Bosniak requirement, undermining and not declaring it directed against Serbs, Serbia, against international relations. That's what I'm trying to say, because it's a dangerous phenomenon. Again, I spoke to both the competent ministers and the government's meetings, unfortunately, nothing has changed. It is over 100 serious crimes among which there are a number of unexposed murders in the past, in the past few years, and if we cannot talk about it in parliament, my discussions in the government have not produced results, what should citizens do? I can tell you, the fact that if citizens have no one to complain to, it strengthens people's suffering. I know you don't, but I can see that people don't want to hear this. The most important thing for me is for those who have passed on their legitimacy to me in the elections, for me to pass on to this high home and to ask the government that today will be chosen to work on these things, to remove this bad phenomenon, to have Bosniaks one where they are loyal to the ruling parties, loyal to the regime, to have higher rights and privileges in front of the court and all other Bosniak citizens who have the status of a suspicious person. That's unacceptable. I expect, no matter what, that this government, especially because of the fact that we've been on the European road since January 21st, and there are new circumstances here, and hopefully, no matter what, one of the serious people will at least tomorrow take a stenogram and listen to all this, read and take certain steps to remove these things. I don't see any reason why such unpleasant things should be pushed under the carpet, because this is a place or maybe we should talk over the media? The truth is, I didn't tell you that, pets of the regimes that are reserved here to undermine every legitimate requirement of the Bosniaks, if you attack them, then you have orchestrated fire from all the media in Serbia. God forbid someone would attack to insult the Patriarch, the Orthodox Church, the Army, the State, the Academy of Science. They wouldn't react worse against him than if he attacked those constant pets of the DOS regime to this day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u789	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. There's nine minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u790	Thank you, Chairman. In my earlier presentation, I looked back on what was in the mirror and what the government had been doing for the past two years. I will now say something on behalf of MP club Boris Tadic -- the New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, about what the prime minister said in his exposé. First, a political assessment that the victory of the SNS was a national victory. If I understood it correctly, and I think I heard it just like that, I think any political party or coalition has won the election to be a victory for the people. You agree with that, Mr. Wolfie? In order, as you said, you mentioned that Serbia is dirty, abandoned, etc. I agree with you. Here, let it be my assessment that Serbia is really dirty, abandoned and that, among other things, Minister Mihajlovic has the responsibility. We've talked about this a lot and a lot. Unfortunately, the valley of the lilac is not a valley of the lilac, but a valley of bags, car tyres, refrigerators, etc. Many valleys, rivers and hills of beautiful Serbia are so. Why are they like that? The responsibility, among other things, is at your ministry. We hope that the new minister in the Serbian government who assumes this portfolio, the minister of agriculture and ecology, will do something more on this plan. Mr. Wolf, you were talking about privatisation. The new democratic party supports any privatisation that would be economically justified and would bring benefits to the Republic of Serbia. We're not up for a privatisation that would go public. There's absolutely no difference there, but be careful. Privatisation of public enterprises must be carefully vaginan. You spoke and you said-- what we promise, that's what we do. It wasn't always like that, Mr. Wolfie. I can say that you may have some political promises, however, many of your ministers' obligations are not met and the local situation is not great in public enterprises or in local self-government, and in that sense we need much more attention, cooperation, but I would also say a critical reference to the government you are carrying out. You were talking about better schools, better health care systems. It won't work unless there's political personnel in the responsible places and you said there won't be a case in the future. Maybe this government is an expert government. However, public firms at management levels are still party personnel, which unfortunately do not meet even the basic criteria. You mentioned the railroad and the 40km of speed that our trains achieve. Do you think that Serbia's railway is the best human solution in the future and that perhaps in that sense you should do something to make those trains go at least 60, 70 km an hour in the future, if they can't go 120 km an hour as they go everywhere in Europe? You said you'd reduce the number of public sector employees. What have you done in the past two years on this plan and have there been more party employment than is necessary? Are you going to stop it, and by what criteria are you going to carry out that employment? On the other hand, you said no more feuds. Mr. Djurisic said that there is a serious danger of getting a major feud at the Ministry of Economy and that the economy minister cannot manage that big feud, which is the fact that all public enterprises will be under his stick. I think it's a mistake, and in this sense, in the next period, you need to reconsider that decision, because there may be serious brakes that will endanger the functioning of some systems even in the present range. You have not answered Mr Djurisic's question about reforming the political system. Do you advocate that in the future in the Republic of Serbia there be some kind of political majority proportional system or majority system in local elections and at a republican level where citizens would know who they are voting for, so that it would not happen that your character or character of any political representative would not be in the local communities on billboards? On the other hand, I would ask you, that question is more addressed to Mr Krstic – what will he do on the agenda for public revenues to increase? Mr. Krstic, what have you done in recent months and what are you planning to do in the next period to increase revenues, or to reduce the grey economy? The grey economy is suffocating this country and all those who are in small businesses can't handle the big burdens that would be smaller for all those who are in the gray zone to pay their obligations, or that they are in the regular system. I'm asking you, what are you going to do to increase income from those who don't pay any taxes in the next period? It's an escarpment. It's about protected professions that had their lobbies in this assembly, which aren't even in the fiscalization. Should they first come to order or perhaps nurses medical, teachers, teachers, teachers, doctors? What are you going to do about it? I think it's an area you haven't touched, and it seems like a smoke screen political story about reducing politicians' income. I think many who operate on our market even have some media systems, houses. They pay very little to the state, and they have a bulky system and they don't give the state what they're supposed to give. What about structural reforms? These two years, they've been gone. Are you really going to enter these structural reforms in an effective way, that after a month, two, three we have results, and not that we have the Law on Public Enterprises and that we have a Law on Public Procurement that unfortunately does not work, so that the equipment for magnetic resonance is obtained at clinical centres for five, six months because someone deliberately inhibits these public procurement or because in some other public enterprises these public procurements cannot be completed? In time, we pointed out that the possibility of centralisation of public procurement is also creating a certain danger. In that sense, this government is unfortunately not 100 days gone because it spent 600 days through the previous government in this or that form. We expect that in the next period, when you come before this Assembly, you will show results and not hear political speeches that do not involve actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u791	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I give my word to Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, your Excellency, your distinguished guests, above all, I would like to thank you for coming to the House of the National Assembly and attending this debate. I'll try to answer, certainly not at all, but almost all the remarks I've heard in the second part of our discussion today. I was terrified by one remark about the Zemun clan. Since I will not hide from the citizens of Serbia what is it, therefore, it is as it is said on the way to remain some kind of shadow and doubt in the most filthy way possible, in the most terrible way, the accusation of the man who is the minister in this government, and he is guilty because one daily newspaper, by order, was then thought by his political opponents, published, imagine how he gives death shots to those told by someone from the Zemun clan, so you will say that he is a multiple murderer or I don't know what else. That's so scandalous. I kept quiet, I thought one of the presidents was gonna react, but I guess I'm the only one who remembers what this is about. I guess it says more about those who spoke than about those they tried to talk about. As for the lack of understanding of basic economic issues, I, Mr Sutanovac, respect you very much, but the sentence – the budget deficit is an extremely large cost, is a sentence that says that you know little about it. On the other hand, please listen to me one more time. I've already been responding to your colleague and friend Dragan Gilas about the shifted tax calendar and the level of excise duties in January that were the most, and now they're returning to the expected level. Fortunately, we have a better month than we expected. Ask us, we'll always give you the right information, it's no problem. We know well and well enough and more than you do how difficult the situation is in our public finances, except it's not how you represent it, but I would say that both the causes and reasons are on the other side. Around the external trade deficit, it's incomparably smaller than in your time. It was 58, so it came to 59, in August 2012, the coverage of exports is 72.5% today. It's the only thing that we can especially boast about in these years and eight months, because we're in power for two years, I want to say that, and it's only in August, and it's not even counting that there were elections. You've been repeating it for half a year, and we've all been silent because I guess psychologically you want to tell the people -- they rule so much, it's been so long, it's time for us. Easy, guys. It's not about time. It's about ideas. The question is more honest than the state, the question is who can do what for the country, not how many months have passed and how many months have not passed. When you talk about it -- this is another, third reconstruction, no, this is a new government. Are you saying Angela Merkel has reconstructed herself now, since there are more of the same ministers she had in the last government, much more than this government has? You can say whatever you want, it doesn't matter what anyone says. It's just enough to say something against the Serbian government to say something against me and come on, that's nice and we'll keep talking. You mentioned some expenses, you're talking about saving. The Serbian Progressive Party, unlike you, has paid back all debts and the SNS owes no single dinar to anyone. There is no television house, no radio house, no newspaper house to owe them and one single dinar from any campaign, unlike you. What we had, we reported everything, and we got it thanks to you. We don't need that kind of money. We got it thanks to you. I want to explain to the citizens of Serbia, the DS rules the Law on the financing of political parties when it was the biggest, wanting to have the most money, and then someone else won and they gave us the money. We spend that money domestically, we have the most. But we'll change that soon, and we'll cut the money for both the SNS and the DS and all the parties, and more money for the people. It'll be another change of what you've done. You said here I was the most powerful man. It seems my power is reflected in greater patience and more patience. I'm the only one in this room who hasn't left her in the last eight hours. I've been standing here for three hours in front of you. For the other five hours, I sat and listened. I'm the only one who hasn't left her. I didn't go to eat or drink. It is true, Mr Pavicevic, I wrote until 05.20 p.m. last night, but I also wrote until 05.20 p.m. yesterday and the day before and days ago. I've been doing it for days with both my fellow ministers and many others, because it took us just that three pillars of reform, which was only 11 or 12 pages, it took us 10, 12 days to do it so thoroughly, so seriously and responsibly, to present a plan and programme. I'd understand if this wasn't an exposé. Expose means exposure. I was also saying something that wasn't written, I skipped something, and it was written. I think it was supposed to react on the spot, because it's not the law so I can deliver it to you in writing and you have to get acquainted with it. You reacted the way you reacted. You had an argument, just like any other. You said -- the principles of the rule of law, you said I ordered MPs here. For the sake of the public, because of the people who did not hear, because of those who did not listen to what I said to the MPs, I said, "I would ask you, honourable MPs, to work hard and hard, to sleep here, to eat and wash until July 15th, so that we can begin the reforms in the way we want to begin." If it's an insult and it's an order, then I accept that I have offended you. As for the cult leader, I have not heard that a leader has suffered so easily, beautifully and easily everything you have said, that he has in no way reacted and tried to answer every question politely to you. I haven't heard that those who build such cults, and I've read a lot, a lot of books, that some have similar supervisions, similar views, and similar behavior. About the debts, what's important to me is for the citizens to explain, since it's often been repeated, and the question of pensions. Once again, I am grateful to President NDS, Mr Tadic, for saying what a mistake that was. That mistake will cost us three more years. Who's to blame? At the end of the line, it doesn't matter, it was a terribly irresponsible decision. This mistake will cost us dearly until the end of 2017. Everything. Because because of that mistake, we have what someone says metaphysically evaporated four and a half billion. He doesn't understand Mr. Sutanovac, I tried to explain to him that a billion of their guarantees are for "Srbigas", so we're paying them now, but that's already another pair of sleeves. Four and a half billion went to pensions and salaries, so they metaphysically disappeared. And metaphysically they disappeared because the government of Mr. Sutanovac made such a decision, not this government and not the previous government. This was brought by the government of Mr. Sutanovac, who also opposed Mr. Cvetkovic. Mr. Sutanovac, this is true, and the show you just made, and it's pretty rude in one solemn day. This is true and this is what all economists know, but I assume you're a bigger expert than the heads of the Fiscal Council and everyone in this country who praises these reforms and who praises these measures, and I suppose you're a better economist. It seems to me, and I think that's what the citizens of Serbia think. As far as the people are concerned, you're absolutely right, Janko, whoever won would be a national victory, which is why I said so. It was a convincing victory, so maybe that's why I emphasized it that way. So the people who came before the National Assembly came at their own expense or at the expense of their committees. There's not a single dollar in their country, nor will they pay. On the other hand, you can laugh all you want, because the auto-projection is a miracle, what you're doing isn't doing to me, that's all you have to think about. One more thing, since there was a problem with whether or not these ambassadors of ours were allowed to be singled out, to make some cocktail, they said in the state, so if there wasn't, I don't know, I don't know what, the state didn't even make a cocktail for the election of a new government. I personally singled out the entire cocktail salary so you wouldn't worry, even the state didn't pay for it. As far as our foreign policy is concerned, once again, the government of the Republic of Serbia is determined to continue on its European path. The government of the Republic of Serbia will meet all the conditions for joining the EU, at the end of its mandate and until the end of its mandate, but it is not up to us but for EU members to get their green light for entry into the Union. As far as we're concerned, Russia is a friend of Serbia, that's how it is today and that's how it's going to stay in the future. As for the territorial integrity of all countries, Serbia protects its territorial integrity and Serbia protects the territorial integrity of each UN member state. I don't think there's such a crystal clear position of a country that wants to preserve its freedom, which wants to preserve self-respect, which wants to preserve its right to make sovereign decisions. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the discussion that we had today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, about many ideas we are ready to discuss and accept your NDS idea to discuss the reform of the political system. Mr. Canak started this topic at our talks in the SNS rooms. We're ready to talk about it, deep down, let's see how and how best to solve representativeness at different levels. I think that on that point it would be good, it would be necessary to achieve as broad a consensus as possible of all parliamentary groups, all the national representatives, and knock on the absolutely open door. As for the reform of the tax system, there will be our very strong moves. Lazar Krstic will prepare more legal projects and not only that, but, I would say, an operational plan how and how to strongly attack the grey economy and return economic flows to the regulatory or normal level. I'm sure that's what we're going to achieve, not as many results as some people think, but those results that we can save 20 billion. I'm sure we'll have the strength to do that. In the end, thanks to all of you, I'd like to tell you that today has been a special day for me. When I said, in the opening part, I'm shaking like a rod, somewhere, I guess it's not because of the years, and I finally felt I couldn't move, but it's because a small number of people who have such an honor, who have such an opportunity, only 73 of us in the history of Serbia since the early 19th century. I must tell you that I am proud, happy, but to know what is the responsibility, that together with the cabinet that I have presented, I will work honestly and responsibly, that there will be a lot of difficult things, that people will feel uneasy about us, but I am sure that those who speak ill and those who do not think us well, that they too know that we are making the best moves for our country, for our people. They repeat once again, with all the heavy measures we are going to take, since the end of 2016, all the benefits people have will be greater to them than they are today. For the first time, we have a plan and exact deadlines and everything when, how and how we will be better, with clear anti-recession measures, with clear measures to increase employment in the private sector, and I think that is most important to us. I want to thank the citizens of Serbia for the huge support they have given us. We didn't get that support either on chauvinism or on populist topics, but we got it on a serious and responsible programme, on what we promised heavy reforms, because people knew we were more serious, people understood it well and perfectly. As angry as they may be about the heavy measures, I am convinced that, like Gerhard Schrader, some of us may wait for the glory that even when we lose the elections, some say – yet today we live better thanks to the difficult reforms that were made in that time. One more time, thank you. I believe in Serbia. Serbia will move forward. Serbia will be a country of winning mentality. I am convinced that Serbia in the years to come will be an increasingly significant country in our region. I hardly pronounce those words, but I am sure that Serbia will be a country that will spread stability everywhere and will not have enemies, but will build and spread its friendships around the world. Once again, thank you. Long live Serbia! Go, Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u793	I'm finishing the search. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 270(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule 27 April 2014 as a day for voting on the government's programme and electing the president and members of the government. We will approach the vote immediately, at 6:55 p.m., due to the minutes. Dear People's MPs continue the work of the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. In accordance with Article 88(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 224 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). A Rules of Procedure under which, even after an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, the MP feels that the infringement has been committed may require without the right to explain that the National Assembly is to declare itself on the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to a decision. National MP Alexander Jerkov pointed to a violation of article 97 at a session on April 27th at 6: 12 p.m. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 20 MPs – 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal from Alexander Jerkov that the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme presented and candidates for members of the Government, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 270(2), The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government, decides in general by a secret vote unless it decides to vote publicly. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by a roll call. I propose that the National Assembly vote on the Programme of Government and the election of the Prime Minister and the members of the Government, through the appeal of the MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 196 MPs, against – one, with abstention – there is no, 31 MPs did not vote from the total of 228 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and the members of the Government – by calling. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on a proposal for the president and members of the Government by calling, I remind you that at the same time the National Assembly votes on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government, then the National Assembly decides on the choice of the government as a whole and most of the votes of all MPs. I also remind you that Article 131. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure of public voting - by a call and yes, according to that provision: - Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall call upon the MPs by the alphabetical order of the last name, - the MP who approaches the vote pronounces the word "yes", "no" or "sustained", - the President shall repeat the name and the name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determines that he is absent or does not wish to vote, - the Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall write down a statement of the MP or his absence by his name and his last name on the list. I am voting on the Government Programme and a proposal to elect members of the government as a whole. We approach the vote by calling out the MPs. I ask the Secretary-General of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u794	Thank you. Aleksić Dragan - for Alekić Irena – for Anastasov Adriana - for Andrejević Dejan – for Andrić Mirjana – for Antić Aleksandar - for Antic Zoran – for Arsenović Konstantin – for Arsić Verolju – for Atlagić prof. Dr Marko – for Babić Zoran – for Bašić Dragan – for Bašić Olgica – for Bauer Dr Ivan – for Bičan Milen – for Bajić Dr Muamer – for Beroš Nebojša – for Besarović Prof. Dr Vesna – for Bešić Igor – for Birmančević Boban – for Bić Milen – for Bijekjan Milen Milen – for Blažić Braniković – for Bogotinović Žar – for Bogdanović – against Božović Balšavić – for Božić Bran – for Božić Branko Branko – for Bir Branko – for Brijek Branko – Zabić – for Vraž – for Vraž – Vraž.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-27-0.u795	Since we've held a vote by calling the MPs, I'm closing the vote. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to welcome President Tomislav Nikolic, who will attend this part of the session on your behalf. Allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 228 MPs who joined the vote, 198 MPs voted for the proposal, 23 MPs voted against the proposal, there were six abstentions and did not want one MP to vote. Since 198 MPs voted for the government's programme and the proposal for president and members of the government, representing most of the number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly adopted the government's programme and elected the government in the proposed composition. Allow me to congratulate the President, Vice-Presidents and Government ministers on your behalf and on my behalf for the election. I ask the President, the Vice-Presidents and the Ministers to begin the swearing procedure. (The President reads, and the members of the government repeat the text of the oath. ) "I pledge my allegiance to the Republic of Serbia and to my honor, to honor the Constitution and the law, that the government's duty will be carried out knowingly, responsibly, and committed and committed to the preservation of Kosovo and metaphors within the Republic of Serbia". I ask the President, the Vice-Presidents and the Government's ministers to sign and hand over the text of the oath. (The President, Vice-Presidents and Ministers in the Government sign the text of the oath. ) (Intonation of the Anthem. ) Since the National Assembly has chosen the Government, and since it was the only item of the agenda of this session, according to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I now invite you to a cocktail ceremony in the central hall of the House of the National Assembly.
