ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 165 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda and adopting the minutes exist if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 171 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move on to requesting information and explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request an explanation or notification in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13818	Thank you, Madam President. I have a few questions I would like to ask the various authorities, first of all, Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. What does the Ministry of Interior and the entire ministry do to discover the organisers of the attack on Professor Iliu Vujačić, dean of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade? We were able to find out from the media that the actual attackers were caught, or at least two of them were three, how much Professor. Uncle ID'd them. However, it is obvious that this attack is organized and our question is – who organized the attack, who ordered the attack and who is the person or persons behind the attack and why? This question is very important because it's not just about professor. Vujačić, although it is scandalous that in the middle of the day, on Saturday afternoon, with a prominent professor of the University of the Street, physical hooligans are accounted for, but also because of what he says about an overall security situation in our society. We, I will remind the MPs, today we need to talk about the Alertr Protection Act, which some citizens who report certain things should protect against retribution, and we have a situation where a professor of the University, who reported two months ago that he was being threatened, someone on the street can approach, beat him with sticks, that the police are silent about who is behind the attack and that the perpetrators of the crime have been arrested exclusively. Of course, in the society in which we live today, many may feel that it is quite legitimate to deal with university professors in such a way. From verbal violence to physical violence is only a very small step, and it is obvious that this state has an understanding for those who commit verbal violence and it is obvious that police are very selective in various cases of verbal and physical violence, depending on who are the victims and who are the perpetrators of this violence. The chairman of the DS Municipal Committee in Alexinac, Mr. Boban Rangelovic, was sabotaged a week ago. The police found that someone physically cut the wires under his car. No one from the police ever called him again to tell him what's going on with the investigation. He calls himself the police to inform himself of his case. I will remind you that nearly a year has passed since SNS activists, in SNS rooms, beat up two activists of the Democratic Youth, that one of the beaten young men identified and delivered the names of the people who physically attacked him and that there was no epilogue. Second, my question is to a minister who does not speak to anyone, nor to MPs, nor to teachers, nor to anyone, and that is whether Mr Verbic is aware of what number of schools in Serbia is holding short hours of 30 minutes and, more importantly, what does he intend to do about it? The easiest thing to say is that you do not want to talk, the easiest thing to say is that enlighteners are greedy, they have no understanding of the general situation in which we live, that lawyers work for Miskovic, that students are corrupt, that doctors are greedy, etc., but simply, we have warned that they are not the problem of paying education workers of 36,000 dinars, are not the problem of paying doctors of 54,000 dinars, the problem of salaries in Serbian corridors of 150,000 dinars, what is the average salary. It's the easiest thing to take 10% off, but on the one hand, the state doesn't solve the problem, and teachers, doctors, introduces existential problems into their everyday lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13819	Thank you. The word has an MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13820	I thank the president. A few days ago, we received two very important information from Minister Zlatibor Loncar. The first is that 780 medical workers will be employed, of which 340 doctors and 330 medical workers and technicians, and the second is that Serbian citizens will soon be able to go to private doctors with a health book. With that in mind, I'd like to ask you a few questions for Minister Lonchar. First question – when will the 2015 staff plan be organised? How many doctors are missing Serbia and what dynamics will they be employed in the next period, given that I have information that 361 gynaecologists are missing in 148 health homes? Generally known information is that 2,500 doctors are waiting for work in Serbia and that over 800, according to official records, have gone abroad. The second issue is about equating private and state-run practices in the area of health, i.e. that citizens will be able to go to private doctors soon with the health book. My question about this, when will this process begin? Is it true that the Ministry of Health has any information on the capacity of the private sector, since there are some 3,972 employees in Serbia in private practice? I'm also interested in whether it's a defined service pricer and what is it that RFO is going to pay when he signs a contract with the private sector? My third question concerns the amendments to the Regulation on the plan of a network of health institutions and Regulations on closer conditions for the performance of health activities. Why am I saying this? Many local self-government have a problem with the lack of specialists. I'll take an example of the Shid municipality. This home of health is lacking specialists in internal medicine, ophthalmology, psychiatry, and epidemiology. The local self-government recognized the problem and found it, i.e. funds from the budget that these specialists come from Sremska Mitrovica and get paid for it. In this way, this municipality facilitates the lives of citizens and makes healthcare available to all. According to these rules, however, doctors from major centres cannot get into smaller centres because they are limited by the number of kilometers and the number of inhabitants. To solve this problem, which is evident in many municipalities and cities, and the management of municipalities and cities and local self-government finds the means to solve these problems, these two regulations that I have mentioned should be changed. My question to Minister Zlatibor Loncar refers to whether the Ministry of Health will in the coming period initiate amendments to the Regulations on the near conditions for performing health care, in line with these problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13821	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13822	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is clear that we have been present for some time now with growing economic and social uncertainty. In some previous exhibitions, we have heard that the example of physical uncertainty is also becoming more pronounced in the country of Serbia. Unfortunately, in such a situation, when you have ecological uncertainty, it happens to go unnoticed. Green Serbia has been in a very delicate situation over the past few months, as citizens and citizens, associations of citizens from different parts of Serbia face their problems. The most common are environmental problems, because they identify us somewhere as some kind of green ombudsman. That's why we're obliged to ask different questions. In fact, I almost every week ask a written question that has to do with protecting and endangering the environment, but this issue, which is related to Obrenovac, certainly deserves public attention. Here, for three years, there has been a lack of the ministry, especially the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It is obvious that the fund, as a missing instrument, has led to the fact that environmental uncertainty in Serbia is very pronounced in the 21st century and that, unfortunately, just because someone forces us from the EU, from Germany or from another country, we approach us more responsibly or in a rhetorical sense, at least when it comes to the government, in a rhetorical sense, we approach environmental protection. What's the problem in Obrenovac and what's after the flood, after decades of pollution in Obrenovac, seems to me to be an ecological drop that threatens to pour a glass, if we can say so, an ecological glass that's already black in Obrenovac, is that people from local communities, that journalists, that local committees from Obrenovac, are telling us that someone is depositing seemingly dangerous waste and that it's 25,000 metres of cubic waste that's being deposited along the rails. As "Green" we are interested in, especially me as an MP coming from Obrenovac, who gave permission to cover the public surfaces? These issues relate equally to the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, as well as to the Minister of Energy and Mining. Namely, the local inspection issued a suspension order, but those who deposit the waste are deafening the order. The city's inspection, unfortunately, is not responding. We're interested in what kind of waste is it, as the EPS in its private ballots says, is it quartz sand and see when the already highly endangered ecological situation in Obrenovac gets an epilogue? So we can sublime questions the following way. Did TE “Nikola Tesla” from Obrenovac put waste on fields in the village of Zvečka, as well as on the Mayan area of the former brick “Kongrapa”? Does "Nikola Tesla" have permission to deposit waste in May of the former "Kongrapa" brick, of which kind and is there a classification of this waste to be deposited? Is there any evidence of the amount of waste deposited and has inspection been carried out over the disposal of this waste? Was there a waste disposal on land in the village of Zvečka, along the Te railway, and in whose ownership the land was mentioned? The environmental situation in Serbia is getting worse every day. Serbia is ahead of a major ecological disaster. For the time being, these ecological disasters are slow, but I'm afraid that very soon all of Serbia will turn into one big black ecological point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13823	The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13824	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and has to do with the participation of Albanians in state institutions. As is known, the participation of Albanians in the work of state and public institutions does not meet either domestic or international criteria, or standards. Unfortunately, even today, 13 years since the start of the government programme of the Republic of Serbia to resolve the crisis in the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja, there are many state institutions where the number of Albanian employees is either symbolic or not at all. The forms of effective participation of national minorities in governance represent a common problem. This problem is particularly expressed in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. I can compare one informal data from 2013, which doesn't have much change today, there are no significant differences, that in all state institutions operating in these municipalities, or in charge of these municipalities, there are 1.596 employees, of which 17 Roma, 387 Albanians, and most of them 1,1888 are Serbs. In addition to the fact that the majority of the Albanian employees in these institutions, over 200 of them, are working in the coalition, it is clear what is the low level of Albanian representation in state and public institutions. For example, in 13 inspections covering our area, the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja, there is no employee of any Albanian. That one retired from an educational inspection has not been replaced today, although we have received assurances here that by the beginning of this school year a new one will be set up. The Roma, we don't even talk. I have to state the fact that on 15 July 2010, the government made a decision to amend the Decision on the maximum number of employees in the authorities of the state administration, public agencies and compulsory social security organisations, on the basis of which it was necessary to further employ 64 Albanians, but the whole process of realization was discredited by various manipulations, and then managed to employ all of the few Albanians in the customs administration and in the administration of public revenues. The recommendations made by the Ljubljana Guidelines of the High Commissioner for Integration of various societies say that if diverse societies do not have a good integration policy, then there is a danger that communities that have a territorial concentration become increasingly isolated, have little or no common interests and have no sense of belonging to society in general. With this point, I point out the need for the state to adopt a concrete and dedicated policy in order to remove effective and legal obstacles that can hinder the effective equality of national minorities. Just to remind myself that the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities provides for the obligation of Member States to adopt this requirement, appropriate measures to improve full and effective equality between members of national minorities and those belonging to the majority. The Framework Convention lays down that such measures are not considered an act of discrimination. Specific measures in this regard also provide for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that employment in state bodies, public services, AP authorities and local self-government units shall be taken into account in the national composition of the population and the appropriate representation of members of national minorities. Citing one of the conclusions of the European Council of June 1993, that EU membership requires, among other things, the need for the country to achieve not only the stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy and the rule of law, but also respect for human rights and the protection of minorities. My question to the government of the Republic of Serbia is – when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia form a special action plan in terms of the 2001 programme as a concrete and dedicated policy for the integration of Albanians from a state public institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13825	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, here we are witnessing that the Institute is often turning questions to the Government, although here it is all politics, but often it turns into politics especially when asking a handful of questions from the DS, which is what we heard today ten days ago when questions were asked. We in the SNS have decided that since the government responds in writing and then citizens who watch this transmission have no picture that presents that some local self-government or government is doing nothing or doing bad, by asking these questions. The answers that are received in writing never come to the public but to those same MPs. What the answers say, you don't know. So from now on, we're going to react to that kind of thing to know the real truth in the next period. For example today, questions are being asked to Minister Stefanovic through which it should turn out that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of the Interior is doing nothing and that in the day, these days when there are two, let's say the suspect, that the biggest criminals in Belgrade are in prison. Then, one politician in prison for malfeasance. Of course, the court will show what it is, but when it's done maximum then questions are asked by the Minister of the Interior for something else as if nothing was done, as if the investigations were not in progress and the police were not doing their job, and all official data said they were doing it better than ever in the previous 15 years. I have official criminal record on Belgrade's territory, up until this time, 20.301 which is 20% less than last year when it was 33.656, and this figure is twice as much as all the crimes committed on the territory of the city of Belgrade in the period from 2008 to 2012. Also, the other day, the president of the Municipality of Stari Pazova, Srem, Mr. Gjorge Radinovic called Jokej, was attacked, so all his fellow citizens know him. It's about his trial as if there's no such thing as presummation of innocence, even though it's not about something, he's not being charged with something he's been doing as a public figure, meaning, at some function. At the same time, the first DS man named Tishma Jovan, who was also the president of the municipality and director of the Directorate, who has a detention case in the process and is tried for something that seemed to be a person in the position, who worked with the resources of the citizens of Old Paz. During that time, Stara Paz has the lowest unemployment rate in Serbia. He received recognition for the best municipality, received recognition for the best investment municipality in Serbia. From January 2013, 2,149 employees until October 2014 of newly employed and ten new foreign investments for two years worth 150m euros. Why is the attack obviously the best local self-government, if not in Serbia and probably Serbia, the one in Srem and Vojvodina? It is being attacked because Djordje Radinovic Djokej is his work in the sky compared to the mud in which the province's government and Bojan Pajtic, who runs it, who has no support from the people of Vojvodina, and continues to run the government of the province of Vojvodina. That's why it takes what's purely to attack, to try to get dirty in order for one who's dirty to be on the level, because people like Djordje Radinović every day in any election whether for local communities, whether for municipalities, in any case, wherever the elections happen again, such people win. I have a question for Minister Stefanovic too -- when will the investigation into the Vojvodine Development Bank be completed? It was converted from "Metals Bank" to guarantee Saric for the purchase of land in Vojvodina and converted into the Vojvodina Development Bank. "Metals Bank" has been transformed into Vojvodina Development Bank. That's what I was talking about in this House in 2008, 2009, 2010, and I have the right and now to ask that question. So, when will the investigation be completed and when will we know what was done with the money of Vojvodina Development Bank? We could cover half a billion euros in costs there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13827	We don't have any more authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups to report for word, as far as I can tell. We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Dr Miljana Nikolic, Momo Colaković, Zlata Djeric, Miletic Mihajlović and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. The first, third, fourth, fifth and sixth sessions of the Second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 1, 2, 3, 7 and 8 October 2014. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 148, against – no one with abstention – has voted 36 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the Paper of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 13th, 14th and 15th October 2014. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 159 against – 25 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 21, 22 and 23 October 2014. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that the vote was – 158, against – no one with abstention – voted 27 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the Paper of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 24 and 26 October 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -161 v - no one, with abstentions, has voted, has not voted - 25 MPs, of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the fifth session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 27, 28, and 29 October 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -162, no one, with abstentions, has voted - 25 MPs, of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 6th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, there is also a proposal for the agenda of the session. Prior to the establishment of the agenda pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda for the urgent procedure of the proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda, the proposal for a merger of discussions and a proposal for the conduct of the search in particular immediately after the completion of the principled review of a draft law. National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law amending the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 November 2014. (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the post: I have volunteered to explain this proposal. ) There is no explanation for the emergency procedure. You delivered an explanation in writing. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted – 184 MPs, of the total of 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed to put on the agenda the draft decision on the election of judges who are elected for the first time in a judicial capacity, following an urgent procedure. Please make a statement. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted – 184 MPs, out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Do MPs Zoran Zivkovic or Vladimir Pavicevic want a word? The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored National Assembly President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Minister Selakovic and the Honored Guests, Zoran Zivkovic and I, on 26 September of this year, submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. We believe, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all, that this proposal should be included in the agenda of the eighth session, this session, the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, please allow me to explain in three minutes what we are proposing and why it is very important to put our proposal on the agenda today, gentlemen, and our proposal. First, this bill changes three members, in the existing Higher Education Act. Our proposal to add another principle to Article 4 of the current law, which is very important for the system of higher education, for each modern democratic state, is the principle of academic honesty, gentlemen. The second change we propose is to introduce in the Law on Higher Education a new Article 5a which contains an explanation, that academic integrity is based on independent workmaking, and of course on strict respect for other people's copyrights. We believe that this change should be introduced into the existing Law on Higher Education. We have another member who needs a bill like this, and that's a member who predicts when this law should come into force. It is the first part, the respected President Gojkovic within whom I tried to explain what it is that we propose. The second part is equally important, and the answer to the question – and why is it important that we discuss our bill at this session of the Second Regular Session? The bill that we have prepared here by Zoran Zivkovic and I, it responds to respected gentlemen, in an appropriate way, in clear cases of the acquisition of scientific titles in an unfair manner, and this concerns the acquisition of scientific titles in an unfair manner among the highest state officials in our country, such as the Minister of Interior, President of the Republic, Mayor of Belgrade. We felt, gentlemen, that we should not remain silent in cases like this, a serious violation of the principle of academic integrity, and that is why I think we should discuss this today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13829	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – four, abstentions – there is no, there is no – 178 MPs, of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 3 July 2014. Does the MP, Professor Dusan Milisavljevic, want a word? The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13830	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, this is, I don't know which time to beg for a law that is not the law of any political party. This is a law that comes from a family that lost a child, which was suffering from Batten's disease. This is a law that regulates the rights and treatment of children suffering from rare diseases, and this is the law that I consider to be the most priority for bringing into the National Assembly, because it regulates the rights of some little invisible youngsters who suffer from some of the rare diseases. You're witnessing that a number of humanitarian actions on a number of texts, collected money on social networks, are just rare diseases. I also appeal through this bill of law, and I want to regulate these rights, that we make them invisible to our citizens, visible and that the state gives them support in their treatment. I want to tell you that this bill was made with KCS doctors, who treat rare diseases, that it was done with KC doctors in Nis and KC Vojvodina and that doctors worked on these proposals for more than a month and a half, two days, and that the best suggestions for the treatment of rare diseases were implemented and put into motion by this law. I want to tell you that this bill has the support of 52 NGOs who suffer from a rare disease and I want to tell you that this bill has the support of the National Organisation for Rare Diseases. This is only a desire to regulate the rights of patients suffering from some type of rare diseases in Serbia, as well as in other countries of Europe. It's one of the European laws. This law is something we should bring to the Serbian Parliament. I urge that MPs, that we as colleagues understand the importance of this bill draft, and that if not today, in some weeks that are coming, we bring it to the Serbian Parliament. I can tell you, and I will repeat, this proposal comes from the Mirovljevic family who lost little Bojana and through all the suffering and all the problems that the Mirovljevic family had in treating little Zoya, so that other children would not have the same problems, the bill you have on the agenda today would regulate. This is how I'm going to end up with little Zoya that's been suffering from Batten's disease, and unfortunately, she's lost her fight with a severe and severe illness, but let's try to pass this bill, so some other children who are also suffering from these diseases would have the support of a clear support of the state. In the end, Zoya in Greek means life and I invite you to support the law of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13831	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 173 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Vladimir Marinkovic, under Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) of Article 170 and Articles 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: a draft law on the protection of alarmers; a proposal for a decision on the selection of public prosecutors for the public prosecutor's office; a proposal for a decision on the choice of judges first elected; a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who were first elected to the judicial office and a draft law on the confirmation of a contract between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on extradition. Joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund; Proposal for a Law on the Financing and Security of Agricultural Production Financing; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Flood Protection Protocol under the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Second Amendment to the Cooperation Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites. A joint principle and uniform search on: a draft law on the employment of foreigners and a bill on the approval of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of Serbian military memorials in the territory of the Russian Federation and Russian military memorials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Does the National MP, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, want a word? MP Vladimir Marinkovic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13832	Thank you, Mr. President. You stated that the basis for the unification of the debate is Article 157. Rules of Procedure, Rule 2 and I would like to read to all MPs exactly how position 2 is which I consider to have been injured. The National Assembly may decide to publish a joint principled search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, which have been conditioned or are related to each other, with the decision on each draft law being carried out in particular. Now I want to ask, how are the mutually conditioned solutions of the Code on the Protection of Alarmers with the election of judges and the President of the Courts and the Proposal for a Law establishing a contract between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina? What does this have to do with and how are these legal solutions mutually conditioned? Or the draft law on the employment of foreigners and the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of Serbian military memorials in the territory of the Russian Federation and Russian military memorials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? So, it doesn't matter, we continue with one practice to merge the agenda points that have nothing to do with it, just to supposedly speed up the work. In this way, it is impossible for this Assembly to carry out the quality of the work envisaged by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, meaning that we are discussing all laws in a valid manner and that we are making the best possible solutions. We'll talk if we adopt this kind of merger of agendas about things that are not connected to each other, and that's how we break the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you not to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as it is, bad as you didn't bring it, but that evil regime from some past times has brought it in, but you have to respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13833	Excuse me, which member was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13834	Article 157.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13835	Article 157. Ambassador, I must inform you that I am not the proponent of the merger of the debate, but your fellow MP, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, and that is his right. He felt that he was in line with, so you can't just interpret one member but all the members he cited, along with the lawyers...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13836	I can read it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13837	... Otherwise, he'll help you. It referred to Article 92(2), Article 157(2), Article 170 and Articles 192 and 193. So you have to interpret all of this together.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13838	I can interpret everything. It has nothing to do with these points.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13839	I can't hear you throwing me away, I'm trying to explain to you that your colleague, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has the right to believe that these laws he has proposed to join in a single debate are related in some part of the matter or by the proposer or when... (Marco Djurisic, from the site: I am looking for a word. ) You can't really, with very good intentions, replicate me in an explanation, it's up to you to sanction with a vote or not. So, parliament will now declare whether it accepts your fellow MP Vladimir Marinkovic's proposal, and it is up to you to vote on a possible breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. I thank you. I put on the vote by Professor Vladimir Marinkovic's proposal to bring together discussions in these three continents. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, v – nine, abstention – one, 18 of the 18 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted the proposal of MPs, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you are, MP, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13840	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 27(2) says - The President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. So, you can't explain mine, I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure that you should take care of, and your answer to be - has been proposed by a fellow MP, so the Assembly will decide. I'm just asking you to do the same thing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. I have made it clear to you that a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been directly violated by such a proposal and by such a vote. Of course, most people can decide everything and it is not the first, and I would like for the last time in the National Assembly directly to decide against this Rules of Procedure, but it is your obligation to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, you cannot say – it has nothing to do with me and I am just putting on the agenda what my fellow MP has suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13841	Dear Messenger, you will find in my stenogram a sentence that has nothing to do with me, and then I will respond. So, don't misinformed the public, that sentence isn't spoken, and I can't stop MPs from using business rights to suggest something, it's not in my domain to teach MPs. In other words, 160 MPs decided to bring the debate together. We're moving on to the vote. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and in accordance with Article 157(7). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the search be carried out in detail on the Alert Officer's Protection Law immediately following the completion of the principled review of the bill. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word about the proposal? (No) Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, no one, with abstentions, voted 29 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – four abstentions – there is no vote, no vote 21, of the 184 ambassadors present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the 8th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Code on the Protection of Alarmers; 2. Proposal for a decision on the selection of public prosecutors for the Public Prosecutor's Office; 3. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 4. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court; 5. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on extradition; 7. Proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund; 8. Proposal for a law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the flood protection protocol under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement; 10. Proposal for a Law confirming the Second Amendment to the Treaty on Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT); 11. Proposal for a law on the employment of foreigners; 12. A bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of Serbian military memorials in the territory of the Russian Federation and Russian military memorials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on today's session to be attended by Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, High Council Chairman Dragomir Milojevic, Radomir Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Vladimir Davidović, Assistant Minister of Justice Miroljub Tomic, member of the High Council of the Judges, Majda Kršikap, Secretary of the High Council of Justice, Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice, Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Justice Ministry and Marijana Sarac, Adviser at the Justice Ministry. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on proposals for action from the agenda by point. 1-6, and before opening a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to a relatively large number of MPs. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(1), Article 170(1), Article 192 paragraph 3 and Article 201(2) and Article 157(2) respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on: a draft law on the protection of alarmers, a proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors for the public prosecutor's office, a proposal for a decision on the choice of judges for the first time, a proposal for a decision to elect a judge for the first time and a proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on extradition. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13842	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to present to you, at the beginning of this united principle debate, the most important solutions containing the proposal for a law on the protection of alarmers, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and prepared by the Ministry of Justice. At the beginning, I would like to point out that the National Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period from 2013-2018, as well as the accompanying Action Plan, as one of the objectives, is to establish effective and effective protection of alarmers, i.e. persons who report suspected corruption. In April 2013, as Minister of Justice and State Administration, I announced the adoption of a comprehensive law on the protection of alarmers. At that time, I spoke at a meeting organised by the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, Mr. Sabic, in the framework of the presentation of a model of the Code on the Protection of Alerters, which was developed by a task force run by the Citizens' Protector, who was gathered and organised by the Trustee. Now, at the beginning of my address to you, I express my special gratitude to Mr Sabic and Jankovic, who organised the writing of the first model, based on which the Ministry's working group later developed this legal text before you. At that time, the Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector imposed a strong framework for the adoption of a comprehensive law on the protection of alarmers and paved the way for such regulation of this type of protection. Serbia is the only country in the region that should get such a thorough and comprehensive law. Such laws are rare in Europe, so Serbia is one of the beginners of such a regulation of alarming protection, both in the region and across the European continent. This law represents an alliance between the state and citizens in the fight against corruption. Anyone who notices any action that is contrary to the public interest will be able to report the same without fear, without fear of any consequences to himself or to a close person. The state will protect a person who was brave and responsible for reporting corruption. Such a law should encourage every individual to report abuse, or violation of the law, or someone who does something wrong in the environment. So far, we've had cases that people like this have suffered damage because of their courage of determination and concern for the public interest. With that practice, it has to be done. Whoever dares to fire, relocate or otherwise damage the security of citizens who report illegality in the work of an employer or any illegality in connection with the insult of public authority or perhaps illegality in private or corporate actions will be confronted with the state's response. Not only will the alarmer be protected, but the reported person, state authority or company will be subject to an effective investigation by state authorities. The important legislation of the Republic of Serbia regulates certain protection of persons we call alarmers, but only certain categories of persons, without adequate mechanisms for their full protection. The obligation of the Republic of Serbia to regulate, in a comprehensive manner, the issue of protection of persons who report suspicion of corruption and other illegal treatment stems from the international contracts that our country has confirmed and that of Article 33. United Nations Conventions against Corruption, as well as Article 9. Civil Law Convention against Corruption of the Council of Europe. In the Republic of Serbia, the protection of alarming officers is partly governed by the Law on State officials, the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter and the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. These rules provide for the protection of a limited volume on a number of grounds. For these reasons, it is necessary in a comprehensive way to address the issue of alarming both in the public and private sectors. The ministry of justice formed a working group in September 2013 composed of representatives of the judiciary, i.e. the prosecution, the NGO sector, state authorities, as well as representatives of the unions to make a better proposal for legal solutions. The task force also includes two alarmers who have suffered retaliatory action in the past and who have seen a number of shortcomings in the system of protection so far through personal experience. The proposed law takes the necessary steps towards establishing a normative framework and capacity to fight corruption decisively while at the same time fulfilling commitments from international acts and, above all, recommendations from the Group of States to fight corruption of the Council of Europe, GRECO. The proposed law provides full protection to persons who report suspicion of corruption both in the public and private sectors. The protection of alarmers is to the greatest extent protected by public interest, since alerters are persons reporting corruption, which is why they must not suffer adverse consequences and should be given adequate legal protection. The proposed law regulates both material and procedural issues in the area of alarming, seeking to enable such a comprehensive approach to ensure comprehensive protection of alarmers and effective application of the laws in practice. The purpose of this approach is to interfere with potential alarmers to disclose information about the existence of corruption by guaranteeing them protection and to the greatest extent possible to counter the adverse consequences. The proposed law finally provides a safe alternative to the silence of alarmers through the protection process, which is easily accessible, certain and efficient. The warning in the context of the bill is the disclosure of information on violations of regulations, violations of human rights, the exercise of public authority against the purpose of which life threats, public health, safety, the environment, as well as the prevention of damage to large scales are entrusted. This definition of alarming is wider than the standards set by Recommendation and Resolution 1279 of the Council of Europe. There is also a significant mention of the ban on alarming, and that the provision of a general or individual act preventing alarming is absolutely nothing, i.e. does not produce a legal fact. With regard to the circle of persons subject to alarm protection, Resolution 1279 and the Recommendation of the Council of Europe emphasise that one of the characteristics of the alarmers is his work engagement with the employer and any type, paid or unpaid, continuously or at a certain time and so on. The fact that the alarmer is employed by the employer makes it subject to possible adverse consequences that he may suffer or suffer because of his alarming. This particular feature separates alarmers from other faces. The alerter is therefore defined as covering a natural person who carries out an alert in relation to his employment, employment procedure, the use of governmental services, public authorities, public authorities or public services, business co-operation, or the right to ownership of a company. Working engagement includes working relationship, work outside of working relationships, volunteering, performing functions, as well as any other factical work for the employer. The use of the "worker-related" coin also provides protection to persons who are no longer employed by the employer. For example, former employees or retired persons, who learned information about the alert during their employment. The term employer includes the authority of the Republic of Serbia, territorial autonomy or unit of local self-government, public authority holder or public service, legal person or entrepreneur who works for one or more persons. There are categories of persons who are not alarmers within the meaning of the bill's proposal, but whom the bill provides the same protection as the alarmer. It's about the following face categories: related persons, i.e. persons who suffer adverse consequences due to the connection to the alarmer, travel alarms, i.e. persons mistakenly considered to be alarmers or related persons, and therefore suffer adverse consequences, officials, as well as persons collecting information indicating a potential threat or breach of public interest to which a harmful action has been taken for the purpose of asking for such data. The alerter shall have the right to protect if he is alarming the employer, authorised authority or the public in such a way as to provide for this law within one year of the date of knowledge of the action carried out for which the alert is carried out and no later than 10 years from the date on which that action is carried out. In Chapter three of the Bills, the procedure is indicated, i.e. the alert procedure is arranged and the initial provision provides for the obligation of the employer in particular to act urgently, i.e. the competent authority to disclose information of public interest. Three types of alerts are foreseen: internal, external and public alerts. Internal and external alarms have been set alternatively, while public alerts have been placed subsidiary of internal and external alarms. The inside is done by employers, and the outside is done by the competent authority. The public alert shall be carried out through means of public information, Internet information, public gatherings or other means of making the notification available to the public. The proposed law provides broad powers to the alerter in relation to comparative practice, so that it can choose the right path which it considers to be most effective in the specific situation. Namely, in parallel solutions, the internal alarm procedure is mainly set as primary in relation to external alerts, except in precise and precise exceptions. However, such a solution is not accepted because the legislator cannot predict and accurately list all situations where internal alarming would be dangerous for the alarmer, inconclusive or ineffective. In the light of the seriousness and sensitivity of the information notified by the alerter, the obligation of the employer and the authorised authority to act on anonymous reports and to verify the allegations of anonymous notification within their jurisdiction is prescribed. Also arranged are the obligations of an employer, whose disrespect entails a sinister responsibility. In order to ensure uniformity of the provisions of the general act of employers, concerning the internal alarm procedure, the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary will, by means of a legal act, regulate the minimum rules that each of the above mentioned general acts should contain. The basis of such a solution is to provide a one-ring procedure, which would be efficient and easily accessible to the alerter. The legislator's definition is to prescribe a minimum standard that would be mandatory for any employer. In this way they will be provided primarily with control over the application of these provisions. The proposed law first highlights the protection of alarmers and prescribes a ban on the employer to place the alarmer or the connected person in a more unfavourable position with regard to alerts, and then prescribes the most frequent situations in relation to which the alerter puts himself in a more unfavourable position, such as employment, the acquisition of the properties of trainees or volunteers, work outside of working relationships, education, training or professional training, and so on. They are absolutely zero provisions of a general act which deny or violates the right of the alarmer, i.e. those persons being placed in a more unfavourable position in connection with the alert. Therefore, even in the case of general act provisions, for example, a collective contract, which would provide for the possibility of depriving the alerter's rights, and in connection with the alert, would not produce the same provision as a legal fact. In an advanced manner, more fully protected alarmers, i.e. persons who enjoy protection as alarmers, are provided. The alerter shall have the right to compensation for damages suffered by alarming in accordance with the law governing bonding relations. The proposed law stipulates that the alerter to whom a harmful alert operation has been taken has the right to judicial protection. The judicial protection shall be carried out by filing an action for protection in connection with the alerting of the competent court within six months of the knowledge of the action taken, or three years from the time when the adverse action is taken, and the optimal time limit in which the action may be brought and which fully corresponds to the examples of good practice. In view of the practical length of the court proceedings, the fact that alarmers are mostly economically weaker, the proposed law also provides for special temporary protection of alerters in the form of temporary measures and the return of workers, i.e. the removal of adverse consequences related to alerts. The temporary measure can be determined prior to launch, during the duration, as well as after the end of the court procedure, resulting in double positive effects in favour of the alarmers, which are seen in: firstly, providing a material existence of the alarmer during the course of the court proceedings and secondly, in transferring the burden of proof to the employer. As regards the proposal for a provisional measure contained, a rule is laid down to require the court to postpone the legal fact of the act, prohibit the conduct of a harmful action, and to order the removal of the consequences caused by a harmful action. The proposal for a provisional measure will be decided by the court within eight days of the date of receipt of the proposal. No specific appeal shall be allowed against the decision to determine the provisional measure. The bill stipulates that the wider the circle of the person is covered by the protection provided by this law, as well as that protection is effective and complete. An alarm suit shall not challenge the legality of an employer's individual act which has been resolved on the rights, obligations and responsibilities of an employee based on work. However, a link has been made between the legal regime for the protection of alarmers with court proceedings assessing the legality of the employer's individual act, and special alarming rights are provided for in these procedures as well. Accordingly, in the procedure under the application for the assessment of the legality of the employer's individual act, which has been resolved on the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the alarming officer on the basis of work, under special regulations, the alerter may point out that the employer's individual act is a harmful action in connection with the alert, which may be pointed out in the action or in the preparatory hearing, and after that only if the claimant makes it likely that without his own guilt he could not bring this statement earlier. The proposed law did not disrupt the existing system of protection of labour and legal relations and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's radical change in favour of the alarmers. The change consists in a situation where, for example, an alerter in the course of a lawsuit, which is conducted in connection with an assessment of the legality of an individual employer's act, such as a decision to cancel a labour contract or a transfer decision to another workplace, makes it likely that the individual act in question is an employer's warning act. The court before which the procedure for the assessment of the legality of an individual act is subject to the application of the rules of this law, which concern special protection of the rights of the alerter, such as the rules on the reverse burden of proof or the investigative principle. In this way, the scope of the proposed law is essentially extended to litigation in which the legality of an individual labour law brought to the detriment of the alerter in connection with the alert is disputed. A special rule on the reverse burden of proof that is motivated by the alarmer is also prescribed, since it should only make it likely that it has suffered adverse consequences in connection with the alert, and then the employer should prove that the adverse effects on the alarmer are not related to the alarm. An investigative principle has also been provided for, in order to protect the alarmors, and in this procedure, the court may, if it considers that it is relevant for the outcome of the proceedings, establish the facts and where those among parties are not disputed, and may investigate on their own the facts which no party has carried out in the proceedings. It is also prescribed that a judge, acting on an alarm suit or in special procedures, must be a person who has acquired special knowledge of the alert. The programme and the way in which special knowledge is acquired is prescribed by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. Therefore, other than the judges of senior courts, who are in charge of handling the alarm lawsuits, both judges of the basic courts and of the administrative court, who judge in working-law disputes must be well trained in relation to the rules on the protection of alarmers and special alarming rights. We stress that until the start of the law, special training will be carried out in connection with the protection of alarmers, all those who will apply this regulation in their work. Also, I would like to point out that the press has been prepared in connection with the alert law, as a kind of guideline that will facilitate the conduct of the judges. The following period will also complete the comment of the alert law, which will contain detailed explanations of each legal provision, as well as examples of parallel practice. Special attention will be paid to monitoring cases related to alerts, and to the fact that the cases are subject to alarming complaints, as well as to work-law disputes that have highlighted the alleged adverse working-law consequences of alarming. In an advanced manner, the Ministry of Justice will have full insight into the real effects of the application of this law, and in the efficiency and effectiveness of the temporary protection of alarmers, i.e. persons who enjoy identical protection according to the law. The bill does not provide a cash prize for the alarmer. The reasons on which such a solution is based are numerous. Disclosure of corrupt, but also other potentially dangerous actions must not be motivated by luxuriant reasons. The money prize is in direct conflict with the development of morality and the expression of social condemnation of illegal conduct, as elements that make up the backbone of a healthy system of values to be established in a society. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is also a proposal before you to elect public prosecutors in the appeals public prosecutor's offices. Based on the list of candidates for the election of public prosecutors in the appeals public prosecutors, which was established by the State's chief prosecutor, and then delivered to the government, the government of the Republic of Serbia proposes the next candidates to the National Assembly. For a public prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, prosecutor Tomislav Kilibard. Tomislav Kilibard was born in Belgrade on 14 April 1968. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 1993 on a regular basis, and passed the judicial exam in 1995. After graduation, he started traineeship practice as a lawyer intern, and then continued to work as an intern at the Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office and deployed to the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. Following a 1995 court trial, he was elected as prosecutor's assistant in the Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office, and as deputy prosecutor at the Second Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade in 1997 and served as prosecutor until 2002, to be elected deputy in the Belgrade District Attorney's Office in January 2003, and this post until 2008 when he was appointed to serve as public prosecutor in the Second Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade until December 2009, when he was elected public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. During his public prosecutorial post, he attended a large number of seminars and educations from various areas of criminal matter. For the public prosecutor at the appeals prosecutor's office in Kragujevac, Milijana Doncic was proposed. Juliana Doncic was born on 1 March 1961 in Bica, Klina municipality. She graduated Law School in Nis in 1986, and passed the judicial exam after two years. The working relationship was founded in 1986 at the County Court in Peća. Following the completion of the traineeship, she passed a judicial exam and was admitted to permanent employment as a judicial assistant at the district court in Peća. A deputy public prosecutor in the municipality's public prosecutor's office in Peća was elected in 1992 and then elected in 1996 as a public prosecutor in the municipality's public prosecutor in Peća. For a public prosecutor at the district public prosecutor's office in Peća, she was elected in 2005. The resolution of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office since 2007, as a public prosecutor at the district public prosecutor's office in Peća, addressed her to work at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac as deputy public prosecutor and held the post until 2009 when she was elected deputy public prosecutor at the Kragujevac Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac. A resolution by the Republic Public Prosecutor was appointed in 2013 to serve as a public prosecutor at the Kragujevac Appealal Prosecutor's Office. For a public prosecutor at the Nis Appellate Prosecutor's Office, Edward Jerin was proposed. Edward Jerin was born in Leskovec on 18.01.1952. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Nis in 1975, passed the judicial exam in 1977. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Nis as a student of the generation, and has been employed as an intern at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovac since 1975. After a traineeship, he passed a judicial exam and was assigned to the post of prosecutor's assistant at the district public prosecutor's office in Leskovac. In 1978 he was elected deputy public prosecutor at the municipality's public prosecutor's office in Leskovac. In 1982, he was elected as deputy public prosecutor at the district attorney's office in Leskovac, and based on a resolution by the republic's public prosecutor, he served as deputy in the Gjilan District Public Prosecutor's Office during January and February 1992. The resolution of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office since 2001 has appointed him as the public prosecutor's office in the Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovac, and on 20 September 2001 he was elected public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovac and held the post until 2009. Since 2010, he has served as deputy public prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis. A resolution by the Republic Public Prosecutor was appointed in 2013 to serve as a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis. Milan Tkalac has been proposed for a public prosecutor at the New Sad Appeals Prosecutor's Office. Milan Tkalac was born on 9 September 1961 in Vrsac. The Belgrade Law Faculty graduated in 1985 and passed a judicial exam in 1988. He performed traineeship practice at the Utva Vršac aircraft factory, where he performed the tasks of an expert associate and manager of the general, legal and humane affairs sector. He was elected in 1989 as deputy public prosecutor for the municipalities of Vršac and Plandište. Starting in 2000, he served as public prosecutor in the municipality's public prosecutor's office in Vrsac. The National Assembly's decision of 12 July 2000 was elected as a public prosecutor at the municipality's public prosecutor's office in Vrsac and held the post until 2009 when it was elected deputy public prosecutor at the New Sad Public Prosecutor's Office. He is a participant in a number of scientific meetings and seminars, and a solution by the republican public prosecutor is placed as the public prosecutor in the New Sad Public Prosecutor's Office. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on extradition, and allow me to point to its content in just a few sentences. A contract was signed between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on 5 September 2013. This Treaty shall contain standard solutions for the extradition of accused and convicted persons except in the case of extradition of their own nationals. Namely, this contract provides for the extradition of its own citizens, but only for the crimes of organised crime, corruption and money laundering, as well as for certain other serious crimes. The contract does not apply to criminal acts of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. Crimes which allow the extradition of their own citizens will be allowed only for the offences committed after the entry into force of this contract. Crimes of organised crime under this contract are crimes for which a four-year sentence is prescribed or more severe punishment for acts committed by organised criminal groups in accordance with domestic law, organisation and membership of an organised criminal group, in accordance with domestic law. Criminal acts of corruption under this contract are abuse of office by the official or responsible person, active and passively illegal intervention by using influence, active and passive bribery of the official, active and passive bribery in the private sector, as well as embezzlement. The extradition of its own citizens for the purpose of prosecution will also be permitted for other serious criminal offences for which the sentence of imprisonment or measures involving the confiscation of freedom, i.e. the deprivement of freedom for at least five years or more severe punishment, as well as for the execution of the legally imposed sentence of imprisonment or measures involving the deprivement of liberty, if the duration of the sentence or measures is to be carried out is at least two years. With regard to all other issues, such as extradition assumptions, the principle of "not bis in idym", obsolescence, simplified extradition and other, the contract contains standard solutions as well as all other contracts. The completion of the extradition contract should contribute to more effective and better legal co-operation between the two countries in the area of extradition of accused and convicted persons. I note that so far contracts are concluded which provide for the extradition of their own citizens with the Republic of Croatia, Montenegro and the Republic of Macedonia, by allowing extradition only for the criminal acts of organised crime, corruption and money laundering, and, except for those crimes, extradition for crimes against humanity and other goods concluded, i.e. protected by international law, as well as for certain other serious crimes. I note that BiH ratified the contract on 14 October 2014. Thank you for your attention. I express my hope and confidence that after the debate in principle and detail, when it comes to the draft law on the protection of alarmers, as well as when it comes to other points that I have explained, the proposals will be adopted in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13843	Do the representatives of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) The first speaker is Elvira Kovac's National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13844	Dear Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present in a few minutes the position of the SVM parliamentary group regarding the draft Code on the Protection of Alertrs. As we have heard in the opening statement of the Honorable Minister, both the national strategy and the action plan to fight corruption, it is envisaged to adopt an effective and effective protection of those persons who report suspicion of corruption and it is envisaged and it is mentioned for some time now that a special law on the protection of alarmers is passed. It is significant that the various international documents mentioned, such as the UN Convention on Combating Corruption, are prescribed that each Contracting State, including the Republic of Serbia, provides for appropriate safeguarding measures against any unwarranted treatment against any person who reports to the competent authorities the facts relating to corrupt crimes. The Civil Law Convention against Corruption of the Council of Europe also contains, but in this case a binding provision stipulating that each party Party should ensure, in its domestic right, adequate protection against unjustified sanctions against employees who have reasonable suspicion of corruption and who, to a good extent, have their suspicion of reporting to responsible persons or bodies. However, the fact is that in many Member States, Europe's Council still does not have a specific, specific law to protect those who warn of corruption. There are only certain parts of the law that concern first relations in the field of labour, criminal proceedings, media and discrimination, and therefore the SVM parliamentary group welcomes and supports the adoption of a special law on the protection of alarming officers in this high house in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, it is noteworthy that by the Constitutional Court decision dated at the end of October, in particular on 23 October this year, one of the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act is, on the basis of which the Alertr Protection Regulation was adopted, unconstitutional. In practice, this would mean that seven days after the publication of this Constitutional Court decision in the Official Messenger, the alarmers would remain completely free of any legal protection provided by such a but this Regulation. Since so far, there has been no special law on the protection of alarmers, yet a decision has been made to postpone the publication of this decision for three months and it is possible for us to pass the law during this period, which will happen in a few days. We will all agree that this is an extremely sensitive topic, that the subject of the legal text, in fact, the fight against corruption and poor governance, and it is important that it does not only apply to the public but also to the private sector. At the heart of this bill is the protection of those who draw attention to corruption and other irregularities in their working environment, since their role is their role, meaning the role of those who are willing to contribute to the detection of concrete cases of corruption of paramount importance, if not crucial. By adopting this law, the plan is to avoid dangers, so that people who have alarm status will be left without legal protection. The draft law first highlights the protection of alarmers, i.e. persons who enjoy protection as alarmers, as well as the ban on the employer putting the alarmer in a more unfavourable position in connection with the alerting. We heard in the opening statement of the distinguished Mr. Minister who are these procedures, the situation in which the alarmer is placed in a more unfavourable position, and we are aware of that. I'll only mention a few. The most common is employment or training, professional training, certain promotions at work, evaluation, changing working conditions, termination of employment, payment of severances, earnings, transfer to another post, etc. In the event of damage to the alarmer, the alerter will have the right to compensation for damages, and in the case of harmful actions taken and by alarming him will also have the right to judicial protection. It is significant, we have heard, I do not want to repeat myself, and it is possible to see the exact definition of alarming in this law, what I would like to stress as a member of our delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that the fact that the definition of alarming in this future law is extended in the bill of law. So, the standard of the Council of Europe is expanded taking into account the specificities of both the legal, economic and social arrangements of the RS, so it is the concept of public-interest alerts. It also includes disclosure of information in the exercise of public authority against the purpose of which this public authority is entrusted, but also to prevent damage to large scales. I would also like to point out, it is extremely interesting that the alarmer can alert and the public without prior notification of the employer or the authorised authority in the event of a direct threat to life, public health, safety, the environment, from the occurrence of damage to large scales, that is, if there is a direct threat to the destruction of evidence. It is very important, and we certainly welcome it, that it is emphasized here that, in the event of an alarming public, the alarmer is obliged to respect the assumption of the defendant's innocence, as well as the right to the protection of personal data and not to compromise the conduct of the court proceedings in any way. Where the prosecutor, in this case the alarmer, or a person who reports suspicion of corruption or a person who enjoys protection as an alarmer, in the course of the procedure makes it likely that he is being taken a harmful action in connection with the alarming of the employer is the burden of proving that the harmful action is not in a causal relationship with the alarming. The prosecutor, or alarmer, should only make it likely that he has suffered adverse alarm effects, and it is up to the employer himself to prove that the adverse effects on the alarmer are not related to the alarm, which is good. Unfortunately, the current situation is such that there is still no adequate and comprehensive social protection for those who warn their activities, draw attention to the general public to the harmful and against the legal phenomena that are important to every society, which are important to our society if indeed the goal of progress and healthy social development. That is why we believe that the normative effective protection of persons who report corruption is of great importance precisely to fight it. As mentioned above, this law extends the circle of protection of persons and non-state officials, i.e. employees in public authorities and to all other categories of persons who must not suffer adverse consequences if they are in good interest to report suspected illegal activity. On the one hand, the law should encourage alerting, reporting, and on the other hand provide and guarantee special protection for alarmers and other categories associated with them. The law prescribes a ban on acting through the most common situations in which, unfortunately, alarmers are still placed in a more unfavourable position in practice. In every transition society, the dangers of corruption fully justify the need to pass a special law that would regulate this area, all to establish an effective mechanism for disclosing illegality and irregularities. SVM MPs consider it extremely important to restore citizens' confidence in democratic institutions. We believe that the positive effects of this law create preconditions for strengthening the rule of law and respecting the law, for creating environments in which these laws are truly respected. Of course, developing morality and expressing social condemnation of illegal conduct are elements that make up the backbone of a healthy system of values. But we also agree that legislative concepts and particularly normative solutions should be seen from the point of view of the goal to be achieved. In the event of alarming and alarming, the aim is to detect as many cases as possible of public interest endangerment as possible and to eliminate the adverse consequences of the threat to the rights of those alarmers. Undoubtedly, the achievement of this goal will help these people to truly be prepared to report violations of the law and harmful phenomena of public interest and therefore have to be effectively protected. The relevant research in both Europe and other countries, as well as in the Republic of Serbia, suggests that the alarmer's main motive is to solve the problem effectively which they point to. To that end, it is necessary to ensure that the alarmer does not suffer any damage, to receive reasonable compensation if he has already suffered damage so that he has no reason to regret later that he has actually tried to protect the public interest. The point of regulating the area of protection of alarms is to motivate alarmers, those who have knowledge of any illegality to point out in as large a number of such practices as possible, and all in the public interest, to limit legal provisions to the possibility of harmful actions precisely towards those persons after disclosure, as well as to make them go through all these legal procedures afterwards as painful as possible for them. However, the improvement of legal regulation must also be accompanied by general changes in people's attitude towards reporting corruption. What is also significant must be monitored and the application of these laws and effective. It needs to be checked for real effects on the protection of employees. To conclude, if we really want to work on a mechanism to increase responsibility and strengthen the fight against corruption and poor governance, the first and basic step is to create a special law, a legislative framework to protect those who warn about corrupt actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13845	The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13846	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will point out immediately at the very beginning of this discussion that the MP group of the SPS unreservedly supports the establishment of a legal framework or codification of all that we had previously in other laws and systematise in other laws, and is related to the fight against corruption. At the same time, it is also agreeing with other acts, primarily country recommendations signed by the Anti-Corruption Protocol, which are EU countries, i.e. in front of the Council of Europe, as well as the UN Convention. What the SPS parliamentary group is taking in terms of this law is the fact that we have to face something that can metaphorically be presented as cancer, which, when metastasized, literally devours the healthy tissue of what it is, which is corruption. The forms of corruption, at least we hope, in education, health care, the state administration, the judiciary, and who knows where else are the reasons why this law contributes to these phenomena, that therapy, i.e. treatment, is immediately taken and that through this law that we are discussing comes to the end, which is that corruption comes down to the level that implies normal functioning of the state, normal functioning of the legal system, without jeopardising the foundations or pillars of the state. Of course, we have also set ourselves up against this bill by trying to help the amendments to improve the quality of the law. We hope, Mr. Minister, that you will carefully consider these amendments and we are confident that you will adopt them, given that the amendments are precisely pointing to what might be even more precise and consistent, especially when it comes to procedural and legal principles and provisions of this law. We in the SPS parliamentary group insist that, in the fight against corruption, which is linked to this bill, all must join together, that one wide front alarmer must be created, and not just persons who are allegedly identified as alarmers in Article 2. The bill, but literally all those who contain information which may be available in terms of indicating a violation of the law, the forms of corruptive action in any sphere, and thus contribute to sanctioning both ultimately and eliminated in the legal procedure. That is why we believe that this very notion of alarmer should have been a little bit broader in terms of word terms, so that, in fact, under the term of the alarmer, besides what is said here, all those who have knowledge of the breach and this flagrant breach of public interest, which is manifested through corrupt action. The SPS parliamentary group firmly supports the view that alerters must have an adequate level of protection, both judicial and any other. But we also believe that the alarmers with that protection must show their security, must make them responsible, must bring out everything that implies the lack of adequate benefits. Of course, in that part, we have one well-intentioned suggestion, because these are all types of abuses, which we must neither allow nor in practice can happen if they are properly systematized in law. In Article 11 of the proposed text of the law, we have seen that a good process solution or material-law solution, however it is taken, is forbidden to use alarms if it is done by requiring information at the same time and benefit. The question arises – for what benefit, is it only for the alarmer himself or for a third person? That is why we believe that, in this direction, we have also submitted an amendment, that this benefit must firstly be clearly defined, that it is both property and non-equity benefit and that it applies to both the alarmer itself and every third person. We also have such an institute in criminal law, so we believe that it can be applied analoguely in this law and that this illegal property benefit must not be acquired either for itself or for another. That is why we believe that this provision is designed to improve by quality, precisely with this extremely well-intentioned suggestion that I make. On the other hand, in the opening presentation of the motionor, that is, the minister, we have noticed that the intensity of the promoter, which we otherwise support, is to respond in urgent procedures. However, this reaction in emergency procedures does not mean for us, the Socialists in the SPS, so we think of it as long-term deadlines. The deadline of 15 days, which is defined in the provisions of this law, which should be followed by those who have to respond to the information in accordance with the provisions of this law, is still too long. Why too long? It shall also be contained in the provisions of Articles 18 and 15. First of all, it is too long because certain abuses can be created within that time limit, certain harmful consequences may be caused. Of course it should be avoided and that deadline should be shortened. We don't think that deadline should be longer than three days in any case. Why? Because the person to whom the information has been sent has no reason to wait without responding to information. Why does it take him 15 days to react, if it points to corruptive action, if it points to behavior that is abuse, taking money or giving money, anything else that represents a manifestation of corruption and waiting 15 days? It is true that Article 15 states that it should react without delay and no later than 15 days, but that is why Article 18 is strictly bound again for 15 days. We believe that the deadline is inadmissible and that it can indeed be significantly shorter. Today, on the Committee on Justice, we also discussed the phenomenon that is otherwise proposed in this text of the Code on the Protection of Alarmers, which refers to so-called ‘the World War’. anonymous reports. It is doubtless that anonymous applications should also have a certain process-law force and that these anonymous applications should be answered, but should also be taken into account for one danger, that no one is engulfed in anonymous applications, that all anonymous applications do not have the same aim, that these anonymous reports may be brought into a situation to delay the procedure by anonymous application, if we do not have a signator, and we know that all of us here can write everything in anonymous applications, from the most trivial to the most vulgar connotations. It is therefore necessary to avoid what in some way threatens the procedure itself, at least in terms of its duration, if not something else. Therefore, a discretionary right should also be given to those who decide on an anonymous application, whether each anonymous application will be processed, or whether each anonymous application will be followed. It is also very important to point out that judicial protection must be provided to alarmers in case there is a tendency to do harm or at least in case a harmful action has been taken towards the alarmer. However, in this judicial protection, at least in this process area, we must be aware that the initial act, i.e. the lawsuit, must be fully in line with the provisions of the law. You, Mr. Minister, have indicated, absolutely correct, that in such situations, i.e. judicial protection, the procedures that are being conducted in relation to this law are in accordance with the provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure and this particular procedure relating to work disputes. However, it is not only a work dispute and it is not just work-law status protected by this law, but also others, and a business-law, and payment orders, administrative and many others. Therefore, in this direction, we have submitted one amendment, which, in addition to working-legislative disputes, implies the possibility of applying the provisions of the Law on the litigation process, but which regulate other substances, rather than only labour disputes. We hope that you will also accept such a well-intentioned proposal and that it will be an integral part of this law. It is also necessary to point out in this direction that a very good solution is provided for by this law and provisional measures, which, in addition to these reasons, are to be brought not only before and during the course of the proceedings, or after the end of the proceedings, but also when the action is brought, that is to say, are then an integral part of the action as an initial act. It's supposed to be in the law itself. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, what's essential in procedural law, that's what a lawsuit should contain. What it contains is stated here, and we MPs must say what is mandatory to contain. What is required to contain is this so-called declaratory part, namely to establish that an act has been taken which can cause adverse consequences for the alarmer has been taken. Any action, any inaction, but the declaration in the lawsuit is inescapable. Why? Because if we find that there has been damage, only then can we seek these so-called secondary legal protection claims or demands to remove the danger from harm, to stop such an act or inaction, as well as everything else that is stated here in the law. Only then can we ask, because this declaration prejudges, is some sort of previous question that depends on everything else. But let's get back from that purely legal terrain on the field of life. The Socialists and the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group stand firm in the view that those who have to decide on information also have a high degree of responsibility. In this direction, this degree of responsibility is so much higher if the alerter itself is more protected, which they must provide, both in terms of protecting the confidentiality of alarming data and in terms of everything that must be provided to the alarmer. If my esteemed colleague and I, Misa Petronijevic, have submitted information that someone has done anything corrupt, then we have every right to have someone who decides to return the information as far as this process has arrived, what has been done in this process, and the right to gain insight into the case files. Without it, I remain deprived of something that was exclusively the fruit of our activity and our initiative. In the end, I must point out that it is very good that it has gone this way through the establishment of a legal framework to fight one, so to speak, monsters in society, who simply in the Republic of Serbia are affecting certain parts of the system, certain parts of the state order, and blind or impertinent looking at such phenomena can be very dangerous, with far-reaching consequences. As a result, the SPS parliamentary group supports and no doubt will propose the adoption of this law in the voting day, i.e. we will vote in favour of this law. As far as the other parts are concerned, above all, the proposal that lies ahead of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutors is present here, and related to the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office and other proposals that you, Mr. Minister, have read, I must point out something that has always been consistent with the position of the Socialists and MP groups of the SPS, which is that we ask, as well as our citizens, to have an elite judiciary, that in the judicial system they must be the bearers of the judicial functions that deserve it, both by their professional references and by their human qualities, to be primarily worthy of personality, persons who can professionally respond to their call and personality who can bear the burden of the call's obligations. Unfortunately, we're aware it wasn't always like that. Unfortunately, we are aware of the fact that in the recent past there has been a literal experimentation with people who carry judicial functions. We are aware and we bear witness to the fact that in the judiciary we have left both those who deserve it and those who do not deserve it, given that we did not have the right criteria for assessing the work of judges until recently. The Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors by the SPS Group now have full support, because the rules on the assessment of the work of both judges and prosecutors have been adopted and have been started with the assessment of the work of judges and the establishment of the judge's assessment committee. Why? Because, without an assessment of the work of the judges, none of the holders of the judicial functions should be elected to the honorable profession of the holder of the judicial office. What's started should be a trend, it should be one of our activities that will continue in the future, with the sole purpose of having the best in the best judiciary and the best in the best prosecution. That is why I support every choice of both prosecutors and judges, which implies a choice by criteria of measurement, clarity and precision, where the quality of work is expressed, and the quality of work is not just an emergency, which Tomic knows best. It is not a quality judge who will solve an inflow of 100 cases within a month, and that all judgments will be lifted according to the next regular or extraordinary legal remedy. Quality must always be present, and this quality is reflected in the number of confirmed, or abolished judgments. We therefore believe that what the High Council of the Judiciary has done, what has done to the State's Major Prosecutors is very good and the SPS will always support such solutions. Therefore, in the end, what is also the conclusion of this whole discussion in front of the SPS parliamentary group, all that is present in this united part of the debate as proposed by the law will be supported by us and always will be supported by what means the quality of the law and the quality of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13847	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the High Council of Justice, Mr Miroljub Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13848	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to welcome you first on behalf of the High Council of the Judiciary. I am here today in front of you as an authorised promoter in front of the High Council of the Judiciary, in order to present to you, but also to the citizens of Serbia, if you are following this assembly session, and to explain the proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary concerning the election of the President of the Courts in individual courts, as well as the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to judicial functions. When it comes to the motion for a decision relating to the election of the President of the Courts, I can say that it is based on Article 47 and on Article 80(1). The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary in July 2014 announced the election of the president of eleven courts in the Republic of Serbia in order to round up the election procedure of the President of the Courts, since we all know that at some of the previous sessions, the republic's parliament has held the highest number of judges in the Republic of Serbia in almost all courts. In the process of proposing candidates for the election of the President of the Courts, the High Council of the Judiciary is, on the basis of Article 52. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the VSS, held on 22 July 2014, took the decision to educate the Commission to elect the President of the Courts. The commission's task was to carry out a verification of the applications submitted by colleagues who applied for these significant functions, then, to determine their completeness and well-being, to conduct a conversation with the applicants who applied for the election and to assess whether the applicants applied met the criteria and criteria for the election. Thirty candidates submitted to the announcement for the election of the president of the courts. In addition to the application, candidates for the presidents of the courts also submitted short biographies and a work programme, in which they presented their vision of problems in the functioning of the court, for which they submitted their application, then a way of overcoming them and ideas for improving the work in that court. In accordance with Article 70(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on Judges and Article 50(2) Rules of Procedure on the work of the High Council of the Judiciary, the institution has obtained the opinion of all the judges in which the candidate was elected to the judge's office and the session of all the judges proposed by the President of the Court. The Commission for the Election of the President of the Courts held talks on 24 and 25 September 2014, with all 30 registered candidates who applied for the election of the President of the Court. We are bound by the provisions of the Law on Judges, but I believe that we will all agree here that it obliges us to, as a body proposed by this Republic's Parliament, the selection of the highest functions in the Serbian judiciary and to talk to candidates who have submitted applications, so that they can hear from themselves what problems they see in the work of certain courts, which are their ideas that want to improve the work of the court, overcome these problems and make them work in these courts, and thus, in a comprehensive way, in the Serbian judiciary, it is better and more effective. On the basis of Article 13(4), The law on the high council of the judiciary and on Article 70. The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary held at the sitting on 30 September 2014 established a motion for a decision to elect the President of the President of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice in Sombor to elect Aleksandar Pozder, Judge of the Court of First Instance in Sombor, to elect Branislav Lukić, Judge of the General Court in Dimitrovgrad, to elect Zlatoje Ankic, Judge of the Basic Court in Zrenjanin as the President of the General Court in Zrenjanin, to elect Svetomir Cvetković, Judge of the General Court in Leban, as the President of the General Court of the Basic Court in Šid, to elect Ljubica Petrić, Judge of the Basic Court in Šid, to elect the President of the Prescršič, to the President of the Prescršičko Šrić, to the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the Preskriščekrić. I note, that before the High Court of Justice, the proceedings are under way to examine the applications submitted and to set out a proposal for the election of the President of the Courts in the Court of Justice in Prokuplje, the Court of First Instance of Prokuplje and the Court of First Instance in Vranje, which would, I say, be one more round of this process of electing the President of the Court and end the so-called so-called. v.f. the situation which has long been present in the Serbian judiciary when it comes to the presidents of the courts. Given your time, I will not present to you here a complete biography of all the candidates reported, given that the complete biography and movement in the service of all candidates proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary are in favor with the explanation of the High Council of the Judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out that the High Council of the Judiciary has been defined for these candidates, because all the meetings of the judges in which these candidates perform their judicial functions have been positively spoken of by the proposed candidates. These proposed candidates have good results of working in the matter in which they are, therefore, acting, because in the programme they submitted with the application they looked at the situation in the courts at which they wanted to be headed as judge presidents, presented their ideas, presented measures to improve the work of the courts. The Commission, which has held talks with all candidates who have submitted applications for the selection of this important and responsible function, gave a positive opinion and the most positive opinion to these candidates, expressed confidence that these candidates, noting that it is experienced judges which can easily be seen through insight into their working and judicial biographies that we expect as the High Judicial Council that they will best achieve good results in the organisation, management and management of courts, that in this way, we will agree that all of us will be more successful in achieving the objectives set out in the Strategy for the implementation of judicial reform for the period from 2013 to 2018 and the Action Plan for achieving this reform and, as one of the previous speakers has said, that they will also contribute to making the Serbian judiciary more effective, more professional, transparent, but also more responsible. When it comes to the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, since it is, as I understand about the joint search, I will explain these decisions together and point out that the High Council of the Judiciary is based on Article 47. The Law on Judges, and with regard to the decision on the number of judges in the courts, the official messenger of the Republic of Serbia announced on January 22nd 2014 the choice of judges for the Administrative Court in order to fill four vacant judges. Then, in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", issue 14 of February 2014 announced the choice of judges for the Commercial Court in Zajecar as one of the judges, the Business Court in Novi Sad for three Judges and the Business Court in Panchev as one Judge. "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 15 of 11 February 2014 announced the primary court election in Vrbas for the completion of four judges' seats and in the official messenger of the Republic of Serbia, number 14 of 7 February 2014 announced the choice of judges for the Chamber of Commerce in Zajecar for one judicial post and for the Privrevac court for two judicial seats. You have seen from the very court documents attached, i.e. in the explanation of the decision submitted to you in support of the fact that a large number of candidates have applied for these Judges, so the High Judicial Council is in the process of proposing candidates for the selection of judges pursuant to Article 52. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the High Council of the judiciary also educated the Commission for the Selection of Judges whose task was to carry out a review of the applications submitted for the advert to determine their completeness, to hold talks with candidates who submitted their application for the election and to assess whether the candidates meet the criteria and criteria for the election. In accordance with the provisions of Article 49 of the Treaty, the Commission shall For all candidates, the Law on Judges, the High Council of the judiciary has obtained an opinion on competence, competence and dignity for the performance of the judiciary. We will agree that in order to perform such a significant function, it is significant that the candidate meets all the conditions. So, to meet all the conditions, to be professional, to be trained but also worthy to raise Serbia's level and quality of justice overall. For the candidates who come from the courts, the opinion of the session of all the judges from whom the candidate comes as well as the opinion of the session of all the judges of the Court of Justice. Why? Because we all know that an institutional high court monitors the work of lower courts through a decision to appeal individual judgments in a certain lower level of court cases and can best say, indicate and assess whether certain candidates meet the conditions for a particular choice. For candidates who do not work in a court of law, an opinion on expertise has been drawn up, on competence and dignity for the exercise of judicial office as well as on the bodies and organisations in which the candidates work, and the opinion of the Bar Association in which the lawyer is registered has been applied for candidates from the law. The Commission for Elections held talks with the candidates who applied for the election of judges, and on the basis of the report of the Commission, and taking into account the opinion of the session of all the judges from which the candidate is from and the direct senior court, the High Council of the judiciary has established which candidates meet all the criteria and criteria for selecting judges prescribed by the provision of Article 43. Laws on Judges and Provisions of Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. Decisions laying down criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents. The High Judicial Council proposed that the National Assembly be based on Article 147. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 51(1). The Law on Judges elects the following candidates for the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad, Natasha Kiš, Judge of the Court of Commerce in Novi Sad. For the judge of the Court of Commerce in Pancheva Vesna Loca, a judicial assistant at the Court of Commerce in Pancheva. For the judge of the Court of Commerce in Zajecar, Dragan Jocic, a judicial assistant at the Privredni sudo in Zajecar. For the Court of Justice in Vrbas, Anita Budimir, a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. Nikola Petrovic, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. Milan Debeljački, judge's assistant at the Court of First Instance in Vrbas and Milan Djukanovic, judge's assistant at the Court of Justice in Vrbas. For the judge of the Administrative Court, Vesna Coguric, judge's assistant at the Administrative Court. For the judges of the Court of Commerce in Zajecar, Jelen Milenkovic, a judicial assistant at the Privredni sudo in Zajecar. For the judges of the Court of Commerce in Pozarevec, Svetlana Đuric, judge's assistant at the Court of Commerce and Sava Tosic, judge's assistant at the Privrevac Court of Commerce. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed these candidates, in the light of the fact that it is the judicial assistants, who have achieved excellent results in their previous work, that the judges, the judges who are competent to monitor and assess their work, have received the highest marks for their work in the previous period, i.e. the evaluations "in particular, stand out", that they have been supported by the meetings of all judges from which all judges are from, and the meetings of all judges who are a direct judge, that they enjoy the reputation and trust in the courts in which they have so far performed judicial-helpling functions, that it is an experienced judicial assistant, and that the opinion of the Commission of the VSS who has held talks with all the candidates, that these candidates, by esteeming their previous work of power to perform all the tasks, when it comes to an extremely responsible function, is extremely difficult, but it is very important for this country. I note that the biographies and these candidates, candidates for the selection of judges who are first elected in the judicial office, their work results, the results related to the statement of meetings of all judges, their success at the university, the success of the course of the judicial exam, the studies of the post-graduates, the published professional papers, the participation in professional meetings and seminars, that all these are in the context of the proposal submitted to this Parliament. Appreciateing your precious time, honourable MPs, I do not think it was necessary for each candidate to be specifically read complete biographies, because it would take more than a few hours, noting that, as representatives of the VSS, we are open to all issues that would potentially arise in discussion and belief, that the candidates proposed by the VSS, that they are candidates who are professional, responsible, safe, worthy of performing these significant functions, that their choice in the courts for which they have applied and for whom they are proposed at this session of parliament, raise the level of how the work of these courts is going to raise efficiency in the work of the courts and that they will raise quality in the work of the courts and the overall Serbian judiciary, and that we believe that we all share the common goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13849	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on my behalf a delegation of the National National Assembly of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria led by his Excellency Dr Muhammad Larbi Old Kalif, president, who is currently following a part of today's session from the grand hall gallery. Please welcome the guests. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13850	The Honorable Presidency, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the passing of this law preceded a live, serious and comprehensive public debate that lasted several years ago. I would especially like to highlight the activities of the Alertor Protection Project, which began in July 2012 and was implemented by the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. This meant a lot of round tables and stands in a dozen important Serbian cities where journalists, representatives of the judiciary, representatives of the civil sector, and alarmers met. And this project of the conference, as well as numerous media interactions on this subject, public hearings, and our discussion today, and also just the adoption of the law, which I believe we will adopt unanimously, must send a very clear message, that alarmers are not inducers, but people are worthy of every respect and that disclosure of information on violations of regulations, violations of human rights, abuse of public authority, as well as the disclosure of information to prevent life, health, safety and the environment, as well as damages to large scales, honorable and responsible matters, and that it is worth every praise. Although alarming as a legal concept is quite new, only alarming is not. It's real human behavior and honorable human action, voice-lifting, to warn others of the dangers and risks and many religious philosophical and moral teachings, using this story of the individuality that speaks of the truth, to warn of abuses, ignorance, and damages that can come from the same. Experience confirms that alarmers are often more useful than police. Therefore, at first glance, the proposal to introduce a rewarding mechanism that exists in some countries, primarily in the United States, and which has proved to be very successful there. However, the practice so far has shown that the financial compensation is extremely sensitive and that, as such in our space, with our cultural mileage, it probably deserves a serious review and therefore it is clear why we are not and why the promoter did not put it into this law. We have a serious fear that perhaps snitches, informants, mercenaries might surface and that something like this could devalue this truly valuable and quality bill. Today, only four EU countries have legal frameworks to protect alarmers that are considered advanced, namely Luxembourg, Romania, Slovenia and the United Kingdom. However, strengthening the alarming rights is a trend currently being implemented in many EU countries. The long preparation of this law, as well as the participation of the most prominent experts in the area, but also the adopted experiences of others, will allow Serbia to get one of the most progressive laws in the area. Encourage the alarmers, protect their identity and prevent retribution against them, three are corners of stones that make up and make up this law. The effective protection of alarmers encourages people to oppose corruption in their environment and to report injuries that authorities could not detect with other mechanisms. I remind you that some of the biggest corruption affairs in Serbia have just been reported by alarmers, but instead of being protected, those persons have been exposed to retribution. Some of them have lost their jobs, some have not been fired, but are being threatened and rebuked. Some of them have even been prosecuted, and this is the most obvious proof that the protection provided to alerters by the Anti-Corruption Agency is not enough. By the law we pass, those who report corruption, protection against possible retribution, will be brought to justice in a procedure that is quite different from the ordinary trial before the court. The deadlines are absolutely urgent and what is most important, that the burden of proof is transferred to the employer. It is predicted that the alarmer may request a temporary measure within eight days of due judicial protection, without the consequence of being reinstated to his post. Protection will be provided both to private, public sector figures. The alarmer's anonymity is also guaranteed by this law, which is one of the basic principles that must be respected. Corruption and breach of public interest can be reported to the Citizens' Protector where they work, the prosecution, as well as the Anti-Corruption Agency. Of course, the law also provides for fines, from 50 to 500 thousand for employers, unless the alarmer or the connected person protects him from harmful action and takes measures to stop them and achieve its consequences. What I also want to point out and what is also very important is the other side of the medal. It is very good that this law protects the employer from the possible abuse of the right to alert, and that is what should be commended. This prevents alarmers from becoming blackmailers and is a special quality of this joint proposal. Corruption deeply pervades all spheres of our lives, from corruption that hurts citizens most, which is corruption in health care and corruption in education, to abuse in the work of the judiciary and the police. Nepotism and online employment are the most visible part of this chain. In particular, corruption has affected smaller places and environments far from the public eye. Sandzak, like the border region but also the crash site of different influences, is particularly sensitive, vulnerable, for all types of corruption. I have already spoken from this honorable place several times about corruption and the abuses that have taken place and that exist today in the region where I come from. I'll remind you that Mr. Secretary is from my neighborhood, too. So I think we're going to take these issues seriously and put an end to it, which was also our main message in the campaign, but also in our overall operation, the bad, retrograde and corruption stuff that was happening and that was happening on the ground. Here I mentioned corruption and abuses in the New Market Forest Administration, which was just pointed out by one of the employees who remained unscheduled after a new work systematization. This is how he was rewarded by the warden whose abuses he was pointing to. The forest is being punished, the woods are still devastated, and abuses continue. With these laws, such people, who are eager to repair the situation on the ground, who are eager to correct and stop theft on the ground, will be allowed to receive public support, but also to prevent their punishment and to prevent cases like this, which I have already pointed out, never happen again. That's why I think corruption is the most important problem this country has right now. A problem that is so much so that it's not just an obstacle to reforms, it's threatening to bring down the entire structure of the state. I think it's clear that you can't reform education if you don't solve the problem of corruption. But you can't reform the judiciary either, and we are in the active process of reforming the judiciary, and that will be the most active and difficult link and the problem that we have to solve in the process of joining the European family of peoples. I have to say, it's said in a proverbial way that there's been a lot of corruption in Sandzak's judiciary. There is a lot of corruption in the region in other bodies representing and representing the state, and that is one of the most important problems, in addition to the most important problem for citizens where I come from, and that is the equal representation of Bosniaks in all institutions, especially ministers, in the judiciary, prosecutors. We advocate that people from the locals, regardless of nationality, and must be satisfied with these basic European and the principles of our country, be representatives and that they must be taken special care of their reputation. They must be honest and honest people, who have serious careers behind them. I believe that this reconstruction of the judiciary, which I am truly convinced to miss, and us with you, that these found and bad things in the judiciary, in my area, do not remain unsolved. I am convinced, believing and knowing you personally, you and your ambition and your desire to work, that we will get a much better judiciary, which will be proud of all the citizens of Sandzak and all the citizens of this country. Because, just now, the presidents of the courts, judges and representatives of the prosecution are the Republic of Serbia in all its parts. Their authority depends on what the authority of this state will be. I'm asking you to take this question seriously. We stand in service, as coalition partners and as serious and honest people, to settle these things in the right way. We love this country and we want it to be effective at all its levels. The political parties, unfortunately, were part of the corruption divide, and I think it must be interrupted, very harshly and very clearly. As a society, how much we have narrowed down in corruption and as individuals feared to report to corruption the best illustrates an example of a mayor in southern Serbia who was not allowed to report a subordinate due to a coalition agreement. We'd be on a huge win to turn this thing around, to report corruption to become a way of life, to make non-reporting the same as complicity, and that if we see what we're saying, it means we've passed the mob law. Therefore, our sincere desire to adopt this law is the best proof that this ruling coalition has decided to seriously clash and conflict with all forms of corruption, for the benefit of Serbian citizens. We in the SDP are aware that corruption particularly destroys and affects people living from their work, and in order to enable the recovery of the economy, the long-term growth of employment and the well-being of the population, corruption must be eradicated in all its visions. With the belief that the adoption of this law is a big step in preventing corruption, we in the voting day will all-out support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13851	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13852	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, representatives of the justice ministry, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, we are facing a long-awaited Law on the Protection of Alertors today. I must mention, in this place, that the need to regulate this issue has actually come from a group of countries to fight corruption, which, after the first and second rounds of evaluation that were made with us in 2005, gave a recommendation to our country and that is the recommendation 21, which seems to me, in the reasons for the adoption of this law, which refers to the right to the protection of alarmers and it, of course, makes it actually limited the scope of that same alarmer protection. This recommendation was given in 2006. In Serbia, the deadline for the same treatment was December 2007. A conclusion was later made that Serbia was only partially acting on this recommendation. A new deadline has been given, and after that, certain measures have been adopted, in three regulations – the Law on civil servants, the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Law on the Free Access of Information of Public Meaning. At that point, it is certain that those measures provided for by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act had the greatest effect, but, if we look at today's point of view, the necessity to regulate this issue in a systematic way, I don't think it should be questioned. I think that over the past decades, we've all witnessed together the fact that as a society, we've narrowed it down to corruption, on the one hand, that takes away significant resources and that's ruining the state's progress. On the other hand, I'm free to say that we've been scratched into a Javezlu, which is why we often have all those bad things happening to us in the country, and then we're wondering how something like that could have happened in the first place. These events seem to me to be due to everything that has been happening to us through a more recent history, but they in themselves do not pose such a danger as what has been imposed on us and our society as a collective consciousness, which consists in the following: that we no longer believe in each other, which is why we do not even report the most serious violations of the rules, or laws, which are why we all collectively suffer. There are numerous cases of corruption that we know about, which we are publicly silent about. There are a number of cases of various abuses that also represent a public secret, which we are all silent about again, and there are numerous attempts by every authority to get in the way. The absolute passivity of those who should be proletaries of such a struggle, but for some reason their actions are permanently lagging behind. It is definitely a fact that we lack more initiative and more courage, missing, of course, both faith in state and other bodies that will act on the application. When things are seen like this, it seems to me that it becomes clear that tolerance from breaking the rules is not only an individual problem, but it is actually a general problem for citizens to first-rate passiveness in terms of detecting all of this and punishing those who break the rules. Today, Serbia has a chance to get the legal definition and legal protection of alarmers for the first time. The aim of this law must be to just increase the courage of those who are still considering whether to act on a plan to expose crimes or, even more simply, to expose a number of stealing methods. At the same time, we need to know that now that we're promoting alarmers, we can't do it in words only to some, now still, by the bill, and by the next day and by the passed law, we have to do it in actions, because if we agree that we're the only alarmer not being protected, it's absolutely going to be a message, and it's going to be a negative message, and other alarmers that we need to be passive, that we should keep quiet, and they should simply be murky about the corruption they've noticed, or, metaphorically speaking, if we kill just one alarmer, we can be sure that we've mutilated dozens of them, even hundreds. The Christian Democratic Party, as well as the Serbian Renewal Movement, will support the bill because it considers its introduction necessary. I have submitted, of course, several amendments, nothing strange, as always, to which I have actually tried to improve this text of the bill, and in order to give as many guarantees to alarmers as possible to be protected. I have also submitted amendments that this law needs to be systematically or, to be more precise, in a more systematic way to link with the Law on the Prevention of Labour Abuse, but also to give alerters in the court procedure as many guarantees as possible regarding the protection of their rights. I think for some reason, it's unnecessarily narrowed down in this bill the notion of abuse from that concept of abuse that he's listed and that he's explained in the Law on Preventing Labour Abuse. Where, through the amendments, I was able to influence this law to dissipate formality, that's what I did, of course. On the other hand, it seems to me, at least that's my personal opinion, that by promoting criminal acts to protect alarmers, in fact, to give away sources of information, and in particularly difficult cases, it's considered a crime. I couldn't do something like that through the amendment. The reasons are simple – there should be regulation of the entire legal text. However, this opportunity should be used to open another topic which is and has to do with the alarmers and their protection. In fact, it seems to me that as a state, but as well as society, we have not done much about our citizens being educated about what a violation of the rules is, and what a violation of the rules is not, which are the rights of citizens who, under this law, can report and what they can expect about it. For this reason, I believe it is extremely important that our activity is not only stopped at the adoption of this law, but it must be taken a step further by explaining to the public that and how desirable it is to report all violations of the rules and that they can expect the protection of the state, since such a law also provides for their judicial protection. Given that I am also president of the national GOPAK branch in Serbia, I think it is extremely important and I call on all my members, but also all the MPs to take part and to educate the public on this together at least through the national GOPAK branch. We must, in fact, make sure that the alarming becomes a rule, that there is no exception, because everything that is the exception is, unfortunately, very easily extinct. That practice that becomes a rule causes fear among those who need to respond to the alarmer, and in fact give the alarmer himself hope that his information will be properly used and used for a legitimate purpose. That's why I am before the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia as the applicant for the amendment suggested that in the event of external alarming, an alarmer may be addressed not only to the direct head of the state organ, but to absolutely any state authority that has the authority in which the alarmer is operating, because it is natural for some people to believe one, some more trust other bodies, or some more trust the authorities directly superior to that body in which the alarmer works, and others have confidence in that so-called to call it the third degree of hierarchy. As every alarmer is absolutely valuable, I don't think we should give up those alarmers who give their trust to the highest state authorities. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this House of the People’s Assembly can actually do a lot of things and contribute to the support of the alarming man. It is not a rare number of those examples where representatives in this assembly have remained deaf to the absolute cry of those who have had the courage to act in order to comply with the rules. It is not a rare number of cases where representatives of this National Assembly allowed the abuse of alarmers. I believe that alarmers, but also anything that is equal to them, must not be allowed to be used for political purposes, nor in any party accounts, because this sends a bad message to all those who have given us such information, trust. On the contrary, I believe that any information must be treated with appropriate attention and appropriate consideration. Otherwise, it seems to me that we will only cut the branch on which we sit in the front row as citizens, and only then as MPs. I will use it to remember this place and some people who have absolutely contributed to their fight against corruption, who have worked hard to detect and expose the most serious violations of the law. In such people, I primarily choose the late Verica Barac. I think it's worth her name's worth absolutely on any topic that has anything to do with fighting corruption, and elsewhere, I'm going to allow myself to be personal, and I'm picking up Dr. Vladan Batic as well. Someone, of course, is on the one hand, and someone on the other hand has experienced all the problems that a man actually faces in his work when he encounters the most difficult, the most large forms of violation of the right that he then exposes, and that is what we are now able to give a real name – the alarmer. In such situations, threats, attacks, attempts to spark a person's personality are simply not rare. That's why I think that actually this law is just the first step in affirming what we once called a humanity in Serbia, because watching lawlessness and not doing absolutely nothing about it means simply supporting it. A stable and glorious state was only when Serbian hosts wouldn't allow anyone to break the rules that had been established. I think it's finally time to get those values back, and if we don't get them back, then at least let's try to do it. It is time to explain to the citizens that applications should not be seen as treason, but rather as defenses of the greatest values without which we will never, as a nation or as a state, fight this modern monster. Accordingly, in front of the Demochrist Party, I believe that every member of this House needs at least his own behavior to contribute to the affirmation of what we are discussing today. Of course, by adopting this law, Serbia will be placed in the circle of the first countries in the region that have legally protected the alarmers, and it seems to me that among the EU Member States only three or four countries, correct me if I am wrong, they have the same name law. On the other hand, the fact that most EU member states do not have an alert law suggests that there is simply no need for such legal regulation, and that there is nothing controversial, since corruption is much smaller there and is not expressed as it is in us, at every step, so if I am to be honest, and at every absolutely bizarre level. Of course, I will agree with all those who both Mr. Sasa Jankovic and Mr. Rodoljub Sabic pointed out about this law, and what was already said here when the minister as a representative explained himself. Of course, in the end, I have to point out that you read the amendments that have been submitted well, because I think I can do a lot to help make this text of the law more quality. I don't want to explain why the amendments are submitted, they always seem, of course, for good purposes and for one purpose only, which is that we have as high-quality bill proposals as possible. On the grounds of many claims that this law could have been better, I will agree and I will say – yes, as any, absolutely any law can always be better, as absolutely any law can be more meaningful, but ultimately, we could be better, but for some reason we are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13853	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13854	Thank you. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary, it took the motions more than 50 minutes to explain to us all the proposals that we are discussing today, proposals that are not interlinked and conditioned, and yet they are joined under one debate, agenda points. It thus once again shows how much debate in this House is trying to disenfranchise itself. Now I need to talk about the different proposals in 20 minutes, as long as it belongs to all the heads of Parliament, to make a statement about all these laws or proposals for decisions, specifically in this case, and one international agreement. Let me take my turn. First and certainly most important, what marks the debate is the Alertr Protection Act. The good thing is that Serbia will get one such law and is the fact that it is one law that many countries do not yet have in this legal system. He said the law was initially envisaged by the Action Plan to implement the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. That's where the first problem comes in. The Action Plan envisioned that the law be passed in the Assembly seven months after the adoption of the Action Plan. The action plan came in August last year. So it's been about 15 months since that moment, and we're just talking about this law today. Why does it matter to us? It is important because this law provides for some deadlines for entry into force. It will start to apply, if adopted as proposed, only six months from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger". For these six months, the law provides for the minister to adopt a sublegal act within three months, which would allow businesses and public institutions to adopt their rules to regulate the internal alarming process within the next year. The question arises what will happen in time until all these regulations are passed? The particular reason for concern is the fact that, as someone mentioned today, NADD says the state is late with the adoption of 162 sublaws for more than 922 days on average. Now we have to trust the Minister that within 90 days, he will bring in a sublegal act. We suspect it will be so, precisely because it is the practice of this government to be late and that delay is on average 922 days. The reason why we suspect is because the government did not respect the resolution on the legislative policy adopted in this parliament, which says that, with each bill, it must be passed on to the Assembly and models of sublegal acts. The resolution was adopted last year in this parliament, and it is not constantly respected. In many laws, we talked about where the sublaws are. They must be with the law, or model of sublegal acts, to be here to make sure the government is ready and that the government will bring a sublegal act within the prescribed time limit. Without it, this law will not protect anyone in the next year. There will be no sublegal acts, there will be no possibility because employers and founders will not pass a law on an internal organisation, or a procedure to conduct an internal alarm, we will not be able to implement this law. If this is one of the important mechanisms, and it should be, in order to fight corruption, we will not be able to use this mechanism for at least a year with these deadlines that the proposer proposes. We have suggested that these deadlines be reduced, to avoid the hole that will exist in Serbia's legal system if these deadlines remain this way. Our proposal is also that the law changes its name, that it's called an alarming and alarming law. He said here that there was a fellow who had been alarming for a long time, that it was one way to fight corruption, and that only recently was the law to regulate the protection of alarming officers. We think it'd be better if the law were called that. He also spoke of the starting model from which this law was set up by the Ministry's working group as a model that had been prepared by the Republic's Information Protection Trustee for more than a year through a debate. What is interesting, however, is that in this version that lies ahead today, there are no very important solutions from this model, which shifts the central protection of alarmers to independent institutions. In particular, this model meant that the Manchester was centrally protected, so from the moment the alarmer launched the alarming process to the court's decision. The promoter has defined that everything is done by the court in an emergency procedure. The problem is the state of our judiciary. The minister himself spoke of the manual being prepared, of the need to train judges to do so. So, again for some time it takes, and it's off, I don't mean by accident, the Manchester, or perhaps the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is the only state institution that currently has some kind of experience in the protection of alarmers, because in accordance with the law it passed a rule that was declared unconstitutional a month ago and that decision has to be announced for another two months, three months has been delayed publishing that decision. But there is some experience in this agency and that experience will not be used. Is the reason the Agency has conducted the procedure, or has initiated proceedings against the minister in accordance with the law and with its powers to resolve in this Parliament, which cannot come to this Parliament's agenda? There are a few solutions here in this law that we don't think are good. The minister said that alarmers are all who, through their work hours, come up with some information and can initiate the procedure. Work engagements that are not just permanent employment, but any work or volunteering or any way to obtain information. The law further provides that only enterprises or institutions with more than ten employees have an obligation to adopt their own regulations. The fact is that there are companies, some and very successful, if you look at the APR, if you can access, with less than ten employees working with the state, doing big jobs with the state and with private businesses, who have less than ten employees. The question is, what will happen in these companies if there is no adoption of that rule? There's talk about ten employees companies. Some companies may have fewer than ten employees, and work a lot more people, volunteers or forced to work to preserve social assistance, as Minister Vulin promotes these days. This law in this form isn't good enough for us to be able to support it today. There are a lot of places where it can be fixed. Unfortunately, it was impossible for the amendments to fix the idea that existed, I repeat, in a model the minister said was starting, and apparently it was not starting, that the central level of protection should be transferred to one of the independent institutions. It was simply impossible for the amendments to change, but we gave a few amendments, first of all, to cut these deadlines, to avoid that there was a legal gap, because when the Constitutional Court decision is put out of force in two months, the Alertr Protection Regulation, and this law will not enter for six months, it will start to apply, so there will be no protection within that period of four months. If it continues with the practice of delaying sublegal documents, then the period, without any alarming protection, will be much longer. Now I would like to say a few sentences on the other points of the agenda, and this is the proposal for a decision to elect the president of the general and special jurisdiction. I don't know if this is an example of alarming? I got a memo about the election of the president of the Panchev Criminal Court. There, as it stands here, you can see in the proposal, there were three candidates proposed. When all the judges decided, i.e. the judges who took part in the decision of 11, on who should be given the highest trust of their colleagues, proposed candidate Ljiljana Kosutić received one vote of 11, probably her own, v.d. The president of the court got two votes, and the third candidate, I don't know if I should say her name, because I don't know what law to protect this information she delivered, got eight votes. The fact is that this vote is not the only parameter for deciding who should be a candidate for the president of the court. Yes, it is important, but it is not unique and it is not decisive, but it is interesting to see here in an explanation for some other judges that wherever there was this unanimous support, it is stated in this proposal in selecting some other judges. So the President of the General Court in Dimitrovgrad and the Basic Court in Zrenjanin said that all judges unanimously declared themselves and supported one candidate, although there were more candidates. It is then stated that, in addition to this decision, the following criteria and years of study internship, the results of the work, were delivered to the Court's work programme, as well as the impression that the candidates had made on the commission during the talks. We heard from the representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary that, at the end of September, it seems to me, that talks were held with all candidates and what is interesting, in the elections for this court, in Pancheva, that when there was the same competition for the same place, at the beginning of this year, two of these three candidates were then reported, and then none of them had made a positive impression on the commission that had been talking and then the President of the Criminal Court was chosen in Panchev, and now a few months later one of the candidates, a candidate who had clearly not made a good enough impression at the time, left a good enough impression and suggested, although I repeat, she received only one vote at the clarification of all her colleagues. I want to ask, I don't want to accuse, can we get a reason for what the High Council of Justice has defined? I want to ask, since it is said in each of these candidates, that each candidate has received, in accordance with Article 12, a decision on the setting of criteria, measures, evaluations of expertise, to meet the conditions following the decision of the session of all judges, in each of these judges, of those 30 candidates, did it happen to anyone that did not meet these conditions, which, of course, everyone here who proposed met these conditions, otherwise could not be proposed? It would be good to know a little more about these candidates. Let's just say we should elect the President of the General Court in Leban, who was one of the six candidates. We have no information as to how the judges pleaded there, but we know that Mr Svetomir Cvetkovic was the chairman of the SNS district board in Leskovac, at one point in his engagement. That's not controversial. He wasn't a judge at the time, he could have been engaged, but it's interesting that he was among the six candidates proposed today to be elected president... It's not. We've been checking something, we've come to that. If I'm wrong, I apologize right now. Maybe someone with the same name, and if he hadn't done it, he wasn't in that position. In any case, these decisions do not give hope that we will have a free and independent judiciary, which should this law be adopted in this form, as proposed, be among other things and deal with the protection of alarmers. I repeat, it is not by chance that some independent institutions, as a central layer of protection, exist in countries that have such laws, are not necessarily, there are other solutions, but there are solutions where it is done. We will very actively participate in the debate on amendments to this bill, try to convince you that our solutions are more meaningful and celery and that we will pass a good law, which will not result in what the minister did when he last proposed amendments and amendments to the law, to the best extent and confidence, said he would contribute to the legal security of citizens and the legal system of the country. The passing of these laws has led us to have for more than two months a strike of lawyers in Serbia, a complete blockade of the judiciary, the great damage this country has suffered daily and that we will stop this practice of not listening to each other and not respecting the arguments heard in this Assembly, but also in public debate when it comes to the adoption of some laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13855	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13856	Thank you, Madam President. The Rules of Procedure, Article 106(1), have been injured that the speaker can only speak about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. The previous speaker, Mr Djurisic, spoke in a good part of the presentation about the very concept of the agenda and the compatibility and compatibility of the agenda points, deeming it inappropriate to combine two laws and four decisions in one continent. However, since we live in the time of the Internet and in the time of the availability of information and the time when this information is kept, I was rude enough to investigate and, here in my hand, I have one agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was signed by the assembly majority to which Mr Djurisic belonged, in which it is merged, imagine gentlemen 57 points of the agenda. And that's the agenda since 29 May 2009. There's a joint Law on Plant Protection Subsidies, and a Law on Radio-Difusion. I don't see what this is all about. So the Law on the Safety of Traffic on Roads and the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Variety of Cultural Expressions, the Law on Food Safety and the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. So the General Product Safety Act and the Wine Act, etc. 57 points of the agenda didn't bother, are now in the way of two laws and four decisions. And that's not all. This isn't individual, this isn't just one in four years. Next, February 29th, 2012, the last session of the Assembly in the eighth assembly, brought together 27 points. In those 27 points, I also find a Law on the Confirmation of the Galenite Loan.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13857	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13858	Here I go. And I wish we had a code on alarmers at the time. Whatever his name was, it's likely that some things in Galennica wouldn't have happened then...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13859	Thank you. You're right, MP, article 106 speaks of it as talking only about the agenda point, but also the chairman who chaired the session in that part, and I think that MPs can also talk more about it than the hard matter. He was still talking about the process of joining the agenda, although we discussed it at the beginning of the session. If you want, we'll vote on the injury. (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. Thank you, thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. There is no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP. We've known so much, we've all been in Parliament for a long time, and we know it doesn't exist. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13860	I thank the president. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, the proposed alert law will round up the necessary legal framework to continue the strong fight against corruption. So the NS parliamentary group in voting day will support the bill's proposal. The need to pass this law is also because so far there has been no single register when it comes to the protection of alarmers, so this law extends a circle of protected persons to people who are constantly employed and to those who are for a certain time, to the private, public sector, therefore, to all institutions in Serbia. Also, the key to this law is the protection of those who report corruption, but I think that the bill should also be observed in a slightly wider context, in the context of attracting foreign investors and creating the best conditions for domestic investors, as alarmers indirectly protect all entities from seeking or conditionaling bribery in the municipal, or city administration, public service in public procurement. The law in Articles 3 and 4 explicitly prescribes the protection of alarmers. Article 10 is amended as follows: However, here I believe that the position of the 5th same member is too general, and in some ways I would say not clear this provision, as it provides that information on the identity of the alarmer should not be disclosed to the person against whom the application was filed, unless the special law requires otherwise. What exactly did the bill promoter have in mind here? The law stresses urgency, and we here as a parliamentary group responded with an amendment. We have proposed further acceleration, because we believe there should be shorter deadlines for the employer to act on the information, i.e. informing the alerter of the outcome of the proceedings, that it does not last 15 days. Some colleagues here have suggested three days, we think it should be eight days. In any case, this 15-day deadline, given the importance and urgency of law enforcement, is in the opinion of my colleagues from the NS Group and myself, a debt. The same applies when it comes to an external alarming institution and the deadlines for the handling of authorised authorities. There is also a broad and vague provision similar to that of Article 10 in this Member of the Law in paragraph 6. It is said that the authority that received the alert notice, which did not give consent to its identity, is obliged to request the alerter's consent before doing so. This is an absolutely logical solution, but even in this place a formulation is used – unless the law requires otherwise, which leaves room for different interpretations, and perhaps even to reveal the identity of alarmers, to another body, and contrary to its will. I think that the good and provision in Article 19 is Article 2 which clearly regulates the public alert procedure. It is insisted that the alarmer is obliged to respect the presumption of the defendant's innocence, the right to the protection of personal data, and that he does not endanger the conduct of the court proceedings. I find this because we have all kinds of information in the tabloid media, which is a particularly sensitive issue, and that in one bombic way, unchecked or completely incorrect information often caused by irreparable damage to the persons to whom such information applies. The law stipulates that the alarmer has the right to compensation for damages done to him for pointing to illegal treatment. It is particularly important to define the judicial protection of alarmers. As far as the proceedings are concerned, I think it is a good thing that the law provides for several exceptions to the classical litigation procedure, first of all, that an investigative principle is being introduced and that the court is given the opportunity to decide in an urgent procedure on a proposal for a temporary measure which cannot be done as a rule. As far as the bill is concerned, I have only one further dilemma, and I would point out that under the draft of this law, the alarmer's rights are limited if the information contains classified information, then the alarmer can't get the public excited if the law is not different. In the first working version of the law, it was stated exactly what classified data were, and now the solution is that any crime could be declared a secret and thus prevent public information and alarming. I think this may have been a matter of consulting the Prophet and staying on the exact terms that this information refers to. In any case, as I said, the importance of this law is to continue the strong fight against corruption, and the NS parliamentary group will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13861	The word is Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13862	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, respected colleagues, it is good that Serbia finally gets an alert law. I think it's very useful for our society and it's useful for the moment we live in. This certainly is a step forward in bringing our legal regulations and our legislation into line with EU law and the standards that exist on our continent, especially in the area of civil rights protection. How important the role of alarmers in the construction of a democratic society and in the functioning of institutions is seen only on the basis of the fact that about 40% of all cases of corruption in the world is revealed precisely thanks to alarmers. So, 40%, while the percentage of abuses detected through internal audit is about 17%, and the police themselves are just slightly more than 1% of corruption crimes. However, what leaves all of us with a kind of bitter taste, and what fellow Djurisic talked about, is the way in which the government and the Ministry of Justice came to the text of this bill, led above all by ignoring the model of the law that the working group gathered around the Commissioners Sabic and the Ombudsman Jankovic, and even some of the untruths that were made public about the deadlines for the adoption of the law. The reminders for the sake of me will say that you, Minister Selakovic, said on 5 December 2013, and "Tanjug" passed on, quoting - until half of next year, thinking, therefore, in mid-2013, a draft law on the protection of alarmers will be drawn up. It was only the end of 2013 that the draft was completed and, behold, more than a year had passed since the promise was made. In this same building that we are in today, Prime Minister Vukic said in his exhibition on 27 April this year, quotes from a stenogram- already during June will be a law on the protection of alarmers, which will protect citizens who are ready to report the corruption they see in connection with the work they are doing, finished quote. If I'm not mistaken, it's November, and the prime minister said June. But the smallest thing is, believe me, in the amount of unfulfilled promises by the prime minister. I must say why I am now quoting here the minister of justice and the prime minister, regarding this bill. Because on 23 October this year, the Constitutional Court declared an unconstitutional internal Anti-Corruption Agency Regulation, which was the only dam and at least formal protection, and I would say straw saves people who dare to talk about corruption and abuse in institutions. We now need to make an express law here that will very quickly prove to be a bad solution because of some of his provisions, which I'm going to do here in part and explain. The same story was with the Labour Act, which you presented as the best in the world this summer, remember, and these days the media are writing that you are preparing a new labour law. That's what happened with the bankruptcy law. Minister Sertic is already announcing changes, etc. It's all the essential consequence of one man's irresponsibility and desire to pass hundreds of laws if necessary, wanting to present himself to a reformer and create an atmosphere in the country that is today, which reminds him of lawlessness and anarchy and what some would say even looks like the 1990s. The alarming law could have been resolved in a better way, ministers, as early as July of last year when the Information Commissioner delivered the law model to the justice ministry. But what was the problem? Here, I'd like you to tell us here why this problem occurred when you got that model back in June last year? This model of the law was made with the support of the UK and the Kingdom of the Netherlands embassies, you know that, and it was done by experts independent of the government and by the Ministry of Justice. Support for the expert task force was provided by two US experts and one U.K. expert. The law has cost the country and Serbian citizens zero dinars because it is a donation. Now that it seems recently, Prime Minister Vucic, Minister Selakovic, particularly Minister Vulin is making a move from everything that comes to us from the modern civilization of Europe and the world, and it is as if he is questioning the idea of a great Europe, which someone has been talking about recently, and it seems to me that you also like to say that the draft, which has been delivered to you, has been done by some spies, foreign mercenaries and others who want to threaten the implementation of reforms in Serbia. It's no problem that for the last year and a half we have received a bill that is comprehensive and can provide protection to alarmers, that whoever tries to report corruption may know that they will not suffer rematchism from the employer and the manager, but most independent experts, ministers, as you know, say the law is bad, this bill that you delivered to us. It's not just DS that says it now. That says legal profession and people of reputation. What kind of bill is this, Minister, is best told that the bill consists of 41 members, and let's say "Transparency of Serbia", which has delivered to all parliamentary groups an initiative to amend members, there are as many as 42 amendments. So, practically on average one amendment per member of the law. All groups have received these suggestions, as you know, and I know that you can say, as well as Prime Minister Vukic, that you have not read anything stupider about it in your life, but I think you may say that it is a conspiracy and intention to destabilise the Serbian government and reform, and you may say that these reference organisations with an international reputation are part of some conspiracy to destroy the government. Otherwise, yesterday they issued a statement "Transparency of Serbia" related to this bill, which they say – at the request of the Ministry of Information, we received a number of documents, the minutes from the working group's session on the draft law, the figures on proposals on the first draft laws that were adopted, the opinion of the European Commission, but not the documents whose composition is an obligation under the Rules of Procedure of the Government, a report with two advertising public debates, which should include a proposal with reasons for their acceptance or refusal. This is the statement "Transparency of Serbia". You'll tell me what this is about. These materials can only read the reasons for rejection for some proposals, but not for most. These data on the discussion with the list refer to proposals from the discussion on the first draft of December 2013, and not to those that gave the significantly modified version of June 2014, completed the quote. Now I ask you, do you think no one will read this and is it possible that a reform government in Serbia, because you call yourself that, directs legislative proposals to Parliament in this way by violating the Rules of Procedure on the work of its own government? You're in violation of your own Rules of Procedure. I mean the Serbian government. And you're breaking all the rules when you propose a law. I have to say here today we need to satisfy a certain form, to pass a law that is a newspaper that is necessary to Serbia, it is necessary to our system. The alarmer's protection is civilizational fluid and democratic fluid and we have to do it, but we need to discuss the law that was prepared with a violation of the procedure prescribed for the preparation of regulations. The fact that citizens will not receive protection in the right sense of that word, which will continue to be clay pigeons if they oppose the entrenched alleged Megatrend experts because it is an important quantity, not the quality of what the ruling party wants them to implement. I don't need to remind here of a worker of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", and you'll remember the example, which as an alarmer discovered organised crime and a million-dollar toll theft through Serbia, through fake software, you remember. Instead, he was fired and returned to work only in September 2010. It all happened with the blessing of your coalition partner, Minister Ilic. Or, I don't need to remind you, for example, of what I have here in front of me, from "The Irons where the ASNS trustee, one of the unions, and the Iron Railway Vehicles factory manager Goran Stanic, was fired and that resignation appeared several times in our media. Why did that happen? Because a man has resented himself. He simply resented himself, made a breach of his work obligation, because on the social network Facebook published a decision to accept the most favourable offer of an appraisal house, whose statement is contrary to the business of the factory and damages its interests and reputation. That's what's said. It is said that he has published a scanned criminal report against Director Milorad Stojkovic in "Zelvos", in which alleged falseties about alleged abuses of directors during the evaluation process have been made. Otherwise, he didn't break the law, because it's not a business secret and it's a public decision. You see what happens to people who are alarming. The man was punished for this, and he received a notice before being fired, because while on the paid leave he came to the factory to hang some union notice on the ad board. He could have been prevented, because before this announcement on Facebook, this worker sent applications to the Ministry and the Privatisation Agency. No one reacted to the ministers, no one, because the privatisation agency told him, look, this is very interesting – we can do nothing, because behind the arrogant director "Zelvos" stands the mayor of Smedereva and the Serbian Progressive Party. The end of the quote. Then he also photographed the director who fired him, as the official car, watch out. This is the favorite theme in this Assembly, the official car "Zelvosa" the director of "Zelvosa" drove in the wedding column at a time when the prime minister is looking for austerity measures, removal of the rolling stock and sharp measures. The man says - first I wasn't sure if it was the car "Zelvoza", but he says - I see, yes, our factory car, the silver "Vectra", with all the towel stuck to the towel and I realize that the director is the man behind the wheel and that he's driving at the wedding column. He still said hello. That's example number two. Now I'm asking you further, this example, a little more banal, and this one with "The Ways of Serbia", a lot more famous in public has shown in some way that in our society, in our system, people who dare to publish or deliver to the public things concerning some illegal, illegal, non-business behavior. You see, then you have an example that no one alive, for example, can say what is happening in the "Electro Networks of Serbia" for example. These are very interesting things. We'll try to get through the amendment process to fix this. We will use what Transparent Serbia has delivered. We support their suggestions. It's a huge number of amendments, unnecessary. It is shown that these solutions are not taken into account, that we have one social disagreement over the bill's proposal, which could have been avoided by a better agreement, by broader dialogue, by a more serious approach to this issue, which is absolutely necessary. That's where we agree with most, we have to protect the alarm man. Will these examples from "The Iron" or "The Way of Serbia" or from many other businesses and institutions in Serbia be more or will we delete them through a legal proposal? Through such a legislative proposal, I am afraid that we will not be precise enough or comprehensive enough, nor will we succeed in achieving the deadlines discussed by fellow Djurisic. I think we are asking that there is no predetermined relationship between the alarmers and the authorities and the company in which there has been a breach of the rules, we are asking to specify a way of determining that the harmful action is due to the alarming and that the harmful action can be related, not only to the violation of the rights, but also to the legitimate interests of the alarmer. We ask that reasonable conditions be prescribed regarding the conscience of the alarmer's behaviour, as a prerequisite for the launch of this special legal protection mechanism. It is now guaranteed even in cases where alerts are being sent to the general known data. So we have one significant inaccuracy. We're asking you to protect the unsolicited alarms, i.e. Those who are unconscious and whose identity was revealed after a confidential address, for example, through an anonymous poll. We're asking to define what will be considered a public alert, because now it's not clear. We ask that a clear distinction be made between the information and the document or any other form of address through which that information is disclosed. We ask to specify the duty of handling anonymous notifications that are backed by evidence. We ask for supervision of the application of this law and the adoption of sublegal acts, and to entrust it to the Ministry of State Administration, not the Ministry of Justice. We ask that the duties of the control authorities be specified, to protect public alerts that follow after the institutions have failed to implement the procedure within the time limit or have done so incorrectly, to adopt a new rule for disclosure of information marked as secrets, which include the possibility that the alarmer in some cases should be contacted by the public, which is not possible now, the rule to assess whether the alarmer has been placed in a more unfavourable position because of its operation, to establish this more clearly, the possibility that the alerter should receive a fair compensation instead of vomiting in the previous situation, to conduct a special procedure for the protection of alarmers, in all cases of retribution, are currently excluded individual labour disputes, to establish a rule that extra-judicial alignment is not the basis for the release of liability of the law, to specify the deadlines, order to take action in favour of the alarming agents, and not only to prohibit those actions that are necessary to harm him, etc. In the end, around the judges, i.e. The President of the Court. You've heard of the case of the Panchev Criminal Court, the president of the Panchev Criminal Court. It is true that Mrs. Kosutić is very close to the SNS and it is true that although she received one vote, that is. Proposed, she will be elected President of the Court. Don't try to play some kind of microcry here. Svetomir Cvetkovic, whom you are proposing to be president of the main court in Lebanon, is a man who was president of the Leban General Court. In that re-election that our government carried out, that man was removed from that place or removed or whatever it was called. Now, meanwhile, he was in the SNS as chairman of the SNS County Committee's Legal Council. That man will be your judge now, everyone knows that. He's not a member of the party, I'm not saying that, but I'm sure he was standing next to Mr. Cvian, if anyone remembers him in this room, when they represented the sixth and some judges who joined the SNS, for whom we begged you for a year, for two years we asked you to give us proof that they joined the SNS, because they can't be party members by law, any. You don't give us that evidence, and you've officially informed us that they've become members of the SNS, the judge, and now one of them is going to the President of the Lebanese Court. I'm asking you, if that's not true, how many of you have Svetomir Cvetkovic in Lebanon in the SNS dealing with legal issues, and they were president of the basic court? If you have two, I apologize to you publicly. If you don't have two or three or five with the same name and last name, then I'm right. Please tell us how these people will contribute to the efficiency of the work of these courts? Why do these people who have received at least the votes of their colleagues based on one of the criteria? What determines them in their efficiency, in reducing the number of cases and asphyxiation of our judicial system? Those are my questions, which I think are well-intentioned. I hope I get an answer at least to one, and, in any case, DS, unless this amendment sequence is adopted that we have submitted, I'm not sure there's any basis to support the Alert Act, and around these judges, that is. President of the courts, I think I'm a citizen, and I've presented to you very clearly, precisely, vividly who the people you're proposing in these places are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13863	The word is Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13864	Article 106(1), Madam President. I respect your desire for this debate to go as widely as possible, but when it goes too wide and when much more is spoken out of the agenda than the agenda, I really have to suggest a breach of the Rules of Procedure. By the way, I'd like to inform the public and the previous speaker that the SNS has no district boards, so he can't even have the heads of the district board's legal councils, but he needs to be informed, not treated like that with some flat-rate evaluations. I have no problem with either when they are used, or I need to punish those who use a service car and tie a towel and be in the wedding column, of course, but I also have a need and a problem when someone is using an official car to cross 652 meters to the Metropol Hotel, and by the way, the official car breaks down and nobody sees anything. However, what I would like the Serbian public to know and that it is fortunate that we have had former alarming and alarming laws, perhaps we would not have had an example of anthropologist Marie Vivod. As an unemployed doctor of science in February 2012, Mr. Minister, she competed in the "Right on First Chance" campaign of the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development in Novi Sad. In April, she was told that her candidacy, for a project that will lead for a year, was accepted. It was then called on that with 13 more unemployed scientists on May 15th, in the middle of the campaign before the second round of elections for the Vojvodina Assembly and the second round of presidential elections, to come to the ceremony handing out and signing contracts and solutions, as well as, beware, in a written invitation, handling with...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13865	Ambassador, time, you've passed past the Rules of Procedure's injuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13866	Just one sentence, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13867	Please, just one.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13868	... As well as handling Dr. Bojan Pajtic. Since she asked for it to be done in a more discreet atmosphere, of course she lost it, and that's why there's an alerter in the territory of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13869	Article 106 says the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. I agree, but my explanation is the same with all the other violations of the Rules of Procedure on Rule 106, as regards the general debate that we are not so strict as to speak only about the norms of the law, but MPs can also use examples from practices that illustrate the need to pass the law, which you did through the violation of the Rules of Procedure. If you want, we'll vote on the injury? No, I don't. I thank you. There's a word for Mr. Alexander Jerkov's injury. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13870	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Babic has done something for the second time that you allow him, which I am convinced you have no right to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13871	Please, what member?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13872	Article 103 which binds MPs in what way they should explain why they believe that you, as chairman, have injured the Rules of Procedure. Mr Babic appeared second time after the speech of the heads of opposition parliamentary groups, falsely advertising Article 106. The Rules of Procedure do not explain why he believes that this member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken, and instead by replicating the speakers who spoke before him. Just please, if that's the rule that we're establishing, that each of us can, in the context of our proposal to advertise to the previous speakers, inform us, so if that's allowed to all of us, we'll all be very happy to abuse the Rules of Procedure in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13873	Thank you. I can't give you a replica right now, because it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So Article 103 speaks in general about the violations of the Rules of Procedure, how this should be done, and in this House, half the MPs are using the breach of the Rules of Procedure to get some time. Ambassador Zoran Babic pointed out that I should and had to warn previous MP Borislav Stefanovic to talk about the agenda point, so he did what the other MPs did. If you want, we'll still vote for Article 103? Yeah. I thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13874	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will indeed be pleased to respond to the remarks that are highlighted here, especially to those that I consider most important, and to those which are spoken in form, some of them, absolute untruths. It's not the first time you've heard something like that, and it's not the first time you've ever answered those questions or those data I've said before, and now I'm going to bring them up again. So is the adoption of the Alertr Protection Act announced within a specified time limit? Yeah, and that doesn't slow down for a single moment. However, what the Republic of Serbia could not influence even when a previous government was in power, even today when we from the SNS are in power, is the work of relevant European and pan-European institutions. Europeans such as the European Commission and pan-Europeans such as the Council of Europe. In fact, we have done well with what someone before has often not, and this is that on the draft laws, i.e. the work versions and the final versions of the draft laws, we have been waiting for the opinions of the European institutions, even when it has delayed the adoption of such legal texts that have been announced at a certain time. In the same way, this proposal for a law on the protection of alarmers among you today is a bill that has received positive, extremely positive opinions from the Council of Europe and the European Commission. Here's a review of the final version of the draft code on the protection of alarmers, which was sent in July 2014 from the Council of Europe, but then we felt it was not convenient to go with that version of the law right before the MPs, because at that moment we still haven't received an assessment from the European Commission. In September 2014, we also received the European Commission's assessment of the text of the law. Whoever takes and carefully reads it, and could do so both the representatives of the government and the representatives of the NGO, can see, first, that on this draft, then the draft, and now the draft law on the protection of alarmers, there are no fundamental objections, that those remarks that are highlighted in 99% of the cases and are respected and entered into the text and that what the European Commission and the Council of Europe say unequivocally are satisfied with the text of the bill and are putting an emphasis on the future application of the law. Why am I quoting this? It's a good thing we got these opinions and those opinions are positive, that's even better. But what's even more important, and as far as one complete untruth here is concerned, the fact that a group of foreign experts, who assisted the working group that developed the model, the task force made up the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personality data, participated in this opinion. But these same foreign experts also participated in a task force formed by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. So this story, which someone would seem to want to exist, about what foreign mercenaries or who they already are, is absolutely one big lie. So, an expert on the protection of alarmers from the United States, Mr. Tom Devine, and an expert on the protection of alarmers from Great Britain, Mr. Paul Stevenson, were involved in both work groups. In front of me is a letter from Mr. Paul Stevenson, where he sets out in the first three sentences the key reasons why the Alert Protection Act is better than the Alert Act model. He says it very taxingly and well. Who cares, can take a look at me and read the whole letter, and can even get a photocopy of that letter. I'll quote what's the essence of his letter. He says: “The reasons for the more acceptableness of the Alerter Protection Act are in the following: firstly, the draft law on the protection of alarmers took part in a much wider circle of subjects than in the design of the law model. ” So Mr. Stefanovic mentioned people I had had opportunities for some of them and as alarmers, as minister of justice and state administration at the time, and to receive at the Ministry, through the association of citizens who gathered them, which is the Association of Citizens "Pistalska". Otherwise, for the first time that a minister of justice received alarms, had a meeting with them and then agreed, on their appeal, when they said – we were not involved in the design of the text of the model, Minister, would you be willing to include us in drawing up the draft law on the protection of alarmers, we reached that agreement, so some of the persons you mentioned here were involved. I'm glad you mention them, and I'm even more pleased to have been able to listen to their demands, to include them in drawing up the text of the bill. Therefore, the first reason is that it is said that the proposal or draft law on the protection of alarms is better than the model, because it has gathered a significantly wider circle of entities that participated in its definition or writing. The second, no less important, and for someone perhaps more important, is the proposal for a law on the protection of alarmors in relation to the model of the law significantly respects the Council of Europe's recommendation on the fight against corruption or on the protection of alarming officers. So, the same two foreign experts who participate in the working group for modeling, participate in the working group to draft this bill, and they say – this bill is better. The alarmers you mentioned are also involved. I will remind the public of something that rocked her more than a year and a half ago, when literally three to four hours after a phone conversation in the Justice Minister's office, the Anti-Corruption Agency's director, the Public Information Protection Officer and the Citizens' Protector, the persons who were at those posts today are still at those posts, to alert me that in the system of criminal sanctions enforcement, more specifically in the Nish Penitentiary Institute, there is a case of endangering an alarmer. Within four hours they received a meeting, immediately said they could not imagine such a meeting in such a short time, and within less than 48 hours it was confirmed that they were right, that she had been suspended employed by KPZ Nis, who was an alarmer, that then acting as justice minister and state administration had taken all necessary measures, sanctioned it. First I sanctioned the warden who threatened the alarmer and then protected the alarm man himself. I am proud of it, as I am proud and of the fact that I am the voice of the alarmer in passing this law and how I can hear. I'm sorry that you only stick to one subject who may be unhappy with the proposed text of the law, so you won't tell who has submitted some amendments yet and also explained them very well. One was said, someone would say the whole truth, and I'll say the half-truth. It's said, you're right, half-truth is incomparably worse than untrue, about, I'll paraphrasise, I can't quote - you've exempt independent institutions and given it to some court. The only independent institution foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the judiciary, defined as such by the Constitution. And imagine, you took someone else and you gave it to the court! Do you know that this model contained a provision that, in my own personal, legal opinion, is on the verge of even a modern concept of rule of law? The model was given to an individual institution the possibility to make a recommendation to the employer, and if the employer does not act according to that recommendation, he is considered to have committed a crime. The prison was scheduled for up to three years. Careful, a prison sentence that doesn't literally tell the court. Give me an example of a single country in the world, not in Europe, in the world, where it exists. And I'll tell you right away, there's no such thing as anywhere. What did we essentially do? Someone said, "We left the model." No, I don't. The first thing, that model was neither draft nor bill. He was legally, technically, not. It's known what the law can look like, you know how to formulate legal standards. It has been said, among other things – The Constitutional Court has issued an unconstitutional rules on the protection of alarmers brought by the Anti-Corruption Agency, so now the alerters will be left unprotected. Absolutely incorrect. The Constitutional Court has not assessed the provision of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act to protect alarmers. Don't fool the public that suddenly, when the Constitutional Court announces its decision, the whole system will collapse. That's not true. The law therefore continues to contain a provision providing alarmers with adequate protection. What else was wrong with the model? Where such an incoherent State authority adopts an appropriate act, there is no possibility of appeal to such act. And what our colleagues in the Council of Europe have told us, without a second thought, is – if you adopt this, you will have a problem at all, not with any other side, but with any domestic investor. If you do not protect, as you protect the alarmer, and the employer, you will create a major system problem. Someone mentioned the possibility of giving a cash reward to an alerter for a job alarm he does. In parallel, there really are cases like this. However, I will give an example, and again as chief associate we had an expert from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, a man who said – don't introduce it at all, because Great Britain, which has the longest protection tradition of alarmers in Europe, left it a year and a half ago. And why did she leave? Because in the alarm system, it caused them total chaos. Two things they said. The first is the cash reward to the alarming officer, and the second is, if I'm not mistaken, the provision of a law that stated that the alarmer must act in good faith. We even have explicitly given the written opinion of the UK's greatest expert, so from the UK, which is one of the largest SE experts in this area, who said – do not enter a provision by which the alarmer must act in good faith, because it will unnecessarily complicate your alarm protection system. Why am I going into detail right now and talking about this? Because certain amendments quoted here that have been made by NGOs through the MPs have decided to submit to the National Assembly, because they are also very well aware of what I am talking about. Because, let's say, "Transparency of Serbia" on 27 written pages, we responded to their demands, and here it is said that we did not. Here, it says, a report on the working version of the draft Code on the Protection of Alarmers after a public debate held between 26 December 2013 and 1 September 2014. What could be the answer to this? Yeah, we're looking for an individual, we've got a joint report here. Yes, but that united report contains what is individually required. If someone asks for an even more detailed report, it's not a problem, they can get that, too. We don't have one, the only reason to hide anything. No, I don't. I think as the Ministry, as a Government, as a National Assembly, as citizens of Serbia, we should be proud of the fact that we are among the first European states to pass the Alert Act. Because we are passing this law with the help of the most innovative experts, not only from Europe, but from the United States. Because we have respected the convincing majority of their recommendations, and because this law will give us solid and good grounds to alerts and alerts in Serbia, first arrange the alarming, and then arrange the alarms and protect them much better than it was before, or much better than it is in any other country of the region. About this opinion, whoever wants to read it, you can even see that European experts say – in your environment there are some legal solutions to the protection of alarmers. They are a bad example and a sign that you should not work, and the draft you have done is something that all others should serve as a good example of legally regulated alarm protection. Moreover, on November 17th, my associates from the Justice Ministry also received a letter from Mr Paul Stevenson, an expert in the Council of Europe, to protect the alarming officers, an expert who participated in the design of the model and in the drafting of the bill, in which he said that he was available to us at all times for all that was said in the parliamentary debate, and it is not clear to someone in parliament to come to Serbia, to come to Belgrade, again, and to explain it to our parliamentarians in a friendly and professional conversation and explain it. I am proud that we have good co-operation with international institutions, and I am proud of the fact that their representatives have also participated in the drafting of this bill. I'm sorry that there are those who are not prepared to criticise and do not have the willingness to say that they once made a mistake. Also, I have to say one thing, because it's been moved here several times, anyone who wrote any model of the law, through only one MP, could have suggested it here to the National Assembly, over just one. What wasn't done. As the judiciary should be independent in making court decisions, as the government should be independent in the exercise of executive power, so the National Assembly should be and is independent in law making. It's something here, and I really have to look back on it, one of my colleagues said there was one reasonable doubt that the sublaw would be passed within the deadline. I'll tell you right away, it'll be delivered long before that deadline, because they're all set and I can do it with pride and no problem at all. I mean, and let me have my own opinion, this is my opinion as a lawyer and as someone acting as justice minister. I don't think there's an example in parliamentary practice where the government submits drafts to the Assembly of Sublaws, because the government doesn't need to know in what form and how the National Assembly will adopt some law. I think it's a little illogical, a little bit more illogical, and in doing so, it's not clear to me that there is, perhaps, a colleague Martinovic knows it more than I do, a man has dealt with both administrative and constitutional law, including parliamentary law, which, in practice, is also a theory, and I'm not familiar with the fact that a representative body is involved in sublegal acts. It is in every democratic state the jurisdiction of the executive government. But we don't have a problem with that either. And not only the sublegal act, but also the manual on which the expert training of judges will be done, the commentary of the law. So they're ready for the press. Why didn't they go to the press? Well, depending on what kind of law will be passed, we're not going to prejudge that. But is everything ready? Yes, it is. It's even ready to train the judges to apply. There's no reference here to any exclusion from the application of this law, this is about creating a good system of judicial protection for alarmers. A temporary measure needs to be taken and can be brought exclusively by the court and no one else. And we're willing, someone said, you have to train the judges. Whoever's in charge must be trained to apply this law. Is that the judge, is that the trustee, is that the protector, is that the agency? Whoever he is, he has to prepare himself for the application of the new law. Therefore, and to conclude, once again with full pride, I point out-- this bill is a product of good and quality co-operation, international institutions with a wide range of participants making this bill in Serbia, and they came from both the judiciary, from the prosecution, from the employers' order, from the union order, from the order of the alarmers themselves, therefore, people who had a direct bad experience with the state when they were alarming and when they pointed out some corruption. One more thing I'd like to point out, where I'm lucky we had five, seven, ten, 20 years ago. If we had a law like this, I am convinced that we would not have cases of court or prosecution that count 50, 80, 90 or 120 thousand pages, which are in practice: cases of crime, white collars, or white collars. Unfortunately, we didn't have it, we didn't have a law like this when privatisations were conducted that qualify as criminal today. Unfortunately, we didn't have a law like this when 800 or 900, over 900 judicial officials could have been found on the street with one pen move. Unfortunately, we didn't have this kind of law at the time when the doctor, or the doctor, who works at the Special Hospital in Sremska Kamenica, just because she points to the crime that exists, when waiting lists are formed, so those waiting lists get in line, so whoever pays for it can perform the surgery, or it can be subjected to surgery in a week or two days, the one who doesn't and who hasn't paid, has to go to the last place that keeps moving, but not in advance, and then we can have the same person who is subject to the experience not only of the medical institution's leadership, but of the leadership and some high school institution that she works in. It is my fault that we couldn't have one judge from Sapac, who was an alarmer and who was only for personal, strictly personal reasons the relationship between the then-leaders of justice to her remained on the street in 2009, so I'm sorry we didn't have at the time when the man who worked in Serbia's roads was mentioned, but we have to develop around one thing every kind of doubt. The state alarmer needs, must and will provide protection in that case when he indicates that he is injured of general interest, when he points to human rights violations, when he points to goods injury, incomprehensibly greater significant values. The State shall not provide the alerter with a system of protection which will protect and wash his personal involving against legal action. That's where in the implementation of this law you have to take care literally at any moment. The alarming status must not be misused. As much as the state depends on whether the alarmer will protect him, it depends so much and will prevent him from having his status, that what this law gives him and abuses himself. Therefore, it is good that the alarmer enjoys judicial protection, because only the court can determine the facts of this nature of interest in such a delicate matter, only the court can determine or determine no one else. I wish, as I said, this law had been passed much earlier. I wish the alarms had been received by the previous ministers of justice. I'd like the state to be alarming, that is, towards the alarmers before had a lot more hearing, a lot more interest in protecting them, but that would mean that the party to whom I have the honor and pleasure to belong would have no reason to come to power. Since that was not the case, we have won the elections, come to power, and here as you can see, we are passing the first law on the protection of alarmers, the first in this part of Europe, for the first time in Serbia, and we are proving that Serbia, when it comes to its legislation, when it comes to its right, however difficult it is and however difficult the economic situation in Serbia is, remains in this part of Europe, the rights of the avant-garde and when it comes to legislation and the development of law. I am proud that such a good law can be proposed to you and I am confident that you will have the hearing to recognize what I was talking about and in the voting day support the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13875	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need to complete the debate and pass this law as soon as possible. There's a word from authorised representatives yet Alexander Jovicic, so we'll take a break after his presentation and move on to the list. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. Can I help you? You don't have a replica. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: How come I don't have one?) ) The minister did not address you directly, address everyone, and if you take care, you will certainly take a break to respond to eight or nine previous discussions. Your Honor, there is really nothing you can achieve by force in this House and by insults to the chairman. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Who insulted you? Don't threaten me, I really don't have that feeling of fear when you're yelling. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Who insulted you that I was dealing with him? I pray for peace in this House and that you do not interfere with my work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13876	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I'm sorry that Mr. Borko Stefanovic is coming out, and here I could have given him a replica, but it doesn't matter. First of all, today we have heard quite a lot of falsehoods by those who have left this hall and it has been a pleasure to listen to the minister of justice explain, as well as how the argumentically suppresses the untruths, the flatulences, the lies of those who have just come out of this room, but what is the essence and why it is important to adopt this law, why Serbia has waited so much on this law and this is a question that can be asked, but I will tell you from practice why this law is important and what we are fighting against. In February, as an unemployed doctor of science, anthropologist Maria Vivod competed in the "Right to the First Chance" of the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development in Novi Sad. In April, she was told that her candidacy for a project to lead a year was accepted. It was then called on to come from 13 other unemployed scientists in the middle of the campaign before the second round of elections for the Vojvodina Assembly and the second round of presidential elections, to come to the ceremony and to sign contracts and solutions and to shake hands with Dr. Bojan Pajtic. "I asked," the "Secretary to receive or sign my contract in a less official atmosphere. I was told that the contract would be sent to me by mail, and later I was told that because of my failure to appear all the rights under this action are lifted." It is Serbia from 2000 to 2012. That's Serbia where you could only get a job if you shake Dr. Bojan Pajtic's hand. It's a shame. For this reason, it is an honor to listen to people who have prepared this law today, a law that has been made in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Europe, a law that has been completely transparent in its process, a law that has worked on this law, which has been numbered by more than 20 members, honest and honest who have worked on this law, everything has been transparent, for all time, there have been representatives of the judicial and prosecutorial authorities, representatives of unions, representatives of employers, even alarmers. It is a transparent Serbia, Serbia that wants a system, Serbia that is finally going to stand in the way of corruption, that monster that destroyed our economy thanks to those who did not want to fight it, but who encouraged it, anointed it, kept it, and that's where we came from. What's important and that's what Mr. Selakovic said, I like that sentence, the law on the protection of alarmers is a law that gives the alliance between states, between citizens, an alliance in the common fight against corruption. Remember that the SNS has promoted since 2011, and in 2012 it came into account with the same way that neither tycoons nor those who have destroyed this country thanks to those who have made it possible to do so, and today we are fighting in the same way, with the same heat, and we will step up the fight thanks to these systemic solutions. Protecting alarmers, first of all, I want to get close to the citizens. The alarmer for me represents a man who is brave, who is honest and who has reported something wrong going on in the state, in the public sector, in all institutions, and in the private sector, a man who has had the courage to say that someone is robbing, stealing, putting his hand in the pocket of citizens of the Republic of Serbia or of some other users, if we are talking about private business, owners, directors and that courage must be appreciated and respected, but that courage wants to protect the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Justice and this whole parliament, because it is the only way to systematically enter this fight, that they are neither individual, nor any fight, but the legal system struggles that will continue after this power when some new generations come. That is our goal. What is important is that this law is a modern, efficient and economic protection process. Everyone has the right to protect against this law. So, this law has allowed protection and employees, and volunteers, and those who have a deal on the part, as well as those who will just start working in a particular company, whether it's private or public. This is the way to fight corruption, corruption that has really destroyed our economy 20 years ago. What is important, Serbia will become a pioneer in alarming. If we look at these laws in the region that have been adopted, e.g. Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted a similar law, but which protects only about 2,500 people working in the federal public sector, but Serbia has gone one step further, Serbia has acted more responsibly, Serbia has passed a law that protects all citizens, all employees, all future generations who must finally get a chance to work in our country, in our public and private sectors, and I think this is a big step and a step towards the progress of our country in this segment, regardless of what some today have called for to attack such a law and the only grudge they actually have here, say -- deadlines. Excuse me, law-making can be three or four months late. We brought it in, and is one party, or representatives of that party, who had just come out of this room, did they even think about a strategy to fight corruption? No, they're not. From 2000 to 2012 they never used that term, and they just had to sit down and write something down, so to present it to the citizens. (The People's MP Gordana Comic throws out of place. If you can just not throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13877	I ask the Vice-President not to throw it away (The People's MP Gordana Komic throws it out of place. ) Please don't use the term to lie to an MP. Please, you're one of the chairmans.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13878	Also, did they hear about the action plan? No, they did not, and they found it appropriate today to attack a law that was praised by both the European Commission and the EU. Obviously, they are going from their actions against the European Commission or the EU, because everything the EU praises, or the Commission, they have not heard of a strategy adopted from 2013 to 2018, a strategy that, with a dozen of these laws, will bring about a improvement of our country in this regard when we talk about fighting corruption. If we remember, the retrospective if we make some promises that Serbia will enter the EU in 2007, then in 2010, then in 2012, so that we will have out of 200,000 unemployed, and we have reached 400,000 unemployed, that we will be the country that has implemented all the reforms, there has been nothing, none of which remembers, but you know, now the problem is two or three months, if this law has not been adopted in time, and you know that this country has had major problems when we talk about floods and other elemental disasters, and the country has again been responsible and seriously faced the same way. So it's an honor to have this law on the agenda. With pride as a young man, I want to raise my hand to this law, because I believe it will bring improvement to our and future generations that will live in this country. If we're talking about application itself, 50% of the cases of malfeasance are revealed by a tip, but 60% of the employees report a certain irregularity, but there are also 40% who should never have done it in order not to get into a situation to cut their wages, get fired or some other kind of retribution to suffer. Today, from here and from this place, we can tell all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all who are employed, those who will only be, and also those who volunteer and teach the job that the state is behind them and that and how they can report corruption, even though their director is corrupt, the head of the shift or anyone in the public or private sector who conducts certain irregularities. They say - there are some irregularities. So let the law show what it is that is wrong. There is no ideal law in the world. Anyone could be better, but time has to show what it is that we can improve that law to be fully applied in the best possible way. Don't charge by the difolt with something you shouldn't touch with a small finger, which is corruption in our country, a government that has entered with all its strength, energy and full heart in dealing with it and now you say – it may not be able to apply in the best way or a late month and two. That's rude. I am particularly proud that the Ministry has also created manuals that will allow this process to be implemented as easily as possible, the law tracking system in which the law is implemented, how much we have managed to implement it. Every alarmer case will be recorded and monitored whether the answer is given in time or not. So there are people who think about how to get feedback so we can apply it in the next period. These are not experts who had just come out of the O.R. because they have never tried to pass a similar, not the law itself, but also the Public Procurement Act, because the only thing they knew was to set up a tender when we talk about public procurement, so that this fight against corruption, alarmers, the Public Procurement Act, is all something that they're nervous about when they're mentioned, because the truth hurts that the fact that our public enterprises, our country, are being destroyed systematically, and we systematically want to recover it, to bring it back to healthy feet and to allow generations that come to live in a decent, modern, honest, and above all honest Serbia. I'm sure we'll make it that way. Thank you again, Minister, for explaining in one responsible way why this law is important to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13879	Thank you. Dear Members, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. So we start in 60 minutes. The first on the list is MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13880	Dear People's MPs, we continue to work and move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13881	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Tomic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPO-DHS has been looking forward to this law coming to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In my discussion, I will look at the proposed legal text from some three corners. The first is -- what is this request of a moment that asked for one of these laws to be passed? Secondly, what does it say, in our opinion, are those basic provisions and the basic good characteristics of this law? The third is - what do we expect to be in the future when we apply this law? I think the older viewers will remember one, unfortunately, legal institution that did not exist in our country in so long ago and many will say – here it is, Chikiriz, again talking about some past time. But in that time, the cause and the foundation and all the bad things that adorned one long and impediment to corruption, is an intolerable situation in our society. There was a legal institution in that period, in Tito's time, during which time many unfounded regrets, as a time of legal certainty, imagine, a time when happily and safely lived, everything was different, there was a legal termology – a useful malfeasance, by which a self-controller, director, manager, etc., could break the law and the Constitution along and across, but the court in the court proceedings will release him because he found that he had made some useful malversion for the company. It's a systematic acceleration of corruption by the state. Nothing went too far after October 5th, unfortunately. I don't think it's appropriate to quote ourselves, but in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, when we passed the first Anti-Corruption Agency Act, in front of our parliamentary group, I said that corruption to this extent has bitten our society that tariffs exist everywhere, in all spheres of our lives, that it's more insufferable and that anyone who tries to change that situation will have the support of the SPO. At that time, we felt that Serbia needed it, and today we think, Elliot Ness, someone who will be at the top of the political pyramid and who will tell those who are fighting corruption and crime -- you are free to do your job, cleanse society of this disease, but all the accompanying social structures that will help Elliot Ness our days to finish this job. If the personification of this first personality is Prime Minister Vukic, then I think everyone should, if there is political will, strongly deal with corruption and crime, make a contribution to us, as the National Assembly, but also to the Ministry of Justice in Resor, as the roof ministry of the control of the work of the courts, as well as the police, the prosecution, and this law and every citizen. So far, there have been cases where citizens have pointed to corruption and crime. What were the consequences? That's what several MPs were talking about. Instead of responding to the one pointed out to be corrupt or engaged in a similar corrupt work, a citizen was most often injured. For what? Because there was no law that would protect a citizen who pointed to a corrupt crime. What is good for us, is that the Ministry also recognized the "Pistal" association and other NGOs, as well as the independent regulatory bodies with which you have contacted, which many of them and experts, and those who were interested, may not be experts in the area, but in any case, they have shown good intentions, analysed the situation, followed the legislation, taken into the working group and what we have today is this text of the law. What is also important in a political sense and we will always point out as a parliamentary group, that America's cradle has the best protection of alarmers, that there is excellent protection of the United Kingdom and that indeed, regardless of how many times the European Commission has insisted, and that we have brought in our Anti-Corruption Strategy, that we will pass one such law, many European countries do not have this law, and it is good that Serbia is ahead of it. What we are all afraid of, given the inherited mentality, is whether tomorrow will possibly be an abuse, but if there is an abuse, it is, first of all, in court to deal with such cases both in the organs and in the organizations that are obliged to bring in our own acts what we are going to bring in our offices today, first of all, with our statutes, I mean business organizations. Is this in the normative part the best thing you can do right now? In our opinion, yes. By listening to all the other respected colleagues and those who opposed this law, I tried to see if we might have overlooked a bad solution, so someone would point to a better solution, which we would have supported anyway, but that didn't happen today. What the future will bring is one encouragement to the citizens. As soon as there is one such institute, as soon as there is one legal protection, then judges who will be specially trained in this matter will be protected citizens who point to corruption both through a temporary measure and through compensation of damages, etc., and will no longer bear any adverse consequences like before. I am alone several times at a time when we did not have this law, when a citizen comes and points to corruption and asks me as a MP – what do you think, believe me, my most sincere answer was – you are going to fight a bad system in which you will not have support. This is a truly revolutionary turn for the better in the fight against corruption and crime. It is another important political message from the pre-election campaign that the SNS is having with its coalition partners, but also another important fact that we have recognized in our joint political programme, which is why we have performed together in the elections. So, Minister, anything that goes this way will have our support. Anything that doesn't go in this direction, we will try, regardless of the small political power, to be an appropriate voice of conscience and to point to better solutions to make tomorrow better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13882	Thank you. The next speaker is MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13883	And again, this is one of the laws that carries the epithet of reform, which will have such a promotion in the media, which, of course, is nowhere near what could and should have been done on this subject. Of course, I agree that there was a time before, that the previous government could have done so, that means the government of Ivica Dacic, and that power before that previous government. There's no doubt about it. What's wrong with all this? It is not good that such a law will find it difficult to encourage anyone to be an alarmer in the right sense of words, because, according to objections from relevant institutions, this law deals only with the part concerning the procedure and will hardly create any new atmosphere in the fight against corruption in Serbia. Of course, it's totally funny that this fight is being fought by the SNS, but that's another topic. At first, the minister called and thanked Sabic, Jankovic, as creditors who contributed to the creation of the law. They fenced on this text publicly and said they were not behind it, that they were part of the task force at the beginning of the creation of this text, but that what was the final product had nothing to do with or had nothing to do with what was their proposal or their proposals. So that's not true. So the minister didn't tell the truth when he said they were behind this law. On the contrary. The law is against the trustees and the Pistalska site, as well as the Anti-Corruption Agency, with which the minister has a personal problem, which is the agency that proposed the replacement of the justice minister, as I recall. The Anti-Corruption Agency is a state body. So, it's no website, it's no tycoon lobby, it's no conspiracy of the East, the West, America, I don't know who, but it's one state body that needs to respect. What's the point of this? The point is that the law could have been much better, that the first law with this topic was a good opportunity to be a great law, which, of course, was missed in many other situations, so we have a situation that it was necessary to intervene with the amendments, and also MP Pavicevic and I wrote 27 amendments. These are the amendments to the "Transparency of Serbia" and there is no doubt that it is not just our work, but rather, it is the work of that NGO. It is very important when you implement a law, when you have a big problem, which is corruption in Serbia, when you want to solve it, when you want to fight it, a strategy is important, and the law is important, but it is a lot of important credibility for people who are supposed to implement that law. What do we have here? We have a bill sent from the Serbian government, which was signed by the minister proposed by the Anti-Corruption Agency, or a proposal to the government by the minister of justice, who was present here, whom I repeat, the Anti-Corruption Agency has proposed for the shift. One part of that law should also be implemented by the MUP, where we have a self-proclaimed doctor who can hardly fight credibility, even if that degree of doctoral or calling is correct, and apparently there is a strong basis for doubting it and, finally, we have a Prime Minister who, in addition to other things, allows himself to bet his office, in the highest place on the political scene of Serbia, to lose a bet and not to endure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13884	Ambassador, you know what's on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13885	There's an alarming law on the agenda, and it's very important who's going to enforce that law, which is why I'm telling you, and the law is implementing the government. That's what we agree on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13886	Yeah, and we're the controller.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13887	Finally, the SNS as a political party has created a site called "snsborking anti-corruption.rs", on which it stands, this is the front page. On this side, citizens of Serbia are called here to if they know anything about some corruption to report it to the SNS. In doing so, the SNS leads people astray, which can lead to them breaking the law. If anyone knows of any crime, it's not the SNS, it's the authorities. Thank you for this cutting.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13888	Thank you. I'm not cutting anyone, just the job. Your colleagues insist on talking about the subject in time, but everyone has the right 10 seconds to break the term. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13889	Thank you, Madam President. I would remind the previous speaker, but also all colleagues who forgot that the Anti-Corruption Strategy existed from 2005 to 2010, that during the former regime since 2010, they were not even interested in bringing the Anti-Corruption Strategy. So much for their views on the fight against corruption, but it didn't bother the previous speaker to be on the same list with these people, to help them cross the censorship, to share those values in the fight against corruption, to accept that we were at the beginning in Europe by all means in the fight against corruption, by sharing that system of values. So on the Anti-Corruption Strategy, I'd rather not talk. I would not agree with another claim made that this law will not stimulate or motivate anyone, nor encourage, to report corruption. I think that the announcement of the adoption of this Code on Alertors encouraged fellow Marijan Rističević, so he spoke publicly and spoke about some machinations, about some combinations, about some vineyards in Frusko Gora. If it hadn't been for that law's announcement, maybe a man shouldn't have done it, but it motivated him and encouraged him. I believe Mr. Risticevic will talk and talk about it in his next address. As for these things that have been brought to the expense of Mr Stefanovic and Mr Selakovic, I believe that they are the product of political hatred and hatred for the results that have been achieved, according to those people who have been respected members of our society, such as Ljubisa Buha Chume, who is now where he should have been long ago, and in times of some regimes, other authorities he was a protected and respected member of our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13890	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13891	We can talk about many other things and what has been achieved at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13892	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13893	Thanks for this extra two minutes. Let's say, around Minister Selakovic, here present, what did I bring out that wasn't true? Is there a Anti-Corruption Agency in Serbia? Is there? There is, of course. Did the Anti-Corruption Agency propose to the government that Minister Selakovic be replaced? Yes, it is. What's wrong with that? Of course, it's all true. It's very nice that you haven't even tried to defend the former Prime Minister, but that's completely understandable. I appreciate your understanding of reality and I think you're going in the right direction. As for the curage that someone will receive from this law, to talk about vineyards, about Fruszko Gora, about the natural beauty of Vojvodina, the AP Vojvodina in Serbia, is very nice, but hardly the law was written with that intensity. They needed the competent authorities, several times already, to check these allegations about this Fruszko Gora, about these vineyards, and that's what happened. Of course, they need to check it one more time and, if it pleases you across the street, one more time, but it has nothing to do with fighting corruption, or fighting crime. It's the infatuation of another few tens of thousands of people who believe in what they voted for six or seven months ago. But generally this law is bad. As you know, Mr Pavicevic and I have voted several times for good bill proposals, without any doubt. It's not our behavior that we have to be against at all costs. On the contrary, a chance has been missed here, and the credibility of the people who need to enforce the laws I will no longer talk about, Serbia already knows.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13894	Thank you. Replica, Zoran Babic, and the replica of Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13895	Thank you to the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my great friends and distinguished Professor Marko Atlagic said earlier when I spoke to a national MP – half the truth is far more dangerous than the truth. That's how some things are said here that are educational to a man or a lawyer of complete untrueness, and someone who is not half-truth. Only one thing has been said true, so it is true that there is an Anti-Corruption Agency, but it is not true that the same agency has submitted a proposal to the government to replace the minister of justice. First, the same agency for anyone who can read the law cannot submit a proposal for anyone's shift, it can recommend it. Secondly, she gives that recommendation to whoever the minister chooses, and that's not the government. Thirdly, when it comes to some of the other false things that have been told, who is interested can take either my speech in the written version or transcript, to see that in one single word I have not said that behind this bill there is a Commissioner for the Protection of Data on the Personality of Information against Public Meaning, or the Protector of Citizens, not a single word. So, the third one in a row is false if I'm not mistaken, and the fourth thing I really have to say is, a fellow respected Babic mentioned, but not until the end, it's a shame that this law didn't exist when it privatized "Beopetrol", or when the Duvanska Industry Nis was privatized, or when there was an incentive or subsidy for some agricultural activities, big damage, because if there were such laws back then, many things wouldn't look as they look now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13896	Replica, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13897	I see that someone in this room would want to put a sign of equality between him and Mr. Wolf's Dwarf and Goliath. Can't put a sign of equality, I know that someone would invent and lie and do, just to put a sign of equality, but that sign of equality that will never stop, because and those signs between people, between the parties, give citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have put in elections legitimately, not by burning this building, not by keeping 6% in Vojvodina by buying, not by such things as are both illegal and illegal, but by putting 50% in elections on the goliat, to the one they believe, who they want to run the government and this state and someone who's not on the political map, but would want to place such a sign of equality. Well, there's no sign of equality. We only have one former, former minister, former prime minister, former MP. I thank you, Madam President, for keeping the Office open non-stop, because it is so eager to see the resignation of one of the people's MPs who lost, I can't say the bet, but a gentlemanly hand given that if something is true to resign, and if something is false, that he resigns, that's not true, but there's no honesty. I don't want to talk about academics because from the academy maybe some pass by the academy, but nothing else. I'm grateful to you for keeping the Office open, it's necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13898	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Zivkovic since you recognized each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13899	Of course I have recognized myself and of course it is clear to all in Serbia that those who hear well and those who can think well about what they hear, that the last thing in the world or the last thing in the world that would come to mind is to compare myself with Alexander Vukic. This position of nudits in mythology is very interesting. I agree with you, I can agree in part with that definition. Thank you if you put me in David's position, it's also a good position. What's the point of this story? The point of this story is that someone who graduates from law school in Serbia, which is one honorable thing, but such people in Serbia have several tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands. That's why it doesn't give anyone the right to do anything or accuse him of anything. Someone who is unable to pass a judicial exam, a state exam, who is not capable of doing anything but being a minister of justice, can't salt anyone's mind. On the other hand, if the minister of justice knows something that is illegal, and it concerns the privatisation of “Lukoila”, the tobacco industry Nis, the tobacco industry Vranje, a subsidy for some vineyard in Frusko Gora, let him tell the authorities. He shouldn't be afraid, as if this law would be passed to encourage him. Such amateurs whose first job was to play big, scientific, professional, patriotic and state-sized, I and this people have watched each other for the last twenty and a few years as long as you want. We know where they're going and how their show ends.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13900	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. This is no longer a replica, a debate is spreading and goes in who knows which direction. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13901	Since I haven't mentioned a name, but the function I'm on is mentioned, I'm calling on whoever mentioned my function to sit down and compare our diplomas. So let's sit down and compare our diplomas, sit down and compare the institutions where we've acquired them, sit down and compare the grades we've received, sit down and compare the time when I'm the minister of justice and state administration and the time when someone was some unfortunate, terrible case of the government's circumstances, to remember the darkest age after the murder of the Prime Minister, and then the darker time of someone's government's presidency after the murder of the Prime Minister, to remember the reports of some prominent international human rights organizations in that period when someone was president of that government. Let's just think about all this and see how long it took for us to be in custody, or to be in police custody, to see how much money was spent on the baseless deprivement of freedom, not to talk about freedom of speech, not to talk about censorship of the media, but to get back to it. So I'm just calling, and I'm gonna have no problem and my degree in elementary school and my degree in grad school from the oldest law school in the country to get out, and he's gonna bring his own. I have absolutely no problem with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13902	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13903	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I'm advocating Article 107 of the Rules of Procedure has been done here several times because of incredible insults, but first to voters. Someone here said voters are going crazy, and they're choosing this parliament, and that's something that's scandalous to insult the people who chose these MPs here. Now, before someone does that, someone who's dead, cold, laughing at us all in the face here says, "Yes, I covered up the paperwork of my vineyard scam, and you can't hurt me, and now you're so naive, and I'm going to insult you all here." Now, that's something that's scandalous and it's something that's contrary to all the moral principles and you were obliged to warn him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13904	Dear Messenger, some of the words that were spoken are a warning in themselves, and I felt it was too much for me to react further. If you think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, please, we'll vote. Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If he had called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'd have to give my word, although I hate to do it, as you know, because it's always causing something else. You're right. I can't give Zoran Zivkovic an injury to the Rules of Procedure, so I need you to do something... (National MP Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I am not asking for it, but for what the minister said. I don't know what that means. The minister has only responded to your replica and replica. I really think this is a mobing if I have to do the same... (National MP Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: It happens all the time. I don't understand, MP. We can talk some other time, but throwing, I'm not a frequent guest of the place where he throws himself, really. Thank you very much. I'm using my authority to close the circle of replicas. These lines are very interesting, but it's even more interesting and the law we're discussing. We'll get on the list. I'm sure there'll be more replication. I don't doubt it. The word is Marijan Rističević. Let's respect a long-awaiting MP. Here you go. I called an MP. It's not cultural to interrupt an MP when he gets his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13905	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, do not try to get a college degree from my fellow farmer. Nish citizens have been looking for her for 10 years. The whole Nis dug up, but they didn't find her. Since it's about my fellow farmer trying, I'm obliged to protect his vineyard work and his winemaker's Kalemarian character. Mr. Minister, I will support the choice of prosecutors, of course I will also support in the High Council of the Judiciary the choice of judges, of course I also support the law with BiH on extradition, of course I will also support the Alert Law. On this occasion, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to be an alarmer again. Let's start by talking first about the alarming law model, who made it. In your introduction, Mr. Minister, you said the model was made by the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for Public Information and that they formed a working group. I ask you, is it true that this task force was paid by the British and the Dutch? Since it's about people, and I'm not going to say that they're foreign mercenaries, I'm going to say that they're domestic subscribers because they have a salary of 350,000 dinars and because they're working on this model of the alarming law, Mr. Minister, I'm talking to you, for 18 months they've been charging a salary of 350,000 dinars every month for the next year and a half of 600 euros, which is 800 euros, from above, on that salary and most likely that the alarming law model was made at work when they paid 3,500 euros from the state. I'm asking you this as an alarmer. So, I ask to be answered – are the very well-known Citizens' Protector and the Trustee for the availability of information of public importance, as well as the various other independent regulatory bodies and bodies, for which when those from the opposition, from this small party once ruling, I often think it's about their party comrades. They died for them. People say they made a good model. Mr. Minister, was it true that the model said that the employer who committed the offence, that means the one who was exposed to the bribe, violated the regulations, etc., was supposed to be warned by the Civil Protection Officer, and if he didn't follow the recommendation only then gets a criminal report? If he respects the recommendation and says – I will no longer receive bribes, an honorable word, then criminal charges are lagging behind. You owe us answers to these questions since the two persons mentioned are very commended here and I have no reason to praise them, nor to embarrass them, I present the facts as one of the alarmers. Did the persons mentioned while receiving such large salaries of 350,000 dinars receive an additional year and a half per day of £600, i.e. for a year and a half of £10.800, which was equivalent to around 14,000 euros. On such a high salary it is rude, it is in a certain way a conflict of interest and the Protector of citizens has actually only protected their high wages in these independent regulatory bodies. That's what I'm asking you as an alarming officer who's going to support this alarming law that's going to give thousands more people a chance to do it. Also, Mr. Minister, I have to ask you - what about the illegal election, and I don't appreciate it, it appreciates the Constitutional Court by its 2004 decisions, I think, "The Official Messenger" No. 52 and 44/2004. year, where Mr. Bruno Vekaric's choice is first, not the choice but the appointment by the government, and now he will be protected by those from the opposition, because he will think that their party friend, was appointed together with the future justice minister to the deputy prosecutor directly from the government, that he never passed the election in the National Assembly, and that he was therefore resolutely and unlawfully elected to the most sensitive place in the war crimes prosecutor's office. You, Mr. Justice Minister, owe us an answer to this question team before me and some other colleagues in this house asked us direct and indirect questions, and fellow Drecun knows that, and Mr. Minister, it's not normal for us to be reported to the American Embassy. Here from Wikilis, Nishvilis, the "smurcos debundos" site, I also have proof of that. So these are the documents and I'm saying this as an alarm...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13906	MP, can you just have a little microphone 'cause they're reacting to their colleagues? Just in the microphone closer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13907	The opposition says I'm too loud, but let's see. I have here a document that I received from the Nishvilis site and the "domensvercodbundos" of the US Embassy in Belgrade, his Excellency Michael Kirby, where the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is 14. Six. In 2013, he regrets the MPs and individual committees. Is it normal for the prosecutor who was illegally elected, which is the opinion of the 2004 Constitutional Court, to communicate with the US Embassy. I'm not saying he's a foreign mercenary either, but he's a domestic subscriber. Despite his election against the constitution and the constitutional court's assessment of the first election, namely the appointment by the government of RS, and according to the law that was at the time of "Sablje", he received some 60 personal incomes that were more than 260,000 dinars. He received, therefore, against the law at the place where 15 million dinars were illegal. I'm not one to protect his character and act. I, Mr. Minister, will give you this letter of 14. Six. In 2013, his Excellency Michael Kirby of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. I will also hand over the minutes from the war crimes prosecutor's meeting with Kendall Deja, a legal adviser at the U.S. Embassy, where they inform them of all activities related to the activities of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, and thereby challenge MPs the right to share those findings on the assembly boards. As an MP, as a representative of a sovereign state, I cannot believe that such prosecutors exist, that such deputies exist, that there is such an anti-constitutional and illegal way that has been held for ten years. In that sense, as Minister of Justice, I ask you to make sure that the deputy war crimes prosecutor Bruno Vekaric, Mr Bruno Vekaric, is brought to justice. So, once elected in a legal manner and previously punished with all the personal incomes he has received unlawfully. I'll hand over both memos to the U.S. Embassy. It's unacceptable for me to do this. This was not what our peasants would say, when the raven blackened and the stern tail turned. This is impossible, not in any country, not in a banana state. So, it's a very interesting composition of this war crimes prosecutor's office. You will find here and the spouses of certain MPs, not to mention their names, I will deliver it to you. Also, as an alarmer, Mr. Justice Minister, I have provided you with some photographs and you owe me answers – are these photographs authentic? I'll put in another one. Is this photograph, Mr. Minister, that I am about to hand over to you as an authentic alarmer, where the Minister of Interior of the Government of my esteemed fellow farmer in an attempt, which we have paid dearly, is this from the JSO base and is it receiving a gift in the form of a gun or saber from the Special Operations Unit that was later convicted and whose members are convicted of the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic? So, aside from those photos, I'll give you this one. Mr. Minister, I'm going to say about academic honesty, which is often mentioned here, especially from my colleague who didn't have any friends in college, but he proposed a law on higher education, which for me was almost amazing, was supposed to propose a law on wine, which I would understand, but, when it comes to academic honesty, as an alarmer, I'm asking you if it's true that the vice president of the party, whose list he was elected to, studied from 1993 to 2005, was 12 years old? Malten's pension hasn't been met. In doing so, he was the Secretary for Agriculture. Why am I saying I need alarm status here? For the following reason: mentioning a gentleman who has an apartment in Vienna, at the salary of a thousand euros, here is another reason why I am an alarmer, the gentleman has a salary of 1,000 euros and a 160-square apartment in Vienna and costs 500-600 000 euros. In his municipality, those vineyards came through. Let's see, a man studied for 12 years, almost retired there, had he not gone into political office, he might have been studying since 2005. He enrolled in 1993 and passed his first exam in 1995. When he became power, he also gave three exams in four days. Since it's about the man who launched our aflatoxin affair, as an alarmer, I ask you, Mr. Minister, who's going to check if it's true that on one test, of course when he became power, he got a clean ten? The problem with that exam, Mr. Minister, is next. To check it out. You don't have to dig to look for that degree, like the citizens of Nis, they haven't found. This is easy to dig up at the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad. For the sake of academic honesty and ethical responsibility, did the teacher of the student concerned evaluate it with a score of 10, but that the application and assessment were written with the same hand? Or did the student evaluate himself, here are the professors, or did the professors, that the child was not tortured, who had previously been hated by teachers, to travel from India to Novi Sad, fill out their own application and grade just so that the child would not suffer? Is it true, Mr. Minister, I ask as an alarming officer, that the lady in question was later a counselor to that student who became the circuit secretary for agriculture? And I'm also asking you, did this counselor take part in the aflatoxin affair that has caused untold damage to our cattlemen and today, instead of 500,000 cows, what was it a year and a half ago, we have only 350,000, because the above-mentioned affair has devastated the price of milk? Milklers didn't buy it, and people sold cows to Albanians, cows went to slaughter, they're gone, and it's a huge economic loss, Mr. Minister, for our agriculture. As chairman of the Agriculture Committee, I have to ask you that. So, I expect, if you can't answer these questions in the future. I repeat, I downloaded it all from the site "Serblix, Nisilix, Domain Smurcos Bundos". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13908	Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13909	Thank you. I believe the previous exposure has injured Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, which states in paragraph 2, that it is not permitted to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. We have listened here to a discussion absolutely inappropriate to this House, which you have at no time tried to interrupt, with the thunderous approval of the largest party in parliament. I think it's the best picture of the society we live in today and that everything that's going on outside this building, what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been experiencing in recent days, violence and all things are being looked at in this House. Through this discussion and through this way of holding a session, unfortunately, Serbia is not going the European way, it is not going in the direction of creating a normal country. Please again, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and all that the Rules of Procedure give you and the obligation of Rule 27 to take care of the conduct of this Rules of Procedure, sanction such discussions, regardless of what MPs in your MP group absolutely approve of this manner of speech. I think you as Parliament's president have an obligation to rise above it and not to let this happen over and over again from session to session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13910	Ambassador, I really don't understand how you would run this assembly. I'm going to hand out Band-Aids to the MPs in my mouth and not allow them to make examples, one to give examples, and the other not to give examples? Don't yell, please. I would understand the breach of the Rules of Procedure if you had responded even when one of the members of the minority set examples. That was very appropriate for you, and when you say the other one, then it was inappropriate for you. Secondly, I don't see what's out of private life here. We're all public figures and people he talked about, at least those I could identify through his allegories, are all public officials in this country. I'm really not going to stop anyone here, or the MPs on my right, or the MPs on the left, to bring out something they know, especially if the MP in every sentence says he speaks as an alarmer. I find myself in a situation where I'm someone who's gonna harass MPs and forbid them to bring up what they know. If the minister can answer all these questions, he will answer. If not, if they are too complex, he will try to answer the MP in another way, within this law. I have done nothing to endanger this House's dignity. I think Parliament's dignity would be compromised if she shared the Band-Aids with the MPs to keep quiet. If you think he's hurt by the Rules of Procedure, we'll vote. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe I was wrong, but then I should do it to everyone. I absolutely disagree, there is one tendency here, and I apologize that my answer is a little wider, that MPs of the ruling majority must remain silent, and the opposition only to speak. It's now become a tendency for months, to keep getting up and saying someone's at risk. No one is at risk in this House, as far as freedom of speech is concerned. That's it. We'll vote. It's not a problem. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13911	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, representatives of the Justice Department, the High Council of the judiciary, respected colleagues, I would like to express my satisfaction that today we are discussing a draft law on the protection of alarming officers. In addition, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that we are only discussing this bill today and why the Institute of Public Listening is not being used in this respected home. Of course, this is not directed towards the Ministry of Justice or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who is the legislator of this law, but at the presidents of the committee that treat certain matter, but the initiative was certainly meant to come from the Ministry of Justice, and I am expressing hope that future laws that are very important and that should move certain segments of our society to the better, to be presented before Parliament's plenary session through public listening. This is undoubtedly a law that is part of a legal normative framework to fight corruption. It is necessary that this need arises from our judicial or normative practice and from the obligations we have made as a country within the framework of membership in international organisations. So Article 33. The UN Convention on the Combating Corruption, which we are a member of, and that each Contracting State will consider the possibility, in its domestic legal system, to provide for appropriate safeguards against any unwarranted proceedings against any person who reports good intentions to the competent authorities or on a reasonable basis, any facts relating to corruption offences provided for in this Convention. The legislation has gone a step further internationally, so in the Civil-Legal Convention against Corruption of the Council of Europe in Article 9 it is prescribed that each party Contracting Party should provide in domestic law adequate protection against any unjustified sanctions against employees who have a basic reason to doubt corruption and who would report their suspicions to responsible persons or bodies to a good degree. Monitoring the implementation of this Convention has been entrusted to the Council of Europe, the Council of Europe Committee called GRECO or those Group of countries to combat corruption. It was in recommendation number 21 in the first and second rounds of evaluation that was made in 2005 and 2006 in order to comply with our country's rules on the improvement of the anti-corruption system that Serbia needs to ensure that public officials who report their suspicions of corruption in a public administration that does so in good faith are adequately protected from retribution when they do so. The European Commission also noted this obligation in its reports. This obligation is also foreseen by our internal legislation. The National Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period 2003 to 2018, as well as the accompanying action plan, has been mentioned here several times, one of the objectives foreseen to achieve, establish effective and effective protection of alarmers, i.e. persons who report suspected corruption. So far, to this day, there were no comprehensive protection of alarmers in our legal system, but there were certain provisions in various laws that treated this area. Thus, the Civil Service Act lays down the duty of notifying the suspected existence of corruption as a result of which the civil servant is obliged to notify the directly assumed and the manager in writing if corruption has been made by officials or civil servants in the body in which he works in connection with his work. It is also prescribed that a civil servant enjoys protection in accordance with the law when he reported corruption. This regulation is missing for several reasons. First, because it does not offer the protection of a civil servant if it has knowledge of corruption outside his work circle. Then, the question arises if a certain corrupt phenomenon arises on the basis of which law a civil servant or a substitute enjoys protection, since the Law on civil servants does not discuss the procedure. The second law dealing with this area is the Law on Access to Information of Public Matter. The legal provision shall protect a person who discloses information or discloses a particular document that is not confidential in nature. The third law to protect people who discover corruption is the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Namely, Article 56. The law states that a person cannot bear the consequences of corruption. It is about persons who address the Agency and refer to public officials covered by a corrupt act who have not reported or who have not reported the property they possess or who are in conflict of interest. On the basis of these provisions, the Anti-Corruption Agency has adopted a Regulation on the protection of persons reporting corruption. Of course, this is about persons within the state or public sector whose status the Agency has certain competences. Its basic deficit is that it cannot be applied to the private sector. Also, a question has been raised about how to protect these persons by the Anti-Corruption Agency since the law obliges the Agency to protect the anonymity of the applicant. In addition, for all of these reasons, the Constitutional Court, on 23 October 2014, put out of force i.e. assessed against the constitutional this act. On the need to pass such a law, the Law on the Protection of Alertors also testifies to cases where certain persons have discovered corrupt phenomena within the service and have experienced mistreatment and even loss of work. Goran Milosevic, who is to be mentioned on this occasion, uncovered an organised criminal group that damaged the state by 6.5m euros and lost his job. World experience, international experience shows that a large number of world corruption acts has been discovered to help alarmers. One of the best systems for protecting people who report corruption is under US legislation. The protection of these faces rests on three grounds. First, on a firm legal guarantee to people who report corruption, which concerns protection against criminal consequences, i.e. the consequences of labour protection. Then, he imposes criminal sanctions on ten - year - olds who threaten or try to injure alarmers in some way. Then, they guarantee a financial reward to the alarming officer whose application led to a conviction. I know there's been a lot of public debate about the rewards to be given to the alarmer and that there are different systems. I'm more interested in not giving the prize, and in the end, I think that's what the experts of the European Commission who evaluated this law said. The draft law we are discussing today defines the arrangement of alerts, alarm procedures, alarming rights, the obligations of statesmen and other bodies and organisations, as well as legal and natural persons in relation to alerts, as well as other issues related to alarming and alarming as provided for in Article 1. It's a bill of law. We have some objections that we have already made in the principle debate, and I'm going to try to indicate here what has not been said so far. Although the draft law was brought to the attention of the European Commission on two occasions, if I am not mistaken, and a public debate was opened by the government, which I commend, the impression is that attitudes and organisations are dealing with the fight against corruption and its prevention is not sufficiently respected. This time I am not criticising or alluding to the fact that their objections were to be accepted or suggestions and suggestions, however, today we have not heard an adequate answer, which is why certain proposals and suggestions have not been accepted. Through a letter to Transparency of Serbia, MPs were informed that a report and a public debate that should contain reasons for not accepting certain amendments were requested through a request for free access to information of public importance. We haven't been informed if it's been delivered. Also, I do not believe that it is clear how the draft law was treated by the task force formed by the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matters has been treated. I do not believe that the government's policy is consistent with the fight against corruption and the declared objectives in the fight against corruption, since the government's policy has largely been based on a report by the Anti-Corruption Council concerning abuses in the privatisation process. Our second objection concerns the concept of certain provisions of the law. The amendments proposed by the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group refer to the improvement of the bill. What we couldn't act legally is about the alarming procedure, which we also object to. In fact, we believe that the litigation process is not adequate and that it can be turned into a case against the person who reported corruption. Then, compared to Article 15. A bill that regulates the internal alarm procedure. Paragraph 2 states that the employer is obliged to act on information without delay and no later than 15 days from the date of receipt of the information. You can't see how an employer will act here. It was left behind, i.e. It is provided for in Article 17 to adopt a sublegal act by a minister, and we assume that this procedure will be provided for by means of a sublegal act. Also, in Article 18. The proposal for a law in paragraph 1 states that the procedure for external alerting shall begin with the provision of information to the authorised authority. So the question is, who is this authorized organ? It is then regulated in Article 21 to prohibit the placing of alarmers in a more unfavourable position, and Article 1 states that the employer must not act by or without making the alarmer more unfavourable in connection with the alert, especially if the less favourable situation relates to the employment and acquisition of the capacity of trainees or volunteers, etc. So, we think that citing these procedures isn't good, because there will always be some new situations that can't or weren't foreseen by law. These are the objections that we have made and through the amendments that we have submitted to this bill, and after all, we point out that we will welcome the adoption of such regulations, that this is necessary and that this represents an improvement of the fight against corruption, with the conclusion that it is not enough exclusively normative activity. One of the most important indicators of a decisive fight against corruption, an effective judicial system and the confiscation of assets stemming from a corrupt act. As for the Law confirming the extradition contract with Bosnia and Herzegovina, I welcome the signing of this contract and its confirmation through this law, especially since the contract provides for the extradition of its own citizens to criminal acts of organised crime, corruption and money laundering. We believe that this is inevitable and that it should go in this direction that states must cooperate, if they want to resolutely oppose organised crime, corruption and money laundering, and that this is another way to fight organised crime. On this occasion, I would like to remind you of an initiative that was presented to the public in previous years regarding a regional extradition order, about the arrest. I don't know what you think about it, but I believe that by concluding a certain agreement between countries in the region on an easier way to extradite a person can also contribute to the fight against organised crime to a large extent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13912	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milena Bijanin. Sign up, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13913	Thank you. Here, for me personally and for the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, this is a subject of crucial importance, because simply, in our social democratic definition of the state in which we live, we see as a state which is, above all, just and exclusively based on justice and justice, based on all its citizens who have the same chance of working, living and achieving personal happiness. In that sense, I welcome the decision to make, in general, that this bill should come before us to parliament and that we should meet with the provisions of this law the public who is highly interested. Why is she so interested? Because we are all witnesses of the great tribulation that is corruption, as a monster that degrades every society, and even in history shows many cases of many empires that have fallen apart, a monster that degrades everything, which not only degrades what is called an economy, but degrades what is most valuable to one nation, which is its moral capacity and its moral values. For that reason, I think this law is extremely important. On the one hand, it should provide one real effective legal protection for our fellow citizens or citizens of Serbia who point to some forms of corrupt behaviour, but it seems to me that in all these other indications that the alarmer can inform someone, that there is one list of problems we have been living with for many years and that we certainly need to solve, so in that sense I understand the support of the Council of Europe to the agenda with our problems, extend beyond the subject itself and only the subject of corruption. So we're talking about the alarmer being able to report some illegal behavior, breach of regulations, violation of human rights, violation of public authority against the purpose that is entrusted, the danger of life, public health, for safety and the environment, as well as data to prevent damage to large scales. These are all extremely big questions that concern everyone and that, when they happen, cause great trouble to all of us. The state has decided to pass these laws, not just because it has committed itself to numerous international conventions and contracts, and it simply says that we have a relationship with the world and some new institutional systems and better solutions. What is most important to me somewhere, to mention at this point, is the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to put the fight against corruption at the level of the most important state issue and that we are all building a country in which there will be absolutely, or we will be, hopefully, one day in a state of zero tolerance to corruption. Corruption, as I said, is eating up every society, and every democratic society has an obligation to recognize, prevent and, as far as possible, combat and fight it. I see this law in that sense, at this point, and probably that in the time to come, there will be many more opportunities to see whether and which solutions are absolutely good and what time we may change, but the law absolutely has its own importance. I say again, at this point, because justice is simply not possible in any absolute amount, so it may not be an absolute protection, but it is important to do and everything that is going to happen in the procedures that we are going to learn about, where we are going to change practice and where we are going to perfect this society. As far as citizens are concerned, I must tell you that my motivation for me to participate in the work of the National Assembly today is, personally, in solidarity with all citizens of Serbia who are in different ways victims of corruption and of various other illegal acts and who, it seems to me, are largely and willing to participate more significantly in the detection of such bad behaviours, because they simply did not have the support of the state. I don't think this law should answer the question of what is the desirable behavior of citizens of the state, whether it's honesty, responsibility, work, commitment, we've all mastered it somewhere, we can express it, we know that we understand the meaning of that concept. I think it's much more important for citizens through this law to understand that they have support and that it's much easier to achieve this attitude in life and behavior if the state stands before you. That's why I value this law as very important. Of course, the great and numerous problems in the past that we are talking about have stood as some obstacle to the adoption of this law, i.e. the correcting of some forms of behavior that are still, I say, almost becoming traditional, so some of some of the forms of behavior have entered even a folk saying, so where someone has managed well we tell him – but you have faith. We don't say anything else, but it's as simple as envying him and thinking very well of what you've done, so maybe you can distract me too, if I get a chance and if I'm brave enough. What I also think is not good, it is that in our education system there are not enough instruments that will help our students develop one critical opinion that they have full freedom of participation and participation in the education process and simply the possibility that openly and clearly without worrying about any sanctions point to what their torments are. If we don't teach the students, and we have to say this lesson, just so long as we can master and learn, and I don't think I was wrong if I mentioned the need to deal with some more questions in the context of the education system in order to simply form young people, or citizens who will one day be much more active, much more courageous, and much faster understand the processes that are happening in their society, which these bad processes will be able to quickly recognize and, of course, be prepared for proposals and activities that will solve all these problems. Everything we're talking about today is not an elemental disaster, we've all been doing this for many years, we haven't found the strength to fight it, brave enough and determined enough. That's why I think this is a good time for this country today. What I'd also like to say is that if we want to simply help our fellow citizens get to know better the provisions of this law, that it probably takes some kind of education. Research done by the Anti-Corruption Agency in 2012, and those done before, say that a large number, a large percentage of our residents know of some form of corrupt behaviour, or violations of the law, and that a small number dares to report it, or that even fewer know there are alarmers. I think that as a society, we are responsible for helping citizens in some kind of education and, of course, on the basis of the good practice that will follow, following the application of this law, we encourage them to make a full contribution to the construction of a just, one right and one democratic society. As for the law itself and the members of the law, since I'm not a lawyer, I'm going to, say, an ordinary citizen who reads this law, and who thinks that maybe somewhere he can find a topic for his engagement in correcting an irregularity, say what is significant in my understanding and what I want to comment on. I think it's a good provision in which it's completely unequivocally said that it's forbidden to prevent alarms, that it's forbidden to take a harmful action against the one doing the alarm. I know that "Transparency of Serbia" had the objection that the provision of the law concerning the ban on the use of alarms was not immediately, to say in this order in which I put it, but also I think it is important, and I have chosen to say it in this place, because I think that we are all a little afraid of the possible abuses of those people who do not have honorable intentions, and who again to some other people who may be correct in the business they are dealing with, can bring great harm. In that sense, I think anonymous reports, I was simply working in a system where someone could report you anonymously, it's a constant and latent threat. That is correct for those who do some work to keep that in mind, and that, of course, they try to do absolutely correct every day, correctly, but believe that if there is not enough to look through, they can cause a lot of trouble to people who are burdened with such accusations, because you will have to spend a lot of time while you prove or prove one or the other and a lot more. It's a good thing there are alarm levels, which you can choose whether to tell your employer, the authority or the public first. Here only in the public, since public information means can be used, the Internet can be used, etc. Of course, in cases where someone reaches out for the use of these means or forms of public information, it is probably some very important issues that can cause major material or human damage. I think it's good to use these funds, but, well, just so I know about a case like that, I don't know who would, I don't know, simply the procedures by which some newspaper editor or some media would believe me and publish it without doing any more damage and not making a mistake in the sense that I may have misjudged and that the reaction that followed was greater than the one that should follow. What I also think is good, it is of course that the protection of the court is brought by emergency procedure. I welcome the ministers to announce that the manuals have already been prepared, that there is already a planned training programme, because what is extremely important, and we will get the result of this law quickly in what sense? The first to enter the process after this law, get alarm status and pass by to say, easily, unscathed and legally protected from the state in proving what they want to testify...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13914	Time, Mrs. Bianca.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13915	I'm done. If that first one has great pleasure and is not unhappy, we'll say we've done the job. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will, of course, vote in favour of this law, and I simply appeal to all of us who are performers of any kind of public function to show first of all a personal example.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13916	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aida Ćorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13917	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, respected ministers and members, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, is today before us a law that without little ten years is causing controversy. I will remind all of us, since 2006 at the address of the European Commission, we have started to talk about this law, that in 2010 we would make an explicit address to make such a law, and that same year a proposal was made by the working commission established by Mr Rodoljub Sabic, a trustee for information of public importance, and today here is the practical end of 2014 and we are still talking about this law. It is interesting that this law causes so much controversy not only in this high house, but obviously in our society. There's a lot of debate about this law. On the other hand, another ambivalence of this law is that among a large number of citizens there is simply no awareness of who these alarmers are, who these whistlers and very few citizens actually know about it. My view is that this is one of the most important laws that we have been discussing since the beginning of our parliamentary term since May of this year. With several laws that my colleague Malovic has also listed with the law on lobbying, which I hope will soon be in the process, a practically legislative framework for the fight against corruption that our country must have. As I understand it, the essence of this law is that it creates free society. If the public is not informed, then democracy cannot develop in such a society. With me, however, this law, or bill of law, challenges certain, as I would say, confusion or ambivalence. Anyway, I've consulted a large number of my colleagues in the NGO sector, a large number of friends who are alarmers and I wanted to hear their attitude and their opinion, because their opinion was most valuable to me in this story. They stand at the point that it is very important for this law to be passed, but not to perhaps be stubborn and somehow implement the opinion that it is the law, to get the impression that the draft of this law cannot essentially contain corruption, but that it actually serves to suppress information that corruption exists, and I will remind all of us that six times the number of alarms has been increased in 2013-2014. Also, there is the impression that the bill is written for a country where everything works well, especially in the judiciary, and that somehow everything is transferred to the field of justice, which is somehow not good. You can especially see it somewhere in the local environment. It is the impression that the state is somehow easy to come out with high-level corruption, with tycoon corruption, that the government is entering direct conflicts, but that it is therefore somehow lagging behind what is the local level, what is less visible, where corruption is essentially booming and where, to say the least, trades not only money, but also trades influences. I'm afraid that the local level often is, that the judiciary is at a local level, and it's the ones that are the object of showing the gaps and the problems that whistles indicate, that are very often in the range, and we don't actually get anything. It is therefore very important to discuss, that the amendments that our colleagues from Transparency have delivered to all parliamentary groups, in some ways pay attention to them and without vanity, in the best interest of reaching a good law. It is my view that, in addition to this legislative part, we must talk about this law on the one hand, and that is, I would say, the ethical side, the human side. Today we are talking about some living people who have names and names, who have faces and who are a reflection of the courage and responsibility of civil Serbia. If we do not give these people the opportunity to work further, I fear that we will destroy every root of Serbia's serious democratic development. Very often these people were out of work and their families were often left without existence. I ask you to give me a chance to read a few names, it's very important for me to read a few names of people who have been exposed to a huge torture in their midst. I think it's fair and correct to hear the names of some of the alarmers, because I think we'll behave differently if we know and hear who these people are. First of all, there are: Valentina Krstic, Momcilo Cvetkovic, Bojana Borkov, Biljana Mraović, Slobodan Marinković, Goran Milosevic, Borko Josipovic, Živorad Brankovic, Vladimir Radomirović, who has been running the website "Pistaljka", Transparency of Serbia, the Low Centre for Human Rights, the Bureau for Social Research. I know that some people participated, that they were in the task force, that they worked together with you and I were very important to hear their attitude, and that's why it's very, very important for me to underline that these people were not concerned with their personal, say, tragedy, if I may say so, resolve, that their personal conflict is not in the first place, but that this case, which they pointed out, be experienced by an epilogue in court and that the cancer of the wounds in that environment is resolved in court and resolved as the law allows. So I ask you once again, and fellow Members of the Parliament's majority, that indeed in the best interest of all these people whose names I have read, but also of all those people who will dare to be alarmers and who will point fingers and will not endure, will not regret their lives, I can say so. They're the reason we have to pass the best law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13918	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vanja Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13919	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in the framework of this joint single search, I will refer to two points of this agenda, first of all to the proposal for a law on the protection of alarming officers and a bill on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on extradition. The alert law protects the public interest that is in line with the policy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I must point out that the protection of public interest in the broadest sense of the word is ensured through the apparition of human rights violations, security, public health, the environment, or the apparition of any other dangerous, irresponsible and illegal behaviour that can cause damage to large scales. Therefore, the need to adopt such an important anti-corruption and European law is clear. Serbia is the first country in the region to pass such a law. As far as EU countries are concerned, only three EU countries have passed such a law so far. Therefore, Serbia is not only ahead of the region, but also among the EU countries that will pass such laws only after Serbia. This law is, among other things, significant because it systematises, i.e. codifies the provisions on the protection of alarmers that already exist in other laws -The Law on civil servants, adopted in 2007, then the Law on Access to Information of Public Matter, adopted in 2004, then the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, adopted in 2008, as well as the Regulation on the Protection of People who Report Corruption. Since all these regulations have been passed at the time of some previous government, and now these regulations are finally systematised in one law and complement new provisions, I believe that opposition MPs should also vote for this law unless they are dealing with daily politics and politics or something else, which is a fear of alarming. This is when I call on anyone who has any information to present this information, and this law will protect them. The Code on the Protection of Alarmers is also passed because of the experience the state has had in the area of alarming, and this experience is valuable primarily because of all the shortcomings observed by the application of so far-called regulations, so this law also complements the legal gaps that existed in many laws. The fact is that this protection was limited in scope and this was pointed out by numerous examples of corruption reporting, as well as the Agency's 2013 Anti-Corruption Report, which clearly shows that there is no comprehensive alarm protection. It was therefore necessary to draw up a special law that would round up the legal framework in this area, regulate alarmers, alert procedures, alarming rights, the obligations of state and other bodies and organisations, as well as legal and physical persons in connection with the alert. We also apply the National Anti-Corruption Strategy from 2013 to 2018, as well as the Action Plan for the implementation of this strategy. The proposed law also extends the circle of protection of persons outside state officials, so protection can also be sought by persons in both the public and private sectors, regardless of whether they are in a permanent working relationship, engaged under a work contract, as volunteers and employed in the status of undeclared persons, persons in the employment process, public service users, small shareholders and the like. In this way, full protection is provided and the shortcomings of inadequate and partial protection of certain categories of alarmers, as currently exists in our legislation, are being addressed. The proposal is intended to encourage alarming actions through this law and to provide and guarantee special protection, i.e. to contribute to encouraging potential alarmers and to establishing an effective mechanism for the disclosure of corruption and other criminal offences. It is important to point out that this proposal protects and connects officials and other persons, thereby preventing retaliatory action against persons involved in the alert procedure directly, directly or through the conduct of an official alert action. Special attention is being paid to the court's alarming procedure. The introduction of an emergency procedure provides faster protection of alarming rights. In addition, it is possible not only in the second instance, but also in the third instance to verify the court's decision through the possibility of taking an emergency legal remedy. The law provides for an investigative principle contrary to the principle of disposition, which is characteristic of the area of litigation and in order to protect the alarmors, so that the court can also determine those facts which are not disputed among the parties, or which no party has brought into action. I would point out that this bill regulates the indirect principle of confidentiality, and any violation of this principle produces sanctions against whoever did it. The bill will not create new costs, but will expect positive effects on the budget and the overall economy. Due to all the above, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support the law in a voting day. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now move to an equally important law, which so far has not been mentioned by anyone in the debate, which is the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on extradition. The Republic of Serbia has signed this agreement with other countries of the region, such as Croatia, Montenegro, Macedonia, and such a contract is signed between themselves and the state itself. These types of contracts and agreements are important for improving regional co-operation, good neighbourly relations, as one of the preconditions for EU accession. Not only that, but this law is important from another point of view, which is the inability to allow the perpetrator of crimes to hide in another country of the region and thus avoid criminal proceedings or the execution of the sentence to which they are convicted. This applies in particular to the Balkan and former Yugoslavia region, where different ways can easily result in the citizenship of these countries, as well as similar speaking areas that allow easy communication and integration of different criminal groups. It can be said that a parallel with a European arrest warrant, which represents one of the conditions for EU accession, whose application was a problem for some countries that have recently approached it. Namely, by this order, one EU Member State requests to arrest and hand over a person for prosecution or for the execution of criminal sanctions. Accordingly, this contract, signed on 5 September 2013, which in the voting day, I hope, will allow for the extradition of a person prosecuted for criminal offences or sought for the execution of a prison sentence or other measures involving the confiscation of freedom in accordance with the law of the Contracting States. This Treaty refers to prosecution for criminal offences for which a sentence of imprisonment or a measure involving the withdrawal of liberty for a period of at least one year is prescribed in the law of the State of prayer and in the right of the requested State. Also, this contract applies to perpetrators of criminal offences, who have been legally sentenced to prisons or measures involving the confiscation of freedom for at least four months, and also, as in the case of prosecution, extradition will be allowed if it is punishable under both states' right. It may allow extradition if it applies to several crimes, and some of them do not meet the requirements regarding the level of criminal sanctions. One of the significant provisions of this Treaty is the extradition of its own citizens to another State signatories, as well as in the previous case, in order to prosecute or to enforce the fines imposed by law or the measures of confiscation of freedom. However, the difference is that this type of extradition refers to individual crimes, which are crimes of organised crime, corruption and money laundering, for which the prescribed sentence is closed for at least four years, which is also provided for by domestic law. This is also about criminal prosecution. When it comes to extradition for execution, this contract is applied to the same crimes but a sentence in the deprivement of freedom for at least two years has been imposed. I would also underline a parallel here with a European arrest warrant, where the positive enumeration also provides for criminal acts to which the warrant applies. However, this warrant envisions a wider circle of criminal acts and has 32. For example, terrorism, human trafficking, illegal drug trafficking, environmental crime, high-tech crime, money counterfeiting, armed robbery, racism, xenophobia, rape, etc. However, this agreement between the Republic of Serbia and BiH also provides for the possibility of handing over its own citizens and other crimes other than those mentioned in the contract itself, which is a prosecution for more serious crimes for which the sentence of imprisonment or the measure of deprivement of freedom for at least five years is foreseen, and for the execution of at least two years. This Treaty will also take into account the rights of the person to be extradited, which refers to persons who enjoy asylum in the territory of the requested State, then, applying the principle not bis and I am going, which means that if a person is convicted or released for a criminal offence for which extradition is sought, or the procedure has been legally suspended or the indictment has been legally rejected in the requested State or third country, such a person will not be extradited. Then you take care of obsolescence, amnesty. The missing persons will not be extradited, etc. If there are more requests for extradition, the severity of the offence committed will be taken into account, the time of submission of requests for extradition, the place of execution, the nationality of the person, as well as the possibility of his further extradition to another country. I would again refer to the European arrest warrant, which also, as well as this agreement, implies the possibility of simplified extradition procedures, but only if certain assumptions are met, which is the consent of the person to be extradited. All in all, I call on all the MPs, including those who declare themselves to be good regional co-operation and good neighbourly relations for Serbia's European path, to vote in favour of this law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and BiH on extradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13920	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the esteemed guests, is very bad, I think, when some practical action defiles a good idea, and I think that's exactly what we have for today's debate on our proposal for a law on the protection of alarmers. That is why Zoran Zivkovic and I will vote against this bill, which does not mean that we are against the idea that alarmers should be protected. I'm here to offer two arguments that make it my opinion that the most appropriate action of a national MP in this National Assembly is exactly what Mr. Zivkovic and I advocate today. Of course, as always, with every encounter here and with Mr. Selakovic, I'm willing to cross arguments if we think differently about some things, and it's obvious that we're thinking differently here. First of all, to mention here, it seems to me that during the day a little bit has gone into oblivion of what it is and the alarming and what it is, who it is, just to get our little debate back on track. He says - it's an alarm, and it says in Article 2. Proposal for a law, disclosure of information on violations of regulations, violations of human rights, public authority against purpose, which is why life threats are entrusted, etc. Of course, based on this definition, we automatically conclude that alarming can bring some general good and that attracts our attention and we want to sort this thing out in the best possible way. Who's the alarm man? A natural person who carries out an alert in relation to his employment, employment procedure, use of services of state and other bodies, public authorities, etc. What's natural? I conclude, of course, that we are dealing with how best to protect the alarmer. Should the alarm be protected? There's no dilemma for anyone. But, gentlemen, the alarmer shouldn't be half-protected, which I think is if the bill is passed the way it is now. I must, too, and it is important to me, to call on the opinion and the Anti-Corruption Agency, which gave its analysis of this bill. For me, it's an institution worth respecting. There are people sitting in that institution fighting corruption. What did people tell you about this bill? That there is a concern that this bill will not achieve its purpose and that it will not contribute to encouraging potential alarmers and the establishment of an effective mechanism to expose illegality and irregularities. That's why, by reading this text, the two of us have submitted 27 amendments. I believe, gentlemen, above all from the SNS, that this fear and people working at the Agency is particularly justified when it is seen as a determination in relation to and on this bill by some system of conviction and the system of action that promotes this government and which is generally promoted in society. Which person, here I am asking anyone from the SNS here today, will wish to be an alarmer, even assuming we adopt this bill, when on our streets of our cities in broad daylight, the prominent professors of Belgrade University are physically attacked, for example. As on Saturday, what happened to one of the prominent Belgrade University professors, Dean of the Faculty of Political Sciences, Professor Ilija Vujacic? We attend a brutalization of society here. The state often behaves as a bully and we expect some person to be offered this bill of half-determination to be an alarmer under such circumstances. The only appropriate approach, Mr Selakovic, in this situation was to withdraw this bill, so that what happened to us about the notary debate would not happen, that after two months you had to come to the Serbian Parliament, to accept that you were wrong, to change some of the things they warned you about not being good at, Mr Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13922	Time, Mr. Pavicevic. Mr. Jovicic, on what grounds? (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: He mentioned SNS. He said the state was a bully. I don't understand. It's nothing. He just took it as an example. Please don't. No, you have no basis for replication. (Biljana Pantic Pija, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Here is the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13923	You have violated the provisions of Articles 106 and 107. You let the previous speaker say that this country is being violent. Please take action and apply this Rules of Procedure. I understand that a colleague is not a lawyer and does not know, when he says that the greatest security alarm can be obtained by the Anti-Corruption Agency. This law provides for judicial protection. There's no more protection than court. We're talking about a bully state. Is this the House of the National Assembly or are we at the market? Please take action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13924	Let me just answer that. There are a lot of hard words, I agree with you, with that, but it's very hard for me to always respond, but you have the right to plead. That's what we'll do in voting day. No, I don't. Mr. Jovicic, you still want to be an authorised representative, right? Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13925	Thank you, Your Honor. I will choose the words and the height of my decibels in this address will be on an appropriate level, not as a previous speaker. He thinks he can replace the lack of arguments by yelling. We don't have a problem with anything he's yelling at, but what he says is that this is a bully state. The Republic of Serbia is today a regulated country and is trying to establish a system in our country just so that we never have a situation in our country again, as was when his distinguished colleague ruled this country, and we see nothing controversial about it. When you say that the Anti-Corruption Agency has expressed some views, why does the previous speaker not say that the European Commission has praised the draft of this law, then the EU agrees with that? Why isn't that what you're talking about? No one's gonna mention that, of course. The Council of Europe, no one mentions it, because you are afraid to mention that you are against those you advocated and where you led the country in the previous period, but at the height of your vote you are trying to impose some attitudes, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia very much recognize the determination of this government that the corruption you produced in your misdeeds, irresponsible behaviours, not only of the previous speaker, given that he did not participate only in Serbia's political life, joined very late, but therefore in Montenegro's territory he tried to find his place and then in the Liberal Democratic Party he tried, so he did not succeed there either, he finally found a haven and we have nothing against it, but don't deceive the citizens of Serbia, do not tell the truth. As for bringing to justice those who have beaten someone, be assured that Serbia and the authorities of our country will do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13926	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, two things are very important to mention about this speech by Mr Jovicic. First, Mr. Jovicic said that I led this country, spoke to me as a previous speaker, that I created some corruption here. Dear Mr Arsenovic, I have never led this country, I have never been in power, and for the first time I have been elected to the MP in the elections that we had in March 2014 and here, in this assembly, I am struggling to change this bad power, to just come to power, Mr Arsenović, which I believe will be after the next elections. The other thing is, I've asked important questions here. Dear gentlemen, my question was next and here's to expand it a little bit. Dear Mr Arsenovic, I have asked myself about the motion to protect the alarmer – which man will wish to be an alarmer when he estimates that he lives in a country where we have terrible violence every day, a brutalization of society, and in which the government of this country, as I understand it, based on these images, leads violently. I asked a question, dear Mr Arsenovic, how someone would apply to be an alarmer when he observes, for example, the internal conflicts of members of the Progressive Party in Somboro, who argue over the transparency of public finances, respected gentlemen, and all under one mask that they are now fighting corruption through websites instead of fighting corruption being institutionalised, respected gentlemen and Mr Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13928	The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13929	Article 107. - dignity. As the Honorable Minister Selakovic said, half the truth is much worse than untrue, but the previous speaker acts as if a member of a former parliamentary party had already been detained, than the uninformed ones, so I would inform both him and the Serbian public that they were suspected of attacking the Dean of the Faculty of Political Sciences and were ordered to hold them for 48 hours, which means that the state is doing its job, as did those who took part in the attack on a national frequency building. We are proud of it, but it is very dangerous when someone swears on this parliamentary honor, not telling the truth, but I will ask him and you both how the citizens of Serbia felt in 2003, 2004. Three-time murder of Brajović Darka, 1978, Bojanić Aleksandra, 1979, Simović Nebojsa, 1977. Who was the Prime Minister? Who was the interior minister, federal, republican, whatever? The double murder of Trailovic Borislav and Dragica, 1934 and 1937. A double murder against Father Milic Dragan, 1951, and Mother Dragan, 1951, also in Svilajnc. The double murder of the parents of Georgiev Vasile and Ljubinke, 1920. Double homicide of Draginja Obradovic, 1959, underage brother Zoran, 1988. Deprived of the life of Josic Zdenko, 1954. Deprived of the life of Arsin Milka, the life of taxi driver Shuman Behudin, 1959. Do you know how few minutes for this replica, the most serious crimes were committed in 2003, 2004? Never the perpetrator is the one who was found responsible, and this state, the MUP, shows its strength. I don't know if Mr. Pavicevic is threatening me with a book because he's waving around all the time until he's got his word, and I think people called before Mr. Pavicevic did. Is he not comfortable with the state doing its job? I only ask him to be informed or not to abuse any half-truth or false in the name of parliamentary contrition, if he has it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13930	Since I gave my word based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I owe a little comment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Take it easy. There are other MPs here who have called. Take it easy, you'll all get your turn, but I have to fulfill my obligation. Mr. Pavicevic, sit down, please. I'll give you my word, but wait a minute. You know I can't verify the truths and the half-truths here. The best thing would be if people were telling the truth, but that's every single person's business. Do you want us to make a statement in voter's day? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13931	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm advertising a breach of Article 109. In fact, the second time the distinguished predecessor mentioned that this was a violent state, and we had previously pointed out that this was indeed a flagrant violation of this House's dignity and in any way an insult to this state, you were obliged to give him a warning. You didn't do it, and it's a shame to say that some country in which even though those who once funded may be some on the other side are going to jail today, and we don't have a problem with saying that this country can process some Cosmic and some Ljubisa Bhuhu Chumeta and some others you know from that period, someone today calls the country a bully, and in that case, we have to tell you, about Dean Vujačić and there are the perpetrators. Of course, you have to tell the MP. There's no need to yell so much. We hear extremely well and, of course, there is no need in such a way to violate Parliament's dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13932	Please, it's the same content. I don't have another one. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day? (No) Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Mr Arsenovicu, the Honored Minister Selakovic and the Honored Guests. I think Mr. Babic's speech injured his Rules of Procedure, and that's what I'm saying. 108th and 112th, Mr. Arsenovicu. Mr. Babic has reported that he is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You gave him the word on the basis of a report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr Babic used the time not to explain in which way the injured Rulesman, the respected Mr Arsenovic, was injured, but to replicate to me what I was saying earlier and, by the way, respected Mr Arsenovic, said that Mr Babic also said that he was concerned that this book, which bears the title "The Collection of Regulations", might not be used for something else, and not for what it serves. I concluded, dear Mr. Arsenovic, that Mr. Babic was afraid of books. There's no reason, gentlemen, that any MP, any citizen of this country, should say the inhabitants of this planet, are afraid of books. The book can only bring good, respected gentlemen, and as far as bringing the perpetrators of this misdemeanor to the Faculty of Political Sciences and the Dean of the College where I am engaged, Ilija Vujačić. It's not a respected gentlemen's key question, who's the direct perpetrator, but who ordered this misdemeanor, what's the motive for these people to order this act? Because two months ago, Professor Vujacic told all of us that he was being blackmailed, that he was faced with threats, that he had to leave the dean's place, otherwise he would be physically attacked, which is exactly what happened on Saturday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13934	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, now you explain to me the difference between your violation of the Rules of Procedure and Mr. Babic, and then I will express whatever measure you say. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I can explain. Don't, I won't let you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: You asked. I want to say something else. Please, I won't allow double arches. I agree and tolerate that every MP has a need to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to look back a little bit on some kind of replica. It's impossible to explain it so dryly, but to ask that others can't do it and take it for granted, I don't think it's right. Therefore, I believe there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is your right to plead. You want us to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. Thank you. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Don't, please, let's go to one extreme. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: There is no point in what he said. ) The word has a Minister Selakovic, who has long been waiting, but I had to respect the injuries of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13935	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and an authorised representative of the proposings, I really must respond at the moment when someone is insulting his claims to common sense. Insulting common sense is that in a country where there is a senseless beating, for example, a brother of the Prime Minister, in which attempts to blackmail his son and himself are being made, and in which someone, I quote, is leading the power of a bully, and that was the second time using that term, it is something that really offends his health. The government of the Republic of Serbia is exposed and should be exposed, always, to control by elected representatives of the people, by the MPs, but when someone accuses you of rape, and does not say a single thing, not a single act, in which is this power a bully? What is this power of violence? Now that we've come to that, let's also remember the ethics of responsibility. So someone here can say a few weeks ago that one official earned 180,000 euros in a month without ever telling us which official earned 180,000 euros. In that case, don't apologize. I think they're rules of good behavior. Each of us is bound by the words we say, and each of us should be subject to the ethics of responsibility, as well as by the one who accuses the Government of being a bully and the one who can present here a flat-rate qualification that someone has earned a great deal of money in a month without ever saying who he thinks of and has never proven such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13936	What occasion did you stand up for? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) You didn't get the right to replication I know you've reached out to the replica, but you haven't received the right to the replica, since the circle of the replica is closed. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I applied for the replica.]] It lasted about an hour. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Will I get the right to the replica? You won't be entitled to a replica. I'm closing the lines so we can take the seat a little further. I'm sorry. The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Let the People's MP Alexander Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13937	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, the draft code on alarmers we have on the agenda today is another proof that this government and the ministry headed by Mr. Nikola Selakovic are dealing with corruption in Serbia and are determined in this fight. We heard today from some colleagues who belong to the former regime a sharp criticism of the bill, so my question is addressed to them – why did they not pass such a law, or even better? It's not hard to bring a better one, if they could bring it, but they didn't make any proposals like this or anything like that. It may have prevented them from passing such a law because of the various machinations they were doing and that they were punished by citizens in the elections they were making a few months ago. This is the first concrete and comprehensive law to be passed to protect alarmers who have received a positive opinion both from the European Commission and the Council of Europe. The United States is the first country to adopt a special code on alarmers and with them is the law of the pillar of democracy. They were best protected by alarmers, or whistles in whistles, as they were called there. Unfortunately, corruption in Serbia in previous years has become a way of life for some. I believe that the adoption of such a bill will significantly change this way of conduct and at least one part eradicate corruption that pervades almost all pores of society in Serbia, which is successfully fought by this government. It is sad that today, from those who have been in power for the past 12 years, who represent the opposition, we hear only a sentence that this government is not engaged enough in fighting corruption, and that is said only in the naked struggle for power. They didn't do anything while they were in power, and they don't do anything constructive or contribute as supporters of the opposition. This bill encourages people in both the public and private sectors to report corruption because those who report corruption so far have been unprotected and very often exposed to shagging. The alerter is now provided with the best possible protection in the form of judicial protection, so the draft law clearly prescribes subjective and objective deadlines for filing an action, as well as the jurisdiction of the higher, not the basic court, as well as the possibility of making the legal remedy known to the Supreme Cassation Court. Citizens who report corruption do not do so because of the reward, but because their conscience tells them to, and those citizens need to protect, because those who have raised their voice against corruption, against evil, must not have any consequences to bear, and they have suffered in previous years. By adopting this law, the state will protect citizens who report corruption because this is how the system is built, but also those who interfere with the disclosures must be punished. GREECE as an instrument of the Council of Europe gave Serbia a recommendation 21, 2005, but then the government had no understanding of the problem of corruption, in which the system obviously functioned very well, so they extended the deadline for us to bring in some instruments to protect the alarmers. Research has also shown that the largest corruption in health and education is then in the judiciary and the police. The minister has already mentioned some examples that I'm going to mention. An example of a judge who was not re-elected in 2009. Then was the famous re-election of judges, who should enter, I propose, but this way, Minister of Justice, to enter the law school books that should not be reformed by the judiciary. A judge who worked 24 years without any stain in his career has not been re-elected. She addressed Serbia's president to the submission at the time, which she explained and pointed to corruption in the Sabak court. Someone called from the president's office and threatened her. They immediately received information from that submission and threatened the judge. They filed a defamation suit against her, which was, of course, rejected. So the former regime then protected people who worked fairly, who had the conscience to report corruption. If we had one of these laws back then, maybe what happened to Vojvodina Development Bank wouldn't have happened. Maybe one of the employees would report what kind of machinations are going on there. Some examples have also been mentioned selectively here by the former regime's MPs. I'll give another example, I think the minister mentioned him, and that's the doctor who revealed what's going on at the Institute of Sremska Kamenica. There were waiting lists, death lists were then named. People from Serbia were placed on waiting lists for radiation, while foreign citizens paid certain doctors from three to 5,000 euros to get radiation treatment. That's how much it cost your life. The doctor who reported this suffered a real gogoto, was threatened to be sued for breaking the reputation of the Institute, and the Agency for the Combating Corruption, which you mentioned in 2013, brought a measure to the Director of the Institute's discharge, but disagreed with the province's rule, headed by Mr. Bojan Pajtic, so the gentleman who was director of the Institute waited calmly for the end of his term. So much for doing something against corruption. There are too many cases like this. I don't want to count them all now. I've heard from some of my colleagues. We have also witnessed in recent years that we have had various corruption affairs that are just now coming out, and the best example might be the Vojvodine Development Bank or the purchase of MPs in the AP Vojvodina Assembly, when the title came out in one newspaper -- how much does a live scale MP cost? I hope that by adopting such a law, we will no longer be witnesses to watch the MPs buy themselves. I call on everyone to cast their vote in the voting day to fight corruption and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13938	I apologize to a colleague I called. The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13939	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens, respected ministers, dear guests, what this morning was the subject of also on the Justice Committee is something that deeply dissuaded us that the honest intention of proposing is to protect those who are in need of protection and for the simple reason that a certain Mr. Radomir Ilic, I don't know whether he was an assistant or a secretary of state, in one of the failed attempts to answer many of the questions that I had, for which I had both a personal concern and a personal misunderstanding, but also what was my obligation as an MP to ask, and as regards the comment of "Transparency of Serbia", which had not answered the questions asked, we received at the end of a phrase, one that answered us very much, that it came from the assumption that the alarmer would use this law to blackmail, in order to blackmail, or to protect the matter from this proposal. We think that the issue and purpose and purpose of this law, namely this proposal, have been missed, and that is indeed a big problem for DS lawmakers. We will try to restore the essence of this law through the submission of various amendments and depending on it in the voting day we will define whether we will support this law or not. The way this proposal is, he's not complete and not comprehensive. This bill ultimately protects more one who carries out an illegal operation than I am an alarmer. The Anti-Corruption Agency has misjudged this proposal very badly. This proposal just ruled out the Anti-Corruption Agency from the alarming process, which makes it unsatisfactory for Serbia itself. To point out, the alarmer in Serbia today has 91. They themselves had a grudge against this bill. The alarmers think this proposal doesn't protect enough of them in their line of work. Finally, the proposal is not in line with the Action Plan on the fight against corruption, and apparently the initial proposal that came to the government, or the resolution minister of the ministry in charge, did not receive a positive assessment. The substance that has become changed is not to be encouraged but to be disabled in some way or to be silenced. This bill is a typical example of what it looks like when the proposing has the opportunity to solve this problem in a comprehensive way and one very important thing, but for completely unclear reasons, it eventually gives up. I have the impression that although the proposal is not complete and that I have to give a confession in some way, although it has a large number of flaws, it is still the first step towards solving such important problems. This was an opportunity to show genuine desire and to protect those who fight daily in their jobs against illegal, unfair acts of corruption, to protect those who are bold to report numerous corrupt actions, as my predecessor Mr Pavicevic or Mrs Aida Corovic said. Today, it is not the case in Serbia that someone really dares to do this and risks his professional career to point to some or to some illegal activities. Often these shops and immoral ones pass before the eyes of those who do not have the courage to act as alarmers. The result is half of what I have already mentioned that through various amendments we will try to restore the purpose and purpose of this law. To remind ourselves, through history, what actually means am the alarmer, which is the expression for a brave individual or individual who, for high moral reasons, publicly speaks about illegal or immoral acts of authority or organisation or at all about the body and organisation, and that is at the very beginning of the bill proposal in some way and played because the proposed member of the law, if you will allow me, Article 2, quote – the alarmer is a natural person who carries out the alert in relation to his work engagement, the employment process, the use of services of state and other bodies, public authority holders or public services, business co-operation and the right of ownership of a company. The end of the quote. The very reasons you have given for this proposal do not show why a restriction has been made on the basis of those forms of connection between the alarmers and the authorities or organisations where public interests have been threatened above all. It is not clear why alarming status would be conditioned by any form of connection between alarmers and organs in which a breach of public interest occurred. It's what's the first thing that comes into your eyes and kind of casts a shadow on this whole process. Such a restriction, to underline and to point out, is not envisaged by an action plan to implement the anti-corruption strategy and international standards, and we have touched them several times today, on the need to protect the rights of persons who provide information on the threat of public interest and that is what is being made impossible by this proposal. So narrow down the circle of faces that may be alarming casts a shadow of sincere intent to protect anyone who bravely fights illegal acts and immoral acts, both those bodies, so superior to the given organizations. I would mention here, when it comes to comparative legislation, an example of Hungary, in which in the Law on Appeals and Reports of Public Meaning of 2013 it is written that anyone can address it with a complaint or with a public application of public importance to the competent authority, which is one completely different thing than what is today's draft law. Then, I want to ask one question, which I hope will be answered, and about the comments made by Transparency Serbia. Is it possible that an individual or a body potentially carrying out retribution, or a harmful action against the alarmer, can, without any problem, bypass the legislator's intention and claim that the action is not a result of the alarm, but of some other factors? There you have, of course, as you know, a thousand and one example in practice. The alarmer's been cut off because he doesn't come to work on time and in this way someone punishes himself for those things he puts out in public. Also, when you say, and it is the information in the bill itself, that information can be referred to as very dangerous occurrences for the lives and health of people and serious crimes, as well as violations of regulations, I underline, for which no punishment is at all threatened or punished as a violation, in some cases of these injuries, you are aware of that, they can be completely harmless. When it comes to abuse, which was also discussed on the board this morning, and I hear today in the assembly debate, would it be justified to launch a complex alarm protection mechanism that points to controversial and minor violations of regulations? You also know how often it can happen that sometimes it does not extend the validity of personal documents and that it is the basis of the alarm and that at the end of the bill itself, that is, when the law is passed, it goes to some opposite of itself and turns into a means of shagging and harassing. When it comes to the content of the complaint, in Article 26, I would particularly like you to pay attention to the bill, the bill provides that an alert suit may require the determination that a harmful action, a ban on the conduct and repetition of a harmful action, the removal of the consequences of the damage to the action, the compensation of material and immaterial damages and the publication of judgments on the costs of the defendant. So what does this proposal tell us today? When we talk about the protection of alarmers, it would be of paramount importance if the possibility of more serious punishment for perpetrators so-called. harmful actions, as fear of the consequences of retribution is one of the most common reasons for not reporting corruption today in Serbia. We think that if the perpetrator of a harmful action is not or is not punished, it is more likely that he will repeat it. Article 26(2) explicitly excludes the possibility that an alert-related suit is refuting the legality of the employer's individual act, which addresses the rights, obligations and responsibilities of a working relationship employee, which is also very well known. The largest number of retributions and negative actions are realized by precisely the measurements of this species. Reduction of wages, cancellation, suspension, transfer to another post, etc. There are other shortcomings. I will now, although I don't have time to talk and talk about everything, only to those who are most important. I'll underline what I already mentioned at the beginning. Why is legal protection only enjoyed by persons who are in a certain relationship with a body or company who have been compromised by public interest, instead of any citizen who points to an adverse phenomenon? That's the basic question. Second, to what extent is the protection against retribution provided by third parties according to the alarmers? That's very ticklish. You will say – it is regulated in Article 6, but it is not precise enough. So, retaliations that are given to alarmers by third parties, not directly by their employer or colleagues, or protection is not predicted at all, or it is completely unclear. Under three, no special criminal acts are provided, were neither in the draft nor through amendments to the Criminal Code that would be proposed together with the adoption of this law, for persons who threaten alarmers, for those who unauthorizedly reveal their identity, or for those who falsely report a threat to public interest, although they know that the data they give is untrue. And when it comes to the secrecy of the data, we have a thousand grudges that we will try again through amendments and some quality debate to show the citizens that there are huge shortcomings in this bill. Many comments, many objections and proposals are ultimately not accepted, even when it comes to relevant institutions, without any explanation. That's very strange for us. We hope that at least now we will get an answer to these specific questions. Unless amendments and suggestions are accepted, we will continue to suffer various abuses, and in many cases we will not be able to protect those few alarmers in Serbia, I repeat, there are 91, which can indicate illegality and immoral actions when it comes first to public interest. I sincerely hope that through these questions, which would essentially change the proposal itself, we will come together to a concrete and comprehensive solution. I think it's very important that through the amendments themselves, and I think that as a minister and you yourself are aware of the shortcomings, let's make this bill a law that will solve this problem in a more comprehensive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13940	There's only 20 seconds left for the MP's group, computer. We're not walking anymore. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13941	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will respond to a number of statements concerning one of today's topics of the agenda, which is a draft law on the protection of alarming officers. Several speakers said the Anti-Corruption Agency is concerned that the purpose of the law will not be achieved. Every fear is justified, especially when you haven't been able to influence anything. The Anti-Corruption Agency, unfortunately, categorically refused to participate in a task force that wrote the draft law. So, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, at the call for participation in a wide-ranging task force, which is to write a draft law that should be discussed and decided by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, such an agency paid by the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia, such an agency whose authorities are elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not want to participate in the draft law on the protection of alarmers. It's about like that voter who gets an opportunity once every four years to go to the polls, to define that he votes, and he doesn't go out to vote, and then for the next four years he criticises. It's not controversial, it's legitimate. I just don't know if it's legitimate to express fear. Is it legitimate to criticize, and until yesterday you could participate in creating something? Is it legitimate that the citizens of the state are paying you for something so you're invited to participate in creating a normative framework with defining something that you might be doing, and you don't want to participate? So, the Anti-Corruption Agency of the Republic of Serbia refused to participate in the work of the task force to draft the Alerter Protection Act. A number of other questions have been asked, and I would take this opportunity to answer such questions. A few false things have been said, complete lies. I am responsible, although I was not at the Justice Committee's session that none of my associates said it was from the assumption that the alarmer would abuse his status to advance his business. As far as I know, the meetings of the Justice Committee are being recorded, so I'd like to, and I'll ask the transcript services of that session and see if anyone really said that. As far as I know, he didn't say absolutely. I don't understand one thing, different voices were heard, and I doubted that the National Assembly's calling for a meeting that unanimously supports the policy of the European integration of the Republic of Serbia does not do so unanimously anymore. In front of you today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a bill on the protection of alarmers who received excellent reviews and comments from the Council of Europe and the European Commission. So the final draft law, which has been passed and established as a proposal, received the best assessments of the Council of Europe and the European Commission. To make matters even better, the same foreign experts from the United States and the UK who participated in writing a model of the alarming law also participated in writing a draft, namely today's proposal for a law on the protection of alarmers that is before you. These same people, Mrs. Tom Devine and Paul Stevenson, said this was an extraordinary legal text. The same ones who participated in the task force formed by the trustee and in the task force formed by the justice minister said the better text done by the Justice Ministry's working group. I'm very happy to work with NGOs. I've always been willing to accept their participation in the workgroups. He rarely involved them in working groups. He's always heard of what they argued. Why have I now come to doubt whether this parliament truly unanimously supports the European integration of the Republic of Serbia? Because the opinion of a non-governmental organisation is more appreciated here than the opinion of a pan-European organisation that brings together 47 different countries. The opinion of an NGO is more appreciated here than the opinion of the European Commission. This is where the law promoter is spoken and attacked, which clearly defined the alarmer. I guess whoever's talking doesn't know it was an explicit request from the Council of Europe. So, the Council of Europe, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has explicitly demanded that the role of alarmers be tied to work. Unlike some previous text where it says that the alarmer can be every physical face of the Council of Europe has said – he can't. That's not what the Council of Europe says because it wants him to, but because there are certain acts behind it, certain recommendations from the same Council of Europe. Because the Council of Europe is not an NGO that does not commit what it says, but because the Council of Europe is one of the most important European institutions of this type whose task is to protect human rights. That same Council of Europe says in its expert opinion – you must, gentlemen of the Republic of Serbia, bind the status of alarmers for working status. Then he explains and tells us why. According to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, therefore, the European Court of Human Rights, which is a judicial institution within the Council of Europe, the alarming person is understood in the broadest sense. It is the only person or part of a small group of people who are aware of illegal practices at work, so they are the most invited to act in the public interest and to alarm the employer to remove irregularities, or to address society in general. So the alarmer belongs to a small circle of people who can be aware of illegality precisely because they reveal inside information so-called. insider information and may have direct consequences for its working status or other personal goods. Simply put, the alarmer reveals internal information that may be of public interest, which we could not easily find out otherwise. Information that other persons may disclose or report does not have the character of internal information to this end or is about information that is not so internal and well-hidden. It further says the European Court of Human Rights, therefore, not some NGO but the European Court of Human Rights should also point to the difference between the alarmer and the complaint. So, just what someone mentioned that there is absolute freedom to appeal in Hungary. There is one with us, absolutely. In the opinion of the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights, the alarm exists when employees show allegations of danger or illegality that has an effect on others. It's not a complaint. It's true and clearly defined what the alarmer's information can indicate. One example has been given, and I am sorry that this example is not then put into function of this bill, so that whoever has read the bill well, the one who has good legal knowledge can apply that law, can also answer the one that sets itself. He says what if we say a person who's an alarm man is late for work, and then because he's late for work, it's said what we're going to do if we have an alarmer who's getting paid, then justice is being delayed. Whoever read the law well can see that there is something in it that I spoke well of in the opening letter, which is the reverse burden of proof. Then it's the employer who has to prove why someone's getting paid. Then a solution that reduces someone’s salary, which is moved to another workplace, which has been suspended, puts them out of force. That's what this bill says. When you rip one piece out of context, then you can do whatever you want with it. When you look at it in the context of this bill, then you see that such an argument falls. It is my fault that there are institutions in Serbia that are funded from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which have sometimes not come up with a degree of responsibility for Serbian citizens. When you invite them to support you in something of general interest, and they say, we will not participate. It is my fault that there are state authorities in Serbia who are more willing to behave much more as if they are the non-governmental sector than if they were state authorities. So once again to mention one thing, why is there a limited definition of an alerter to a working person being identified as an alerter? Because that's what the Council of Europe asked for. The Council of Europe asked for this based on the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights. If someone convinces me that the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights is weaker than the opinion of any NGO, whatever it is it is, I will say that someone is right. But the Council of Europe, in my humble opinion, is incomparably stronger, not than one, but a whole series of NGOs or, as we would say Serbian, citizens' associations. If any association of citizens, whatever it may be, and I respect the associations mentioned here and said one false thing, when it comes to whistles. The whistle was involved in the design of this draft, and it was not involved in the design of the model. The people in the whistles I've had several times how to see who, talk to them, they didn't say this was a bad legal proposal. They gave, if I'm not mistaken, one amendment was submitted and of course we'll consider it. Exactly what the same Council of Europe is saying and what does the European Commission say in its opinion why is the draft better? Because the wider circle of subjects was involved in its creation. In addition to saying that those who wrote the bill, they were not paid for it, as is not paid for making any other legislation, or a bill of law by the Ministry of Justice. I want to believe that there is a good faith that some legal solutions that seem incomplete or bad or inadequate are improved. If someone thinks he is stronger than the Council of Europe, than the European Court of Human Rights, of the European Commission and tries to impose his opinion on the MPs, then the best way to do it is by running in the elections, by starting either his own group of citizens or political parties, by running in elections, by going to elections, by winning a good number of votes, and by forming power afterwards. Anything else, with the best will and desire, if it doesn't go through the task force, so I'm going to give some MPs that they're pushing it for me, is legitimate, but it's just not so good. I believe that in this National Assembly, all the MPs of order, educated enough, high enough, wise enough, to sit down and write the amendments themselves, if they think something is wrong. Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13942	No, you have no right to a replica. It's not worth it, a few speakers spoke, and that was the only thing I could notice that the promoter put out here, or Minister Selakovic. So he did not personalize the answer, or exposure, to everyone. How do you interpret, but how does the chairman interpret, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next speaker is Aleksandar Markovic, and Vesna Martinovic can respond if he wants 20 seconds after MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13943	Dear Minister, I believe that today's agenda is full of extremely important points, primarily I think of the draft law on the protection of alarmers, but also of the other draft laws and decisions on the agenda. When it comes to the draft law on the protection of alarmers, I believe it is one of the most necessary anti-corruption laws. I express confidence and satisfaction that we hope to adopt this bill, because it is important that Serbia gets this anti-corruption law. It is important that Serbia gets this law, a law that will establish effective and effective alarming protection, a law that will encourage and motivate potential alarmers, a law that will achieve a functional mechanism of disclosure of all illegalities and irregularities. I think it is very important to point out that this bill, as Mr. Minister himself has pointed out earlier, has received a positive opinion from the most important European institutions, and I am thinking primarily of the European Commission, but also of the Council of Europe. I recall the country groups' recommendation to fight corruption in the Council of Europe, but it is also important to point out that this bill stems primarily from the National Anti-Corruption Strategy from 2013 to 2018, as well as the accompanying action plan, which defines the objectives of combating corruption. By adopting this law, we will allow alarmers, i.e. persons who report corruption or breach of the rules, violation of rights, powers or other corrupt acts, their protection of the search and exercise in court, to receive judicial protection in an emergency procedure and within the most urgent time limit. I also consider it important that from now on protection and persons who report corruption in the private sector, which has not been the case and whether they are in a permanent working relationship or what kind of contract they are in. So defined by alarming, one is given wider social support to this face category and to the greatest extent, that is how what we call public interest is protected. The fight against corruption is something that we have put quite high on the agenda of priorities in the work of this government, and I would rather welcome this long-awaited system solution, which will ensure that this category of persons, alarmers, get full protection of the state and society, in order to bring out their knowledge of illegality or corruption. And the very fact that the public debate was exhaustive and extensive, speaks in favour of the importance of this topic and of this law. As I could see in the light of this bill, a large number of experts from significant institutions and organisations gave their opinion and comment on the draft law. So, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Council of Europe, different NGOs such as "Transparency", "Pistal", "The Centre for Euro-Atlantic Studies", and the adoption of this law itself makes it more transparent and quality. I would like to highlight the importance of public awareness of corruption as a socially unacceptable phenomenon and the state's efforts to eradicate that monster, and I see this bill as exactly one of the instruments and mechanisms for such an undertaking. For all these reasons, I feel freedom, but also the obligation to invite MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13944	The word has a folk MP, Ivana Stojiljkovic, and let the MP Vladimir Djukanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13945	Dear Chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we have an extremely important law and more laws today in the joint principled single search, and as an MP of the SNS, I would like to say immediately that I will support all these laws. I would especially like to refer to the draft law on the protection of alarmers. Most of the time, we've all talked about this law here, and I want to speak really affirmatively about this law, especially listening to my previous speakers, especially those who wanted to speak against this law, we couldn't hear strong arguments against it. Even every speech they gave was affirmative to this law, which is why I know that the ministry and this government are on track to revive this law. So this law that is before us is of great importance because almost between it and the fight against corruption, that is, its application is a sign of equality. In order not to repeat the definition, which we have already heard, has been expanded in our country, first of all, so it is about the disclosure of information about violations of regulations and human rights, and the alarmer is a working person who reports some of these kinds of irregularities, of course in the event of an injured general interest. So, alarming protects public interest, reduces corruption and crime. The eradication of corruption is very important and our government is a priority, and it is only possible if everything that happens with state money and with state resources is transparent. Only a country where corruption is at its lowest level is a good investment attractive state and that is exactly what this government's goal is to lead with our President, Alexander Vukic. This law should contribute to the awareness that alarmers are not so-called alarms. The snitches, they're people who are worthy of respect and see no reason at all to suspect that they're going to be human now, of course it won't be a large number, like it never was, but there won't be people who are eager to bring out irregularities and be alarmers when they were ready to be and when the state didn't want to protect them. We've heard examples of how such people ended up. Now there's a law and it needs to be put behind it. What is very important is that in addition to this law that calls on citizens to report irregularities, protection, it should be noted that protection will be given to all. Protection can be permanent and temporary, and it is only temporary that will allow you to protect yourself from shagging, mobbing and quitting. Then it is still necessary to say that there are, yes, also that the law will protect employers from false reports, which is also very important to point out. There are three types of alarms, so that we can contact the employer as an alarmer, then externally to report to the competent authority and public, or to alert the public by publishing information in the means of information, but provided that we have previously addressed the relevant institutions. It should be noted that until now, most verbal campaigns, not fighting, anti-corruption and crime campaigns have been conducted, and that the real struggle becomes only when there is a serious political will and there is a strong state that is happening right now. I agree that the problem, as my colleague pointed out, is being solved by the locals. That's exactly what this government is doing, because it's never been the case so far as this government has done and mentioned the SNS, if we had looked at and examined our ranks first, first of all, from the local level, to make it all work and to implement it, everyone would have had to have that kind of responsibility and to check their ranks, parties, people who had hired before so we could reach the highest level in the fight against corruption. So, without public pressure, neither our country nor the world will be able to change for the better and will not be in line. The state, therefore, cannot without its fellow citizens, they must report from the locals what is going on that the ministry could react, because corruption, as you heard, is a way of life, it is a level of consciousness and attitude about the correctness, that is, the failure of its own procedures. It is also very good to hear that manuals and training are already ready, because this law has to be more affirmative in public to change awareness and that those who are witnesses of fraud can report it without caring for their lives and the lives of their loved ones, as well as to discourage those who deceive you without any conscience. Therefore, as another colleague said, I think the first alarmers to be protected will be a very good example of this law coming to life and, in that sense, the SNS will support the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13946	I thank Mrs Stojiljkovic. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic has the word, and let the MP Tanja Tomaševic Damjanovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13947	Thank you, Mr. Becic. We have before us a law that is in some way a civilization's fluid. I understand to the gentleman who has now left the O.R., which they are against perhaps this law. You know, in 2001, if there was a law like this and there were alarmers, the question is whether all those privatisations could be carried out that way, because someone would probably report it was a clean robbery, not a privatisation. Also, I believe that, let's say, there were alarmers that, Mr. Minister, it would probably never have happened to us "Agro Bank" or "Universal Bank" or "Vojvodine Development Bank", especially where, of course, in a brutal way, the money was robbed by Serbian citizens and where indeed millions and millions were disappearing, and someone was very rich. I guess some alarmer would say, "I'm sorry, but I can't do that," so he'd report it to someone. This is how we've experienced an incredible situation where someone who has the possibility of being close to a cabinet in that period can go on the orders of someone from that office on a phone call without any security or whatever you want, to raise tens of millions of euros to the pretty eyes, of course never to return that money without the state being damaged. It's an indicator of what kind of system we've been living in and what this really was. It really comes to me sometimes when someone on the other hand is objecting to the current government, which, by the way, has the courage to face absolutely every tycoon, every criminal and every criminal to bring about the knowledge of law and not to do any of that selection at all, but rather, the judiciary does its job. I'd just like those on the other side to tell me, and who were they taking in and whether, not them, but their prosecution? I'll tell you, the D.A.'s Office for Combating Organized Crime, you correct me if I'm wrong, in their period of time there were three cases all in total and all in drawers. It only means three objects. At least 24 privatizations have been solved here, but someone started it, some people were brought here and it shows that there is a state here and there is a system. What is now being brought is actually the protection of those people who can't stand injustice and who can't stand the robbery of their own company that they may have been building for years, and now that someone's coming to them and that they're completely destroying them, not just by the company, but, irrelevantly, the unit of local self-government, however, since our municipalities have been severely destroyed as well. Simply, someone who can't take it, now gets that kind of protection, because he wants to report to someone who doesn't do his job in a safe way and who, say, is corrupting someone else's business, let's say. So, I believe, let's say, there was an alarmer, or what happened in Katje, that someone sold the entire agricultural land along the highway and damaged the state by 320 million euros, you'll agree, it's a really impressive and incredible figure. I believe that would never have happened, for example, if some alarmer existed in that company from Katja and, say, informed the competent state authorities about what was going on there. What I might be sending you as some kind of grudge from this law, that's two things, they're related to the procedure itself. Actually, it's about anonymous reports. Why? I don't mind anonymous reports, of course. Someone might want to protect themselves in that way, but they might want to point to the crime that's going on somewhere again. But you know what? If it's given as an imperative norm that the employer is obliged to check it all out, then we'll have, you'll agree, in the appearance of one particular mess, because then that employer will only be involved because we are somehow inclined to set up a colleague, to disabling someone, and to deliberately send even false anonymous applications. Perhaps an anonymous application should have left the possibility, the discretionary possibility for the employer himself to assess what is relevant and what is not. You know, we had it here, and I was saying it at the Justice Committee's session, and we had, say, an application for the President of the Court of Justice in Valjev. That's terrible what they are, if her colleagues really wrote it, what they wrote for her, but they signed up as judges of that court, no one by name and last name, and of course we as the Justice Board didn't even want to consider it because we see it as some anonymous application. Now, according to this logic, we'll be obliged to talk about it sometimes because it was still really difficult qualifications. The question arises whether she wants to be disavowed on purpose, or is that true? If we have so many anonymous reports, that employer will only be constantly engaged in these anonymous reports. Perhaps he should have thought about allowing him the discretionary ability to really assess what is relevant, what is not. The second thing, within the procedure itself, that is, Article 15, is said: "The employer is obliged to inform the alerter of the outcome of the procedure". I apologize, if he's an anonymous alarmer, how will you inform him and put him in charge? So he has to inform someone about it. Of course, one kind of grudge is related to classified information. I admit, I'm closer to what "Pistol" has submitted as an amendment. In my opinion, it must be defined what secret information is. Why? We've had as much as you want the situation in some previous period, especially when it comes to contracts concluded by public enterprises, to make so-called. contracts with a clause of secrecy, damage to the entire state, no one has any idea what the deal was, even some contracts were held in the safe and none of the workers knew what kind of contract was concluded. You know, something like that can't be classified. It's something about citizens, it's money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. According to this, as defined here, it would be classified. I'm kind of inclined to narrow down and say it anyway – it's the secret information that concerns the interest, security of the state, or as it's already defined in the amendment itself. This is how you give a broad interpretation... Neman nothing against, "Fiat" is really one job that benefits the Republic of Serbia, but you know, if we're going to have permanent contracts that are completely blacked out and that nobody can read anything, I don't think it's a very good practice. In this respect, it should be considered and possibly narrowed down as far as classified information is concerned. Anyway, this is something that needs to be supported. I repeat, I understand the opposite side that has gone and which this debate does not seem to be interested in. Why are they against it? Perhaps one day they think they'll return to power and continue their Sundays. If they wanted to, they might have passed a code like this once in a while to protect the alarm clock. During this period, alarmers were generally punished by firing, or "rewarded", because they may have pointed to the problem that is happening in their businesses. Today it's going to change and it's something that's very good. This puts more protection and state property and state-owned enterprises and people who decided to protect both state-owned assets and, of course, public funds, so this is worth supporting, and I will be very pleased with this law, which represents a civil property, to vote for me and, of course, all the MPs and colleagues of the Serbian Progressive Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13948	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word has a minister of justice, Mr. Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13949	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I would refer to these two objections that the distinguished counterpart Djukanovic made. I must tell you, when it comes to this second grudge, to go from it, therefore, the protection of classified information, it is very difficult to find the right measure and not allow the appearance of some Serbian Snouden and thus endanger the national security of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, sanctioning something that would be contrary to the public interest, this dilemma had people working on this bill, and I had my own, and now I can bring that information out, is something that one of my predecessors, doing the function that I'm now in, I've carried out a public procurement under confidentiality. In this public procurement, he packed everything and everything, all justifying the security of the state, so, for example, he packed as one of the items on public procurement of internet connection services between all judicial authorities in Serbia. The Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia paid about 70m dinars annually for the service. In doing so, it was a company that does not own its infrastructure at all to provide such a service. We tried several times to implement the public procurement and each time the public procurement was taken down and, in accordance with the policy that we are leading both transparency and austerity of state resources, thank God, we managed to conduct this public procurement for the first time since the end of the summer, early autumn. You won't believe it, the same company got on that public procurement job of providing the same service – providing internet connection services for judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia, so all courts, all public prosecutors, only now for more than two years, three years after that first public procurement that was classified "confident", that service cost the Ministry of Justice, believe it or not, I think with a tax of about 10 million dinars. This is where I set a concrete example, an example I faced by managing one ministry in the Serbian government. Since we couldn't repeat the purchase in the meantime, we had to close the contract annexes until new procurement was carried out, because the first contract concluded the annex in which it was used until the new procurement was carried out. That's why every one of those purchases was taken down. Annex was such that for the extension of the contract for every month, I don't think I'm going to be wrong, but I think we paid that service at a monthly level of six million dinars, until we managed to conduct a public procurement. I have said this for one single reason – because the proposed amendment, which the Pistol Association has spoken about in public, will be taken seriously into consideration and will try to find the best possible measure and best legal definition in order not to make the data that are really from the impact on national security easily available to the public, thereby jeopardising the same security, and sanctioning those who, under the pretext of confidentiality, are ready for national security to deal with these things as well. And I'm telling you right now, we're happy to work with that firm. They got the job. It's not their fault, someone made it happen, and you take it, so figure out what the inflation rate was, which was the real value of 70 million dinars three years ago and who then succeeded, and then, 70 million was in one year, and then every month, according to the annex, I think about six million. You know, that's one thing someone would say, a contract in one of the ministries, in one of the systems. If one who worked technically on the affairs of these procurements could acquire this alarming status, provided by this bill, I am convinced that such a harmful contract per state would not have been concluded. And where are the public enterprises, where are the other organs? Where are those organs that nobody in Serbia in fact controls? It's a special story. I gave you a direct example of the practice I faced, and I couldn't calm down until the situation was regulated. But I think that this is something that citizens need to know and I think that we will take seriously into consideration the amendments with which the Government of Radomirović and the people of "Pistol" came out, because it is very difficult, you can have confidentiality, or confidentiality, that attribute of an act, some document, some information, how you can use it, very easily and you can abuse it. As for anonymous applications and handling of anonymous reports, the person to whom they are sent will appreciate the seriousness of each of these anonymous reports. You know, a public prosecutor's organization is acting on anonymous reports and if it finds that they're justified and that there's room and that makes sense, then it's up to them to act. Of course, when someone makes an anonymous application that he won't be answered, what one of my friends said, when you asked the question, how will he be answered, so he says - anonymously. So there's no response to the anonymous application. Anonymous reports to me and to me in the cabinet every day from thousands of pages arrive, and I believe that you, too, who are MPs in this honored home, and that when you read, you can often see through that anonymous one, as the people would say, on which side the wind blows and who was about to sign and write something like that. But if the person who has the alarmer has this kind of judicial protection that he never existed before in Serbia and enjoys such protection, I am convinced that the number of anonymous applications will be incomparably smaller than those who will be appointed, therefore, signed by people who will be able to enjoy the protection of their personality, their status for the courage they have shown, and in order to protect public and general interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13950	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13951	Mr. Minister, I have a great pleasure to express, what you just said, that someone will appreciate anonymous applications. The problem, however, is in the text itself, because it is said that the employer is obliged to act on information without delay. Then he can't appreciate it. He owes whatever comes to him to do it. I think maybe there should be an account to allow what I just said, some kind of discretionary possibility by anonymous reports, that someone appreciates their relevance. As for this other thing, I was upset when you just said that, let's say, the people of the Anti-Corruption Agency didn't want to participate in writing this law. If there was an alarmer in that agency, maybe someone would tell us how they bought the building. You know that a big affair is about that, right out of those who are constantly giving us the sense of how to fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13952	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13953	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the Ministry and the High Council of the judiciary, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are today ahead of us in this united debate of the Code on the Protection of Alerters, a law that will join a group of European countries that have special regulations on the protection of alarmers, such as Norway, Romania, France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, while the largest number of European countries lack specific regulations on the protection of alarmers, but their protection provides different legal provisions of labour and criminal law. With us, this area is regulated by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, the Anti-Corruption Protection Regulation, the Law on State Officials, the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter. The National Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018, as well as the accompanying Action Plan, as one of the objectives necessary to achieve is to establish effective and effective protection of alarmers, i.e. persons who report suspected corruption. In addition, as one of the normative activities foreseen by the accompanying Action Plan, it is also envisaged to pass a law on the protection of alarmers. The international agreements that our country has ratified also lead to the obligation to address in a comprehensive manner the issue of protection by a person who reports suspicion of corruption. The alarmer's protection is protected by public interest, since alarming alerters trigger general concerns about the dangers or illegalities of other people, e.g. consumers, the highest public and their employers. The alarmers are usually not directly affected by a certain state of affairs. Accordingly, the alarmer rarely has a personal interest in the outcome of any investigation initiated by his warning and should be seen as a messenger that draws attention to others to do so. The alarmers make a huge contribution to the fight against corruption and must therefore be protected by law. Where there's heavy corruption, there's no attracting foreign capital. The level of corruption tables in a country are seen by representatives of large-scale capital and will not come to a place that beats the voice of heavy corruption, which has been the case with our country in recent years during the rule of the former regime. In the previous term, the government started a decisive and serious fight against corruption, and this was continued in this mandate, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, and as another example of this struggle, it is also this law that is before us today. This law will contribute to more procedures, as it encourages citizens to report irregularities and corruption. The law makes important changes not only in the protection of people who report corruption, but also in the alert procedure, i.e. in the manner of reporting illegality and irregularities. So far, only persons who reported illegalities in the public sector have been asked for protection, and in the future, those from the private sector will be able to do so. Also, earlier protection could only be given to one who was in a permanent working relationship, and now someone who was hired under the contract of work or who works undeclared. I'd like to cite as an important member of the 10th Law that regulates the protection of alarming personality data. The provision of Article 10(1) of the Law established the duty of a person who is authorised to receive the notice and the position of each person’s duty, regardless of his or her capacity, to protect the alerter’s identity data. The law introduces that protection can be given to persons who are in the employment process, public service users, small shareholders. The law provides for the possibility of temporary, immediate protection of alarmers in the form of a provisional measure by the court, e.g. If a person is fired after he has indicated irregularities, he shall refer to the court for a provisional measure and the court shall, by emergency procedure, adopt a measure delaying the legal fact of the act. The worker continues to work normally until a rightful decision is made. It is very important that the process of proving falls on the employer's burden, which means that the alarmer is only enough to bring evidence that he was fired and explain that it was due to the alarm. The process of reporting illegality is also being changed. The alerter was given an alternative for him to choose whether to give his information to someone in his company or to immediately inform the authorised authority, inspection, police, prosecution. As an important member, I would also like to quote a member of the 19th Law, which regulates the public alert procedure. The alert may also alert the public without prior notification of the employer or the authorised authority in the event of a direct threat to life, public health, safety, the environment from the occurrence of damage to large scales, or if there is a direct threat to the destruction of evidence. At this time, the alarmer is obliged to respect the assumption of the defendant's innocence, the right to the protection of personal data, and not to endanger the conduct of the court proceedings. The proposal for this law takes the necessary steps towards establishing a normative capacity framework for a decisive fight against corruption, while at the same time making commitments between national acts, recommendations, and this is recommended by a group of states to fight corruption of the Council of Europe, GRECO. The law will contribute to the change of consciousness that alarmers are not snitches, but people are worthy of respect. Because of the above, and because this law represents an alliance between citizens and the state in the fight against corruption, as the minister said today, the SNS will support this bill in the voting day, and I call on other MPs to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13954	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Maletic, and let Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13955	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, co-workers, respected MPs, stands before us today a law on the protection of alarmers, which is another step forward in the systematic fight against corruption and paints a clear orientation of the current government to confront corruption in the state. So far, this area has been unclear, superficially and not systematically regulated by certain regulations, which has not been an adequate protection for all those citizens who wanted to point to illegality in business. We can freely say that the degree of protection of the alarmers of a state is actually an indicator of how much one state wants to oppose corruption. Today we have listened to those who have been in power for decades in the Republic, who are still in the authority of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, who have spoken of how the Law is not good and what needs to be changed. It should only be noted that these same people sat in power for a decade and did not find it appropriate during their stories of alleged Eurointegration and the desire for economic growth in the country to make such a legal solution. These same people during their reign were exclusively engaged in their chairs, not thinking about the citizens and their protections, who intended to report corruption in some companies. During all this time, the citizens of Vojvodina are asking themselves, "What exactly is wrong with the AP Vojvodina?" We've heard here already from a colleague and a minister on waiting lists at the Kamenica Institute, which is at least scandalous, which cost the lives of the citizens of Vojvodina. It can be concluded from this example that the former regime had no clear intention or desire to regulate the area of protection of alarmers and thus provide adequate protection for people who have pointed to irregularities in business. What is this law that makes? First, a circle of people who can seek protection is expanding, so that the same protection can now be sought by people employed in the private sector. This also applies to people who are in a permanent working relationship, who are engaged through an operating contract, volunteers or those who enter into a working relationship. What is important and what the minister also noted is that the employer must prove in fact that corruption does not exist in what has been reported, as the citizens reported. It is also important to protect the person of the alarmer, i.e. information about the personalities that have shown us some corrupt activities in companies. On the one hand, this law provides protection for citizens who show some of the activities involved in corruption in the economic sector, and on the other hand, we have a guarantee that the state guarantees special protection for such people. In the fight against corruption, in addition to these legal solutions, security citizens who report corruption play a major role. This was not a problem, and indeed there are bright examples of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who in the previous period, during the former regime, although there was no adequate protection, had the strength to report corruption. But the state didn't stand behind them then. Today there is a law before us, which will in a comprehensive and systematic way regulate this area and protect citizens who point to illegal business. Just imagine, citizens, that this law existed in 2008, 2009 or 2010. I'm sure one of the employees in the bodies of the AP Vojvodina, for example. either the Capital Investment Fund or the Institute, as already mentioned, had the strength and pointed to irregularities. First of all, we can list a large number of examples relating to corruption in this area, but what is true and what we can find in different articles and what is not being investigated in these two years is, for example, that in Vojvodina you have a situation that the former regime really loved to hire an entrepreneur when building a traffic station in the entire territory of Vojvodina. The Borovice companies have done business and participated in the construction of many infrastructures on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and in almost all cases have been reported affairs during business. So we have an example of an employee of a toll company, who pointed out the director’s malversions, or that tenders were staged. As soon as he reported, even though he got alarm status, he was going to hell for that man, mobbing at work, and everything else that was, unfortunately, followed by that. I don't think I should mention that both directors and board members were representatives of the former regime. What it is and what this example points to is that there was actually no systemic solution to protect citizens who intended to point out illegal business. We have another example. For example, in the municipality of Majdanpek, the former president of the municipality found it appropriate to grant solidarity aid to himself and his close associates. In this way, the budget of the municipality is very damaged and I think it really shows how important it was to protect them in a stronger way people who pointed to illegal actions. All these examples were people who had alarm status, but that wasn't enough. It wasn't enough, because, as my colleague pointed out, at the Kamenica Institute that the Agency had concluded that the director was being removed, the province government said it should not be done, it simply ignored that fact, this law would make it impossible. Corruption, unfortunately, has been nurtured in our territories for years, and this is how those who, above all, should have taken care of the citizens, of the development of the economy in the Republic of Serbia, have impoverished society as a whole. This law will allow a direct increase in the investment climate in the Republic of Serbia, as it will create more favourable conditions for business. We were all witnesses during the former regime that the Serbian economy had collapsed due to corruption affairs. While the former regime, first of all, dealt with the persecution of people who pointed to illegal activities, our economy collapsed. The fight against corruption is the SNS priority, the entire government headed by Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic. By passing this law, Serbia will step up its leadership position in the region when it comes to the area. The passing of this law represents a struggle of government for every citizen, for the employees, and in fact it will also directly protect workers' rights. For all I've mentioned above, in the voting day, I will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13956	Thank you, Miss Maletić. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13957	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us today a set of laws among them, including a law on the protection of alarming officers. I will focus on the law, given that I consider it a historic step and a determination of this government and a competent ministry in the fight against corruption. All of us know that SNS' programming is a constant fight against corruption and, of course, zero tolerance to corruption. This law certainly gives rise to the definition of a complete government, but also to what is the SNS programme orientation. Since my colleagues have said a lot about the alarming law, I will focus on several basic points, or I will focus on what this law is important for, and with more aspects: from the aspect of the state, from the point of view of staff in institutions, from the point of view of citizens, from the aspect of establishing new values rules and new values. From the point of view of the state, this law is also very important, because further poverty is being safeguarded by our country's continued budget poverty. We also know that corruption, as a cancer, destroys the tissue of every country, or destroys the economy above all. Since the RS budget is certainly one and what a significant anti-corruption law, and how a significant law from the aspect of the preservation of funds in the budget and from the aspect of the reduction is, in fact, the scale of further poverty and economic collapse of society. From the point of view of employees, this law is very important, because it increases awareness among those who work so that they can be discovered in their corrupt operations. From the point of view of citizens, this law is also very important, because this law actually restores confidence in the democratic institutions of society, and the aim of this government and the aim of the SNS is certainly that there are democratic institutions in the country of Serbia that are safe and responsible for doing their job. Also, what I would especially like to point out, except for the anti-corruption and valuable character of this law. Namely, this law sends a clear message that being honest and responsible, being disciplined in the performance of its work obligations and tasks, is certainly not a flaw, on the contrary, it is a virtue. This is also very important for young generations, because it is too clear to all of us that in the past 10 years and perhaps even more, the idol of one part of the youth were those who, through various corrupt activities and in an easy way, came into great wealth. What I want to point out, and as regards the protection of the law on this law, namely the protection of alarmers, is, above all, the procedure relating to the adoption of a provisional measure, both before the court proceedings, both during the court proceedings and after the court proceedings have been brought to an end, until the decision becomes judicial. Why is the adoption of a temporary measure important? Because the adoption of a temporary measure achieves the current legal protection of alarmers, i.e. persons who report suspicion of corruption. In addition to this procedure for the adoption of a provisional measure which, of course, provides that the provisional measure is to be adopted within eight days of the date of receipt of an application for the implementation of the provisional measure, it is important to note that this provisional measure may also be initiated by the court under official duty. In addition to the provisional measure, I would also like to point out the reverse burden of proof, i.e. the principle of reverse burden of proof, i.e. the principle which implies that the alerter can state the reasons why a harmful action has been proposed to him, and it is up to the employer to prove that there is no causal relationship between harmful actions and alarms. Also, as one of the very important principles, it is the principle of confidentiality, i.e. the obligation of the authorities to act on anonymous reports. I also find this very important, because, of course, it doesn't mean that, maybe it means that everyone can report everything and everything, but here we have to trust those people who carry out the accuracy of the anonymous application, so we don't doubt that those anonymous reports that, for various reasons, will not be established, or that they have no basis for suspicion of corruption, will not be handled. Also, what I want to point out, and as foreseen by the new law, is the training of a judge who will deal with these alarming procedures. This training is also important, it is an additional training on the acquisition of new knowledge, the acquisition of new skills, but also the exchange of experience with those people at international level who have their experience in implementing this law, have these experiences and knowledge of these people and how they can use the judges in charge of these cases. It is also very important, apart from the judge's training, that the campaign will also take place, that citizens will be informed through the campaign of what it means to be alarmed and how the alarm can be reported in the first place. A campaign under this law and how significant it is from the aspect of obtaining timely and timely information as far as citizens are concerned. This law is a law against corruption, a law against fraud and a law against bad administration. These are the reasons why the SNS in the voting day will give full support to this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13958	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Biljana Ilic Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13959	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, honourable fellow Members, the establishment and adoption of a legal regulation for sanctioning all kinds of forms of corruption is one of our country's strategically important objectives. In this respect, the adoption of the alert law is an important condition for the implementation of the national Anti-Corruption Strategy, which is being implemented by the government. For the sustainability of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, greater co-operation and involvement not only of public entities are needed, but especially of individuals who are besides the state also the biggest victims of corruption. In the short term, due to the inability to complete some current business or current interest, and in the long run because corruption is spreading through geometric progression, until the final collapse of a complete blockade of a state in which nothing works beyond corrupt flows anymore. Many examples are that citizens simply don't want to live in one such state anymore. Among others, it remains an absolute and growing support for the leading SNS, whose programming goal of zero tolerance in corruption, has received unprecedented support so far. Of course, there is also the obligation of the ruling majority to accomplish this projected task through and above all, a good legal mechanism that is certainly a proposal for this law. Such plebiscite support for the referendum proportions, I would say, also obliges the opposition MPs. It is absolutely certain that the citizens they represent are equally victims of corruption and that they are also to break these chains. Citizens in this context are the best ally of the state. They are the ones who witness in their daily daily a number of corrupt activities, and as such are the most called upon to detect corruption and point to it. Therefore, the reaction of the competent authorities to the alert must be extremely responsible. Otherwise, the citizens will feel betrayed. Like work and a better standard, most of our citizens simply cry out for a just society in which they must participate, but the state and its legal system have an obligation to protect them when security citizens react to corruption. I know that in many and many segments of our society, things have gone too far, so it's gonna take a lot of water to make sure that the state is seriously counting on them, instead of still thinking that crows don't take their eyes out, so it's all for nothing. Therefore, when this law is passed, it must be brought to life and that citizens through obvious examples make sure that corruption simply does not pay off and that it will be sanctioned fiercely, resolutely and unselectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13960	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic, and let the MP Boban Birmancevic be prepared, as the last registered speaker. Here you go, Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13961	Dear President, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I will only say a few sentences on the Consumer Protection Act. Let me begin by saying that the greatest benefit from this law will be the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia, that is, the judicial system of our country. This law has its foothold in the first row in the exposé of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, submitted to us here, the MPs, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in April 2014. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, you and the citizens of Serbia, this was then, and also today, one of the most important, best and most concrete exposés of all 72 exposés since 1805, from the time of Prote Mateja Nenadovic until today. I will not, as my colleagues from the opposition benches, quote not to point out the side. On the 3rd side of this exposé, the government will fight, quote, against corruption and organised crime, will adopt the Public Procurement Act, and in addition to this law we will adopt other systemic measures necessary to combat corruption. It's a finished quote. That's what Mr. Alexander Vukic said in the exposé he presented here at the National Assembly. Dear ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Public Procurement Act has been passed. These other measures, in addition to those already passed, are also this law on the protection of alarmers. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, so does the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by our Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, so does the SNS, written -- done. This is one of the vital laws in the fight against corruption, and it is good that this law was found today on the benches of MPs here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What's an alarmer or a blower in a whistle, I've been asked by citizens in the city of Belgrade today? You've seen different names in the MPs here today. The Croats call him a whistler or a pirate in a whistle or a pirate, and the Serbs call him an alarmer or a blower in a whistle. They asked me who this man is. It is an extremely brave individual who has high moral reasons to decide to risk his personal career publicly, i.e. He openly spoke of the illegal, and not only illegal, but also the immoral acts of a superior individual in his collective. In developed countries, this service has been established before. In the United States, there is a special institution dealing with the protection of individuals characterized by such civil courage. In the national laws of some countries, the alerter is obliged to act in good faith, i.e. that the suspicion of corruption is reported with sincere intent. I will not explain what it is, because Mr. Selakovic explained it better today than my smallness. Let me say that in the Republic of Serbia, the reporting of corruption is in good faith established by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and the Anti-Corruption Regulation on the protection of persons who report suspected corruption. Mr. Minister has just explained today that this has not been accepted in Europe either, which are the bad side of this agency and this regulation and that the proposal for both European authorities and our possible accomplices is to pass this law that is today on the benches before us. The essence of this law is to enable better protection of workers, that is what is important, which reports corruption and not only that, but also prevents any kind of retribution, chicanning and mobbing employer to the worker, and we have witnessed for the past 20 years that this is a daily phenomenon. What matters for this law is that it applies not only to the public sector, but also to private businesses. What's still very important is that the employer is the one who proves that corruption does not exist. Speaking of corruption, ladies and gentlemen, we here today from opposition MPs often heard objections to the law, but if we had a law on the protection of alarmers, we wouldn't be arrested by former ministers in the former government and former directors. Just to remind you for the sake of Serbian citizens, Minister Sasa Dragin may not have been processed, Minister Oliver Dulic, Minister Bubalo, Minister Matic, Director Miskovic, Director of Agrobanke, Director of Development Bank, Mr. Kosmajac, who was released for 20 years to do what he did from the pockets of Serbian citizens, Mr. Percevic etc. I could pick it up, if you want, by tomorrow. Today, an honourable MP, a respected academic congratulation, Mr Pavicevic today has voiced his conviction that the Dean of the Faculty of FON has been attacked. Of course we do, too. Not only are we judging, we're going to prosecute. But it is strange that academic honesty has neither mentioned nor condemned the attack on the Dean of the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics in Kosovo Mitrovica, Mr. Kicevic. It is very interesting and strange that he did not say a word in this congregation when Alexander Vukic's brother was attacked. But, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if there had been a law on alarmers, some deans today at universities would not have spoken, I quote - the law, it's me. We wouldn't be masters of death to both students and professors. Dear citizens of Serbia, I cannot believe that the MP man is sitting here in the National Assembly, the former prime minister, the former interior minister today is talking about corruption here in the National Assembly, and he himself is known to have kalemished the vine on grass, and illegally took 500,000 euros in subsidies. I can't believe it. Mr Selakovic, Mr. Minister, we are giving you full support, to you personally and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to continue to break together with us and the local authorities and citizens of the Republic of Serbia corruption and crime, because it destroys our country, and we, Mr. Minister, are neither guilty nor in debt. Finally, I am glad that the Republic of Serbia, which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are going to get these days, I hope on Thursday, one of the most comprehensive and best laws on the protection of alarmers in the region and beyond in Europe, which is another in a series of evidence that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is taking a full step in the realisation of fundamental reforms in all segments of our society. This will contribute, believe me, to a better life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our children in the coming period. Gentlemen, I call on you from the opposition on that behalf, especially from the strongest opposition party, to vote in favour of this law, because you will at least contribute a little to the modernisation of Serbia, for which it favours not only, but also to the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by its President, Aleksandr Vukic and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13962	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13963	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens, the National Strategy of 2013 which planned to pass the law by 2018 was also envisaged by a number of reform laws, one of these was the announcement of the Law on Bundestiners and here already in 2014, as promised. The law is under consideration in this House. What is really a fact is that it is one reform law, first of all bearing in mind that it is the first parliament to discuss this law. This Parliament whose members we are certainly and has the honour to pass a law that will certainly make a major improvement in the fight against corruption. It's something that can't challenge either the opposition or anyone who doesn't want to talk real about this law. Simply put, this law represents a kind of contract between citizens and the state. In the next period, it will strengthen that bond. The alarms will no longer be marked as some negative factors. On the contrary, alerts will become business controllers for both public and private companies. If a positive climate is created, and this very law brings this positive climate and provides conditions for citizens to try to protect themselves from irregularities by their actions, from dishonesty. This member who defines the alarmer fee is very clear – there is no cash compensation. The only real compensation is justice, and that's what citizens need. It is this member who best defines both the way and the purpose and the goal that will achieve both this law and a series of reform laws passed by this government and which are passing through this parliament. By strengthening the rights of the alarmer, it certainly represents strengthening the rule of law itself. In the next period if this law gives results that are expected, we will certainly have a number of positive effects. What is also important to say is that there are no new costs in the Republic of Serbia's budget to implement this law. A series of positive effects is large and just a few discovered in the future, if there are several discovered corruptions it will be the very first indicator that this law has just had the right application and that it has achieved its goal. Are the opposition concerned about the adoption of this law? They seem to be, and they have no reason to. What is very important and applies to this law as well as to all other laws passed by this Government, which is that justice is certainly slow but accessible. It is also this law that defines in its member that everything that has been wrong and what has been corrupt and what has been harmful to the citizens and to the state is possible to report within one to ten years. So it really won't get old with anything that wasn't good for the citizens and that wasn't good for this country. To end what I have to say, because there's no need to repeat it, the speakers before me spoke aphidically about this law and he deserves it. In the voting day, I expect the opposition to not only indicate some serious reason, and today they did not, to support this law and thus make it clear to all citizens that this government is doing something that is good not only for the opposition, for the position, not just for today, but rather for the laws that are very important for all citizens in the coming period and in the days to come. Once again, I would like to commend this law, to commend a set of these laws that primarily put zero tolerance against corruption in the first place. We will continue safely in the next period of laws that will first and foremost prevent the abuses that have been too many and that have led us to this state. This law and all others that are brought here prevents injustice and protects citizens and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13964	Thank you, Dr. Birmanchevic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if the words of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13965	Thank you, Your Honor. In this little time that I have left, I would just like to look back on some of the things that the minister and fellow MPs have said about, above all, the Code on the Protection of the Alertors have said. We have heard more than once that this law has received a positive assessment from the European Commission, and I have no doubt that this is the case. There are different models, there were some other models of this law and these protections that weren't included in this model of the law, and we were talking about maybe these models are better. But time will first of all show, and above all, it is the most important practice of how this law will be implemented. What was very indicative of me and the minister gave me, it seems to me, on my point, that I ignored that the courts were the largest and most significant institution in the Republic of Serbia. That's the case, that's the way it's supposed to be. It is in each report that the European Commission finds that Serbia's judiciary is not independent. It is the second item of the agenda and the fact that we have not received any response from the President of the Supreme Council to the choice of judges, the president of the courts in Leban and Panchev, who we have drawn attention to as controversial, that we have not received any response, says in favour of the fact that the judiciary in Serbia is unfortunately not independent, and this calls into question the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13966	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Aleksandar Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13967	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I want to thank Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic for explaining in a comprehensive way today this law and how important it is for our country. I am convinced that the opposition will also vote for this law for a simple reason because if they want good to Serbia, because if they want good to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I see no reason not to support this law. I can correct mistakes at least in this legislative sense, in the sense that they show their intention to support such a law. If they have not already done so in practice and have supported corruption in every way possible, they have not fought it and have hardly done anything to reduce it. As we can see, the opposition's representative said, and he came out of the O.R. immediately, because he obviously doesn't care that this session is over and that this matter is discussed in a serious way. I will just repeat that this law is important for the simple reason that every citizen in our country, every employee, every volunteer, every man who is just about to get a job will have the right to report corruption in some public enterprise, almost in all public enterprises, both in the private and public sector, if it is seen and that such people will be processed in the future. The Serbian Progressive Party continues to fight corruption. The Serbian Progressive Party wants the fight to win institutional conditions, in accordance with the law, in accordance with the constitution. We will not stand down from this fight, and the country and the system, even when the SNS leaves power, will leave it neat, modern and above all fair and honest. Thank you again, Minister, and it was really nice to hear these arguments you made today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13968	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. The word has been given by the authorial representative Tomic Miroljub. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13969	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I have today found myself in this House of the National Assembly as a representative of the Supreme Council of the judiciary to present and explain the proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary in view of a united debate on several points of the agenda. Therefore, regarding the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Courts in the courts that I have today cited in my presentation and the proposal for a decision relating to the selection of candidates for the judicial office, and those who are first elected to this responsible and significant function. Except for a few issues relating to the choice of candidates, i.e. a proposal to elect candidates in Leban, i.e. there were no other issues in Panchev. When it comes to candidates who are proposed in these two places, i.e. those two courts, I can say that, in these cases, the High Council, as well as all others, has led to one comprehensive examination of the results of the work of the College's candidates, who are only one of the parameters related to the final decision-making of the proposal for a choice of such a significant function, the length of the internship, the quality of the work so far and that, in the context of all these facts, the High Judicial Council has made this proposal for a choice and a proposal for a decision on election for the president's office, managing the desire to elect the most qualified candidates. Sam, I say a few of these issues raised about the proposed candidates for these two places, were not more of a discussion about the VSS proposal, which I do not see as a non-interest of the MPs for this area, but as a fact that there were no specific questions, which in some way also cheers me, given that there were no major objections, given that I was also a member of the committee who had talked to hundreds of candidates who had submitted applications to participate in these competitions and as a member of the VSS, aware of how much we were really in this institution, this body, we were trying to propose the highest quality candidates, in order to speed up the work of the judiciary, make the judiciary in the coming period more efficient, the work of judges more transparent, more professional, but also more responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13970	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. The word has a minister of justice, Mr Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13971	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know what the point is when you say something, and then you leave the room and don't even listen to the answer until the end. The public does, as the public follows this session, the truth is that there were different models, i.e. different texts of the draft law. Eminent European institutions, the Council of Europe and the European Commission have assessed the bill, while it was still in the shape of the bill as the best. That is why we have come with him as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and have come before you the Messengers of the people. Of course, the practice will show what kind of law is, and that is exactly what the European Commission has drawn our attention to, that we should invest in the application of this law, the maximum of our efforts, if we really want it to succeed, and that is what we sincerely want. Are the courts independent or dependent on someone? The constitution defined that they were independent. The European Commission is not paying attention to the lack of judicial independence, but rather to the lack of the choice process of judges and says the National Assembly should not participate in this. I will say just one more general but important assessment, at the end of this debate in principle – we, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, had no law on alarming and alarming. This is the first law to be passed with a goal, with the intention that this matter should be well, gradually, qualitatively, efficiently and effectively, which should work, defined. Who is not in favor of this bill is not one to regulate this matter at all. It's better to regulate it one way, even if it's missing than not to regulate it at all. With this bill, if you support him in the Voting Day and if he really becomes the law, the citizens of Serbia get a chance and the state of Serbia gets a chance to fight corruption in a much better way, just as we did then as an opposition party, we of the SNS proposed when we entered power, adopted the Public Procurement Act, a law that we cannot say is no problem in application, but a law thanks to which we have saved hundreds of millions of euros as a state so far. If we had any law on the protection of alarmers in the last decade, decades, and a half, two decades, we would have saved a lot more. By adopting this law, the state of Serbia gets a chance, gets a single section, a segment in the fight against corruption legal redecorates, that as a state sanctions, and citizens who are brave and bold, and enters the fight against corruption in an adequate way, protects. I am convinced that in the day for the vote and after the debate in particular, you will support the draft law on the protection of alarmers, a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia for public prosecutors in the appeals public prosecutors, a bill on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Serbia and BiH on extradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-18-0.u13972	I thank Minister Selakovic. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled and uniform search on the proposals for acts in point. 1-6 of the agenda. Continuing tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. on points of 7-10 of the agenda. Thank you.
