ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u101	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE COURT OF STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT The first session of the First Regular Session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia 01 No 06-2/21-14 April 2014 (The session began at 15.05 hours). The session is chaired by Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Intonation of the anthem. ) Based on official records of the presence of MPs, I find that 135 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 176 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dear People’s MPs, in agreement with Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to adopt acts from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. You have received the resignations of MPs Bojan Pajtic, Aleksandr Vukic, Prof. Miodrag Stojković and Jane Ljubicic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and reports of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation of the case under Article 88(2) has occurred. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determine the termination of its mandate to these MPs. In accordance with Article 88(2), paragraph 2 and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which the Members of Parliament were elected: Bojan Pajtic, Aleksandra Vukic, Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković and Jana Ljubicić were elected on the day of their resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. On the basis of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides for a request for information and explanations, ask if any of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with that member of the Rules of Procedure? (No) As for the absence of MPs, we do not have official records of this. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for legislation in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MPs Gordana Comic and Borislav Stefanovic proposed that the draft law on the termination of the law on the reduction of the net income of public sector persons, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – three abstentions – one, 170 of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National Ambassador Veroljub Arsic proposed that the draft ministry law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2014, be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 166 MPs, against none, abstained none, voted 40 of the 206 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National Ambassador Veroljub Arsic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law amending the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 177 MPs voted against none, abstentioned none, did not vote 30 of the 207 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National Ambassador Katarina Rakic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Ministrys and the Proposal for a Law amending the Government Act (points 1 and 2 of the established agenda). Does MP Katarina Rakic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 175 MPs, against none, abstained none, voted 33 out of the 208 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I put the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote on the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that 179 MPs voted against none, with one abstention, did not vote 29 out of the 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, in general. 1st Proposal for a Law on Ministries 2.Proposal of a Law amending the Law on Government. We're going to work on a set agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint and principled search with proposals for the agenda under points 1 and 2 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that it is in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Parliamentary Progressive Party Group – two hours, 43 minutes and 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group – 30 minutes; the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group – 20 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Socialist Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia – 12 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia – 8 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of New Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Vojvodjan Hungarians – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction, the Democratic Party of Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the SDA Group of the S. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak once, up to five minutes each. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Here you go. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u103	Thank you. Given that two points of today's agenda have been combined into a single debate, and given the few times that few oppositions are at their disposal today in parliament, I would ask you to make a statement on the extension of the time of debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure may be doubled the time of debate and I propose that MPs be made known. I call on them to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u104	I'm voting on a proposal from the MPs. Please state his proposal to extend the time of the debate to a total of 10 hours. I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units and join the vote. I declare the vote closed: for -23 MPs, against none, abstentioned none, 186 of the 209 MPs present in total voted. I find the proposal hasn't been adopted. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the proposal for a law on ministries and a bill amending the Law on Government. Does the promoter, MP Veroljub Arsic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic, Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the aim of passing this law is, the Law on the Ministry, that is, to amend the Law on Government, to give the Republic of Serbia, in the coming period, a government that will be effective, as rational as possible. I can say that in the past period until 2012, we had various laws on government, the law on ministries and what is most strange in the whole story, as if they weren't governments that should work in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but those laws were written and passed in the National Assembly for the purpose of achieving someone's political ambition or desire by being a minister in some government, in some particular ministry. We have had situations in various reconstructions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we have ministries that intertwine in their jurisdiction, where often responsibility is transferred from one ministry to another, because the Law on the Ministry simply could not be absolutely functional and that the government can function in that full capacity exclusively in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The latest amendments and additions to the Government Act, the Ministry Act, have improved the situation somewhat but given the complex economic and economic situation in the Republic of Serbia, a complex system of state administration, even in spite of the well-willed members of the government, have certainly affected certain problems and problems as well. I think that because of the economic situation in which Serbia is located, those who deal with politics should stop, deal with their ambitions and those who want to enter the government of the Republic of Serbia, enter with only one goal, get Serbia out of the economic crisis it is in. That is why serious structural reforms are needed and one of the objectives of this law is to create preconditions for the government of the Republic of Serbia and its ministries and for serious, as quickly as possible, and structural reforms to be implemented. In the draft law on ministries, only 16 ministries are provided for, and these are the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Mines and Energy, Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Culture and Information. I think this next government, if this law is passed, will be the smallest in Serbia's recent parliamentary history. Now, I would like to do some of the tasks and expectations of the citizens of what we expect of these ministries and of that government. When it comes to the first ministry, in this case, the Ministry of Finance, I think that the current tax policy that has been implemented, has burdened enough both the economy and the citizens with the tax policy and that simply, by introducing new taxes, I do not mean the public sector financed from the budget or the public sector financed from its own income, thanks to its monopoly position on the market given to them by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, cannot be taxed anymore, i.e. the ordinary economy that generates income, simply and under this tax pressure, can hardly put an end to the end. The finance ministry will have to draw up a serious strategy in the coming period and make sure in the next period that those measures it intends to take, create savings in the Republic of Serbia's budget, disburse as much of the real sector as possible, save as much in the public sector as possible and make sure that the Republic of Serbia does not drive it into recession. When you start with the cuts that various international organisations suggest, then you risk, instead of making savings, suffocating that part of the real sector and thus increasing the problems you're in. It will certainly be one of the most important jobs of the Ministry of Finance. However, in the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, foreign exchange is a foreign currency inspectorate, and there will also have to be serious reforms, and even new laws are being proposed in order to prevent the unwarranted export of foreign currency from the Republic of Serbia and to create various financial moments that will allow the speculative sector to generate extra income and to harm both the states and all its citizens. Of course, the Ministry of Finance and the credit-money system and the banking system that must be in co-operation with the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia are under control and in terms of their legitimate business and compliance with international regulations. There was more speculation by means of public information on how much foreign currency was taken out of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I can only remind you that money, especially foreign exchange, goods as well as any other, that we had a situation that one good part of the financial sector made on extra interest that existed, that it had extra profits and foreign exchange differences for loans given with the foreign exchange clause and that at one point there was extra money on the market that could no longer be placed, under the conditions that it had been placed in earlier periods. Instead of purely economic logic, those who operate on the financial market are now engaged and now because of the increase in the amount of interest and the possibility and faster development of the economy and the higher standard of living, they are engaged in poorer foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia, bringing foreign currency from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and thus maintaining a low supply of money on the credit and financial markets. The previous government had success in the fight, it maintained a stable dinar course, there was a reduction in the reference interest rate and there was an increase in opportunities for the development of the Republic of Serbia, but that is not enough. It will certainly have to be the competent finance ministry in co-operation with the National Bank that problem is even more effective to address. Also, the Ministry of Finance is in charge of the customs control system, and unfortunately there we have had the situation that individual monopolies who were on the market had the privilege of customs crossing incredibly quickly, and that it often happened that if someone wanted to import re-promaterials for their own production and that this product that was made in the territory of the Republic of Serbia with our workers, with our machines, with our smartness and being exported outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, would be irrevocably maintained and the goods and needed documents from its repromation and unnecessary costs would be incurred so that someone who does not have the unnecessary costs would be more competitive on the market than it, so that one serious reform, when it comes to the customs control system, would be set up. Whether everything that has been imported into the territory of the Republic of Serbia is really and marked in accordance with the laws will also have to be taken into account more by the Ministry of Finance, because a customs system that has a protective role not only of unfair competition, but also of protection from the gray zone and the gray market must be fully achieved through this body, as much as it is in those opportunities and in those competences it has. When it comes to the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Economy will finally have to establish a strategy for the development of the economy as a government body. We have a feeling that in the past tens of years, perhaps even several years, our economy has not been working on the principle of what the priorities of the economy are, but in a chaotic state that has resulted in a reduction in the number of employees, i.e. an increase in unemployment by 2012, when we have 27% of the unemployed, which has also led to a decline in gross products in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and a reduction in economic activity. Certainly, the reasons were one chaotic privatisation, but certainly those measures that the governments had at the time and which were stimulating to the economy were not directed or were not enough to develop the economy and see what kind of results we have today. So, one serious strategy is also needed to determine what these are incentives for development and what it is to structurally adapt the economy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps one of the most interesting ministries is the Ministry of Agriculture. I can tell you that our agricultural situation isn't the brightest for many reasons. One reason is that the agricultural production itself for an individual agricultural producer is incredibly expensive, that our industry that monitors agriculture has been halved. First of all, I think of the industry that dealt with and provided plant protection, plant nutrition, and that it certainly came to the fact that the re-promatter that is invested in agriculture is now significantly more expensive than it was before. To make things worse, we had various situations, that without any conditions, without any need to abolish customs protection on imports of agricultural products, which also led to our domestic agriculture almost being halved in relation to some periods from 20, 30 years ago. Of course, there is also a problem of the Republic Veterinary Administration, which will also have to be reformed, to prevent gray speculation when it comes to products of animal origin, but that the complete agricultural sector is not abused and under the pressure of various speculators, on which they also lose farmers, and on the loss of the state, and a small number of people and how they profit. I believe that a good part of the responsibility for this is borne by the current Republic Veterinary Administration, and that body must also be seriously reformed. Of course, under the jurisdiction of both the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture are a very interesting body, and this is the Republic Directorate for Stock Reserves. Am I supposed to mention the abuses that were in the stock reserves, the ones that are punishable by law, which is that someone who's been entrusted to him on the market and doesn't return that money to the state or get a new reserve? That's what the law says. However, speculation with stock reserves also had the part that is not punishable, but which will have to be resolved in the next period, which is that the stock reserves have a primary purpose, which is to protect the producers of certain goods and protect the users of certain goods, so that there is no market disturbance. These disturbances were so great that stock reserves rarely, almost never intervened, although market disturbances were in price differences and 40%-50% when it comes to seasonal exchanges of agricultural products. These 40 or 50 % did not belong to agricultural producers, not to consumers, but to speculators who had access to the stock reserves and at a certain point either withdrew them or returned them to the market. There is a need for co-operation and coordination with the Ministry of Trade and with the Ministry of Agriculture. The Republic Water Directorate. We ourselves are now aware of this monster that has reached the citizens of Serbia in the past period when the floods are at stake. It is something in the jurisdiction of local self-government. It is that one part of the funds has also been provided by the Republic Water Directorate and the competent ministries, but the problem is obviously not removed on certain territories, so there is a need to create a serious strategy, provide funds for the protection of blue areas. Of course, when funds are provided to carry out and control the spending of these funds and the effects of the spending of those funds. Another problem arises that is in charge of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is the exploitation I can say of mine wealth. It's often sand, gravel, a shotgun, and often by cancelling agricultural land and not recultivating that agricultural land, although it's the one who exploited it that's bound to do it. There was also no control and they did not initiate any proceedings for damages and for the destruction of agricultural land. We have a situation where water is concerned about the exploitation of gravel, that entire cities are threatened, that complete road infrastructure is threatened, that water supply is threatened because the exploitation of gravel reduces the level of individual rivers and threatens the wells and the foundations of bridges that cross these rivers. Should I mention that Pogorec has such a problem, that the water wells in Pogorevec have been compromised, and that the so far Water Directorates and the Ministry of Agriculture have not responded to the fact that they have seized the right to exploit gravel from that territory? I think the new Government of the Republic of Serbia will also have to deal with the new ministers in the government. Forest management. There's a "Serbishum". There are often national parks. In the winter of 2012, right before the elections, I had a chance to visit part of the Gerdap National Park. I've seen thousands of tons or meters, however you like, of the highest quality buildings in the area, which are left to rot in the woods, and the woods are our natural wealth, so what's been cut down and what's rotted out sold out is why someone doesn't answer for what's been done. I think it will also have to deal with the new Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Ministry of Construction, Traffic and Infrastructure, I can say that this bill finally brings it together. We will no longer have a situation for one minister to lead one corridor, that the other minister leads the second corridor, that no one knows which area is to blame and who should be responsible for both the Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course this is the department's jurisdiction. Soon we expect one law, a bill here in the National Assembly, which is a bill that should finally regulate the obtaining of building permits, means, the new Law on Planning and Construction, because the current legislation that has been made for many years rather than simplifying the obtaining of construction permits, the faster development of the Republic of Serbia, the greater employment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have only created the forest regulations, in that principle – must be missing at least one paper and we can forget that paper if you bring a blue envelope. It will also be one of the ministry's obligations. The Ministry of Mining and Energy, which was separated by the reconstruction of the government in 2011, so I asked the question – how could this work in certain strategically important public enterprises, which are at the same time engaged in mining and electricity production? Under a proposal for the law, public enterprises dealing with the exploitation of the director's mines are proposing a minister in charge of mining operations. When it comes to energy, the director of a public enterprise proposes a competent minister for energy affairs, and when it is both, who proposes? So we had problems with both various rents and environmental protection because the apparent objective of the 2011 law was not to create an effective ministry, but to satisfy the individual political ambitions of some members of the government. The justice ministry will also have to continue the reform of the judiciary that began in 2012, to continue reforming the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and all lower prosecutors, but I would like to at least, when it comes to our criminal legislation, regulate some areas that are a classic fraud in commercial crime. We have a situation now, I think that changes and additions to the Criminal Code can be regulated, someone opens up a particular company, raises a loan or acquires goods, sells for cash, issues a blank note, and then it's invulnerable. So far, the court's policy was that it was hard to prove the guilt that, in the current creation of a debtor-trust relationship, a person wanted that to happen. You bet it was. So, criminal legislation needs to be changed to make legislation that will prevent a kind of fraud like this and that will allow the economy to operate without fear of being deceived, that someone will be damaged, that it will have to shut down the company. That's how we did damage to the state, because he shut down the company and the tax evasion company, but he shut down the company and the regular payer, but because of these, he couldn't do business on the market. The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, of course, has the obligation to make public sector, especially when it comes to state administration, reorganise the state administration and increase its efficiency in the coming period, of course, in line with the adoption of new laws that the government should propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The interior ministry that is responsible for the security of all of us must also increase efficiency, implement police reform, establish a strategy in the development of our police force, and, of course, since we have had situations that are once again threatened by police officers at their workplace, to finally post sanctions in co-operation with the Justice Ministry for assaulting an authorised official. Also, it's something this new government expects. The Ministry of Education and Science, unfortunately, in the previous period, we had a complete devasion of higher education institutions, so it seems that the ministry needs to bring in a new strategy on the development of higher education institutions, to set new standards when it comes to accreditation of higher education institutions, so that we finally have the right experts to know what they say in their diploma, and not to call experts who have acquired a diploma to perform some state function. The Ministry of Labour, of course, is very important, but here's how the 2011 ministry cared about employees, about the development of the economy, about the development of the private sector. We had the Labour Act, which seems to me to have been passed in 2003 or 2004. Imagine that our Ministry of Labour has passed a rule on the application of the Labour Act which is contrary to the Labour Act. Let's say, if one of the owners of a particular company and the company decides to sell it, one of the conditions is that with the new employer in that same company, a working relationship is established, there is no right to increase profits based on past work while he owned the company, even though he regularly paid all the contributions. I'd like to see that secretary of state who gave such an interpretation and framed the minister to sign it. So we expect a new Labour Act that will unequivocally remove this. The Ministry of Culture and Information also has one serious task, and this is to finally bring our Information Law into line with the highest standards, with standards that apply in countries in the environment, and even to be of much more quality than countries in the environment and countries in the EU. We're not the ones who wouldn't know it, and we could do it, but the question is whether it was going to happen in this period or not. We don't need SNS control of the media area. We are not afraid to tell citizens what kind of country they live in and what problems we face and what problems they will have. It is obvious that by adopting earlier laws on information that citizens are having fun and that they do not realize that they are living harder and harder. I think this new information law needs to be resolved, especially when it comes to media funding and media ownership and everything that is related to information. These are suggestions, and I think this is the most important thing in terms of this proposal for a law on ministries. The bill is made up in line with the economic situation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and its only goal is to get as effective and rational a government as possible, which will have to work hard to regulate the country and make the country economic recovery. I call on fellow Members of Parliament to vote on these proposed laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u106	I would like to thank the motionary. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u107	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, my presentation on the draft law on ministries and the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, and as an authorised representative of the DS, I will split it into two parts. The first part dedicated to remarks, as is the order and assembly custom, of all that the Proposer pointed out, MP Veroljub Arsic, and the second part of our comments and suggestions, which were submitted through amendments in the procedure of the National Assembly, with the desire to fix this proposal for a law on ministries, and to make the amendment and addition of the Law on Government more modern and to the benefit of all. So, I will quote that the problem of the previous Ministry Law was the overlapping of competences. There is no greater pleasure for the opposition, but the content of such exposure as the promoter had. Since in this composition, in one case the advocates of the previous amendments and the addition of the Ministry Act were also presently proposed, we warned the opposition of the overlapping of jurisdiction in two phases. At the Ministry of Mining and Energy, at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection and the Ministry of Agriculture, where competences intertwined during the two years of validity of the two ministry laws. It is good and it is a great pleasure to accept that in this proposal the law deletes, abolishes, abandons the overlap of jurisdiction. If it were true, we'd all be very happy, but in the second part, I'll show that it's far from the fact that this law is excluded from intertwining jurisdiction. The proposer also said this law implies serious structural reforms. I don't doubt the good intentions of the promoter, not for now, not in all the details known, the government's work programme, which we will hear in a few days, but in this bill that is before us on the ministries and on the government there are no structural reforms. It's not nice to talk about the law and structural reforms that don't exist. To illustrate that I am right that there are really no structural reforms in this bill, then it would be clearly defined who will be in government, which is how in the ministries and who will deal with the restructuring and reform of public enterprises, because public enterprises are in the power of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not individual ministries. The announcement of serious structural reforms would be either in one proposal or in another, and they are not. Since we have known here long enough how the ministries and competences of public enterprises operate, then we know that the ministry gives consent to its "public enterprise", systematisation, plan, etc., but that the government is making a decision. There's no sign of anything in any law that's going to change that. Furthermore, the proponent says, and speaking of the proposal for a law on ministries and changes and additions to the government, that tax policy has burdened the real sector. The law does not deal with tax policy, but deals with the finance ministry's competences. I have no objection to the motion through the presentation of the bill talking about what he knows is the government's programme, but then he can't have any objection to someone from the opposition telling him that we'll talk about it when the government submits its programme, and now we're talking about the jurisdiction of the finance ministry. In the jurisdiction of the finance ministry, the promoter spoke of improving the work of the Foreign Affairs Inspectorate, which is not seen in the Ministry Act. There are no changes to the previous law, but they are talking about the unwarranted delivery of foreign exchange funds to the speculative sector which thereby generates extra income and that the finance ministry is building a credit-money system, I quote. You can compare this later with the stenogram, which is what the National Bank of Serbia is responsible for. The finance ministry runs a country's fiscal policy and good economy, the country's good atmosphere is seen in agreement with fiscal and monetary policy. Just because I'm in opposition doesn't absolutely mean I don't want a good, stable, smart monetary policy and a well-measured fiscal policy from the bottom of my heart. I am in opposition to deny the right to be subject to the Law on the Ministry of Explanations which, with no part of the contents of the Ministry Act, has anything to do with it. Finally, the promoter spoke about the smallest number of ministries, which is true, for one is less than some previous governments, and this was one of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. When it comes to the fact that there is no overlapping of competences, it has been said that the Ministry of Agriculture is now competent to prevent the exploitation of mineral wealth, such as sand, gravel and cheddar, and to protect water wells. Except I believe it's a lapsus, because there's a water catch, not a water source, but it can and can be, it's not a problem, it's in direct contrast to what the biller said at the beginning, and that's that there's no overlapping jurisdiction. All in all, the Ministry Act is never particularly interesting to the MPs, since more or less routinely transfer powers from one ministry to another, except when one of us MPs, regardless of whether we are members of the ruling coalition or opposition, has a concrete proposal concerning the organisation of the work of the ministries, as we, as a parliamentary group, have for this draft law on ministries and the Government Act. This is the second part of my address, which I hope will deserve your attention. We have proposed amendments to establish the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Spatial Planning. In addition to most of the interpretations of this amendment and the subsequent amendments to it will be used in the debate in particular, the main reason we should propose this is that the current Ministry of Agriculture Act provides the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. It is about 75% of the total negotiations we have with the EU. It is a partial experience of Croatia, and it is a bad experience. What does 75% of the negotiations need to be conducted by the negotiating teams of one ministry mean? It means that Chapter 27, which concerns environmental protection, is already on schedule in June of this year, opening, or screening of Chapter 27. There's a scining behind that for agriculture. When you conduct negotiations in which Serbia is located with screening, opening and with two intergovernmental conferences, then you discuss what will happen in agriculture and in protecting the environment in Serbia for the next 10, 20, 30 years. You are discussing what it will look like, how much it will cost, who will pay for it, and how you will set deadlines for your own country to make it easier for everyone, to send out what the task is in the negotiation of all, especially those who are already members of the European Union. It's a process that was not clear to the citizens until the end and nobody cared to explain it. I consider it crucial, because the negotiations on agriculture and environmental protection are about most of the negotiations, the biggest amount of money, and it is about the greatest responsibility of all of us who want Serbia to get the most favourable deadlines from the transition, because that is what this is about. If you want to talk about agriculture and if you want your agriculture to be the same as the agriculture of developed or medium-developed European Union countries, you need to know what you are negotiating with. How are you going to ensure that the longer transition deadline for the conditions in the negotiations after the screening is met? To put all this into one ministry on, essentially one negotiator from the ministry and the group that within the ministry should give him support is irrational, poor at the overall work of the government and does not give sufficient assurance that the negotiation process will take place in a sufficiently high quality and transparent manner. This is the only reason why we propose a special ministry of environmental protection, natural resources and spatial planning. When we talk about other aspects of this law in terms of content, another amendment that I have submitted to both some of my fellow Members and colleagues from the parliamentary group concerns the decision to abolish the Directorate for Gender Equality. That's very interesting. I am sorry that because of my organisational observations and the shortness of time, I failed with my colleagues I spoke with, counterpart Nada Lazic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branko Karavidić, Stefan Miladinović and other colleagues and colleagues I spoke with to show that we are demanding to return to the Ministry of Gender Equality. Not because the signature on that amendment would oblige them to vote, but because of the message that it is necessary for you to understand what human rights are, what women's human rights are and what the jobs are in the sector of improving gender equality, where gender is a double word. It contains both the word of women and the word of men. We need to talk about this in order to counter this ease that we will end the Agency for Gender Equality, which is based on regulations and for all time there are results that are positive and that have made a promotion in this area. It's just one of the little things at first sight that's obvious from this bill. What's our hope is that we'll understand at least two things about law-making and the criticism of the opposition. The first thing is that whoever suggests it and whoever thinks it can hide the shortcomings of the proposal by taking away the right of the opposition in general to expose it because it was once power, I'm telling myself everything. If I were anyone from the ruling coalition I'd never perform like that, which doesn't mean it won't be like that, there's no help. Our joint job is that anyone from the ruling coalition better than it is to present their proposals, and the job of the opposition is to at least a little worse than it is to criticise the shortcomings of the proposal, with all the common goal of making the best possible proposal through dialogue on what is the jurisdiction of each of the ministries given in the draft law on ministries. As far as the government law is concerned, he only has one member to establish possibilities, the government's will to establish. In this case, the Council and our amendment say that the Government by special decision on the content it makes is that membership in that council should be 30% less than the gender represented. With a lot of good reasons, we have submitted that amendment and we hope to support everyone. For that amendment, we did not ask for support as I asked my colleagues from all MPs for the idea that we should not abolish the Directorate for Gender Equality, because that is, apart from investigating how personal the tone is, it is in general childish and unworthy of one content of the law. It doesn't have any effect, and it can be a lot of damage. In the case of the Government Act, our proposal is strategic. If it's about the advice you want the Prime Minister to have an advisory body for economic development and if it's about being without that attitude, being 30% less represented sex, we won't see great, valuable women with great knowledge, education, experience, skills and will to invest their female skills in this advice. Then the least that would be good for anything is that the amendment would be accepted to amend and supplement the Government Act. However, I am grateful to the promoter for thinking that the opposition would not listen to him very carefully. We listened very carefully, and if there was a content that someone on behalf of the promoter would defend the bill, and if the opposition said, well, it's great that it's like this, then it was the content that we listened to, who went from removing the overlaps of jurisdiction until it was proof that the exploitation of another wealth in the Ministry of Agriculture on Sand, Pebble and Shoder is part of the Ministry Act. It does not represent, but the fact that we are exchanging remarks with each other on the content of our presentations, neither us from the opposition, nor you from the ruling majority should prevent us from focusing on what the content and the Law on Ministries and the Law on Government is, and what will be a better solution than what is currently in the proposal. Let me finish with an anecdote. What it looks like when we don't want a dialogue in the Assembly. In the previous session, I was a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, which for the ministers who submitted the reports also had a minister of energy and environmental protection and a minister of mining. There are stenograms from the board's session. The anecdote is next. I asked the minister about the stage in which there is a feasibility study on the channel announced in 2012 as a channel from Belgrade to Thessaloniki. The minister told me it was over. Since I am someone who insists on detail, I asked – which stage of the feasibility study is over, to which the minister replied that it was all over. And I don't blame the minister for saying that on the board, I understand, it brought a man, and I don't think that's anything but an anecdote, but a great anecdote that needs to remind us all that we're minding the weight of publicly spoken words. She sometimes jumps out and then those words rule us and not us in words. That is why this anecdote is in favour of having everyone think carefully before we forget the weight of public words each of us has, regardless of whether it defends a bill's proposal, whether it defends the content of a ministry's jurisdiction or by comments, remarks, and proposals challenge it. Thank you for the attention you've listened to me and I hope our contribution will be to make some of the things in both laws change for the better.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u108	Thank you. In order to speed up the dialogue required by the opposition's MP, Mrs Gordana Comic, I give my word to Veroljub Arsic as a representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have several times been authorized to propose some law, and as a MP, I have proposed some law. No one can argue that I did not listen carefully to my opposition colleagues and that I did not appreciate their work and the desire to regulate some bill, improve. I also appreciated that every MP wants to put in the bill his own political ideology, his political party's programme, if it was not contrary to the strategy for which the law was passed and it was adopted. What was contrary to the strategy was not adopted. You can't say we're bad MPs who support the Government of the Republic because we don't want to go out for every proposal to meet you. You can't say that. I also listened very carefully to you. The Ministry Act does not contain public enterprises. The unification of the work of public enterprises should be regulated by the Law on Public Enterprises. He regulates the matter, and who is the founder and what is the name of the director and what is the name of the management of the public enterprise, etc. So it can't be the subject of this law. When you say – a credit-money system, I will read the law - that the ministry, among other things, monitors the application of regulations relating to the transport of goods and services abroad and performs activities abroad from foreign exchange and foreign credit relations and other foreign exchange inspection tasks, in accordance with the law, the financial relations system with abroad etc., well, among other things says - international agreements on the avoidance of double taxation, customs system, customs tariff, extra-tariff protection measures from the free zone, credit-monetary system. The National Bank controls the country's credit-money system. A credit-Monetary system that is with abroad, to which is tied by the Foreign Inspectorate, is controlled by the Ministry of Finance. It used to be the National Bank. I don't know why that's changed. It's changed. It was placed in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. Does it have its advantages? There is. Does he have his faults? There's that, too. I wasn't able when I proposed this law to assess what was better or worse. Let's see if we can get on with what the results are going to do. So, this refers to the speculative character of credit-monetary with abroad, with the export of money for various advances, to imports of goods and services that never occur, to export goods, and never to bring in foreign currency from exporting that goods, nor to import any other goods. These are all forms of lending, credit-monetary policies, not only through financial institutions, but also by international financial institutions. The finance ministry in co-operation with the National Bank, which is exactly what I said, needs to exercise control. So it's the National Bank that provides services to the Foreign Office. That's how it works. As far as agriculture is concerned, the dynamics are already foreseen by the SAA. We don't have that much to tact. When it comes to mining wealth, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't declare something strategically important, but some individual decides to deal with the exploitation of something, so he has to destroy agricultural land, he has to do a project to re-cultivate agricultural land and end up exploiting to bring it back to its original state, has it worked so far? Did that work? It's not. Is that why the farm inspection is in charge? Yes, it is. When it comes to extracting gravel from the water streams, who's in charge? Who regulates that? Well, the competent Department of Agriculture. We're right. What's going on? That a small group of big money would put it in their pockets. There's a city being ruined. One of the cities that is being destroyed is the Fireman. Only for the protection of water wells has the city spent 300 million dinars so someone can exploit the gravel, and the competent ministry does not protect its own waterway. That's what we're talking about. When it comes to the development of democracy in this National Assembly, there is only one part I can ask fellow MPs who are both old and new vice presidents, which is when counterpart Gordana Comic was vice president of the National Assembly, as its presidents chaired the sessions. If this is the case with the current president, Maja Gojkovic, I will resign and return to being an ordinary MP, which you should have done when a transfer was suspended in the Assembly, when MPs were expelled from the gym, when MPs were expelled from the session, who were not even in the National Assembly building. Don't tell us about it. As for the less represented half of the Council, I don't mind. But what if the Prime Minister decides they're just ladies in that Council, and we're the ones who stopped him from doing it by law? We have no intention of polluting when it comes to gender equality. We of the SNS want our ladies to have a place in society that belongs to them and to exercise their rights, of course, as much as they want and as much as they think they can, and not to force them into something they may not want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u110	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u111	Thank you. That's what I'm talking about. That you have the full right to judge my actions whether I am doing the work of the Vice-President of the Assembly, members of the Council, members of an international delegation or any of the jobs entrusted to me by the President of the Assembly or by the President of the Parliament Group – you have the full right to believe that it sucks. But it has nothing to do with anything. That is a bit of a problem with the contents of this dialogue. Especially has nothing to do with the remarks I made about the content of your exposure. Except for the fact that it doesn't matter, it's not true, since with your voice, which I sincerely thank you for, I am now vice president of the Assembly. I hope that the President of the Assembly in the mandate that is before us will be able to check that I know a member of the law that obliges the contents of the work of the Vice-President of the Assembly and which reads – the Vice-President of the Assembly helps in the work of the President of the Assembly. That's the way it is, and that's how I've been acting in my previous session, and I'm gonna be in this one. Whether or not I'm going to be to you at will so forget that it's not a quality dialogue or an attempt at disqualification and personal disqualification, there's no hope. But monetary policy is run by the National Bank of Serbia. Fiscal policy is run by the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The content you shared with us about what Minister Lazar Krstic was responsible for, so before him Minister Mladjan Dinkic did not. The content of your presentation is that what Minister Glamocic was responsible for was also Minister Goran Knezevic, not to do so. The content of your exposure is that the Director of Customs doesn't work. I'm the nicest thing I've ever tried... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... in my statement to tell you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u112	Please. You've run out of time, and you've called for the good knowledge of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a Ministry Act ahead of us. First of all, I'd like to talk about the subject. The new government, 16 ministries, and I understand first of all, and me and my colleagues from New Serbia, as a first step in achieving what we have spoken and promised Serbian citizens in the pre-election campaign, which is that we will have a small and efficient government and that is, above all, one thing the government will show, to set an example of itself, that a significant reduction of state administration is needed. For this reason, we must first of all commend certain corrections and mergers of the ministries that have been made for the more effective work of the Government. Of course, what makes me particularly happy is the unification of the construction, urban, traffic and now, as it will be called, infrastructures in one ministry, because in 2004, the beginner of this was our president, Velimir Ilic, when it was the Ministry of Capital Investment, who showed significant results in his work until 2008, when it was deformed. What I would also like to underline is that the mining and energy ministries are joined together. I've been head of the municipality for nine years, I've had different experiences working with the ministries, but somehow we haven't all been the happiest work of this Ministry of Mining and Spatial Planning, and I hope that this merger will now lead to one more effective work and significantly better coordination, especially with local self-government, where potentially research or not explore any ore, or noble metals. I would also like to commend the separation of the environment from the Ministry of Energy, because we are all aware of the fact that it is simply a paradoxical thing for energy, as a sector that has a significant impact on environmental pollution, to be in one ministry with someone who needs to protect that environment. What I would particularly underline is that we would be even happier to think eventually, but there will be time for one day for environmental protection to be in the health ministry sector. Well, for starters and agriculture, maybe it's okay, because the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management is such a wide spectrum. We are all witnesses, now that these basic disasters, floods, and all these accidents have come to us, that we needed a significant engagement and this ministry. What we should all especially point out is the more efficient work of the Emergency Sector. We are witnessing, when we mention the Ministry of Agriculture, that after this flood and flood accident, which has happened to us these days in Serbia, we must not look into the sky and wait for what will happen to us, for example. Anti-urban protection, which is of great importance for the offerings of our farmers and, above all, fruit farmers in Serbia, and we are witnessing that today we simply have no missiles at the anti-urban stations. Also, what I would like to praise is that 16 ministries and a more effective government should be one recipe that should be applied and when some of the next calls of Parliament come, that already once in Serbia, the number of ministries have been raised and that there is no need for each new one to convene we have a different number of ministries and a constant transfer from one ministry to another ministry and archives and everything else that makes the accompanying documentation, and then it always takes time for these new ministries to get up. What I would ask all the MPs is that they simply understand and realize that it is necessary to work faster and more efficiently and therefore I would welcome, and on behalf of my colleagues, the formation of a clear and clean Ministry of State and local self-government. We had former ministers, first of all, he's not here right now but we should mention him, Minister Dinkic, who very earnestly invented a ministry that was called - for even regional development, so within that ministry, they could always do different things, such as building roads, to help primarily where his people were in power at the place. That is why it is good for the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Infrastructure to take over the powers of equal regional development, and for the state administration to be a ministry that will effectively resolve the issue primarily of the excessive pre-glacial administration, starting with the government of Serbia, to the last local self-government in Serbia, where it must be clear what is going on with this huge state apparatus that has been piled up all these previous years, to God of 2000 and to this day. Of course, we will support this bill. I propose to and future government, on behalf of and on behalf of my colleagues, I want every happiness, because this is just one beginning. We have great work to do here, and I hope this is just one beginning of building better and better Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u114	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd just like to say a few words and I won't take up much of your time. First of all, what I'd like to remind you of, is how much this session costs and how much it costs to sit in the National Assembly of taxpayers' money, how much it costs to do what we do here, and how much it's gonna cost if we don't do good. To talk about this law that we had an explanation of our colleague, Mr. Arsic, I think that wasting time for the simple reason why it doesn't show enough to be able to talk more, but to promote your political attitudes, belittle the political attitudes of others or something like that. I think it's very important that we all notice one thing together. It looks good that there will be fewer ministries, looks as revolutionary as any type of procedure. Of course, it's only after the flaws or failures are shown, and if they are, and we're flawed and missed, I don't think we all have time together anymore. We have no time for this, nor have we been given mandates for it by the citizens of Serbia. All in all, I have to notice that we don't see from the number of reduced ministries how many of these ministries will be employed, how much will be the cost of these ministries, how many people in them will work or not work, as have been cases so far. We do not see how the formal reduction of the administration by reducing the number of ministries will affect general social savings. We don't see all that, and that's what's most important. By the way, the old saying is good. The most expensive is what he does not do. So if it doesn't work, it'll all be too expensive, no matter how few ministries. If it's done well, let's make it 50, if it makes it possible for people in this country to live better. That's why I urge all of you to consider the state of this country, to think about what we can all do together to make this country live better. What can we all do together to make this assembly, the highest representative home of all citizens of this country, regardless of national, religious and political membership, be the place of responsible words, be the place to discuss how to solve life problems, not to deal with how we continue the election campaign after the election is over? That is why I am asking you, both colleagues from the ruling majority and colleagues from the opposition, to talk about the subject, and the topic here is the Government Act, to do it briefly and efficiently and to start dealing with the solution to the accumulated problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u116	I thank Mr. Chank. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank the previous speaker. He just said some things the SNS is ready for. Before the president of the SNS became Prime Minister, we wanted to talk to everyone about this government, all those who crossed the census and who are in the Assembly. We're not the ones who set the conditions. We as a parliamentary club have 136 MPs, and 158 MPs won the list led by the SNS. We don't need any coalition partners to form a government, but we were willing to talk to everyone and we didn't set the conditions – we want to do this or we want to do that. That's what some others did. That's not our problem. We are all those who wish to be well-intentioned in the government of the Republic of Serbia and no one can object to us that it is not. Now, if someone wants to make their contribution as a party who does not want to participate in the executive government, but appreciates the very quality of the law that we are making, or wants to appreciate exclusively the quality of the government's work without supporting that government, but wants to make its contribution, we will also not oppose it and be angry. We can't force anyone into government or ban him from supporting the government. We have always acted in such a way that all well-intentioned proposals, suggestions, whatever came from the ranks of MPs who do not support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and improved the text of the bill, accepted as something good and what should be found in some bill or, in the end, in some law. So you can't complain to us about these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u118	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nenad Canak, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u119	I didn't want to complain to anyone. I'm just saying the deepest confidence. Don't make me go into some kind of conversation right now -- why you're changing the Government Act now, when you had that chance and last time you did, i.e. in the last term where you were also part of the majority? I don't want to talk about it at all. I am very proud that I do not see in this government the departments of large commissions and the ministry of lack of evidence, which is already excellent and I don't think those ministries should have been before, although there have been. In that sense, I thank you and I think this discussion should end up in this place and get to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u120	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u121	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, I will try, of course, only to stick to what is on the agenda, and that is this united act and the bill amending the Government Act, as well as the newly proposed Ministry Act. As regards the draft law amending the Government Act, I do not think there is a need for us to enter into some more detailed debate, since it is only a single member's amendment, and this is a Article 28th and its position, which says that the Prime Minister can set up a council on economic development, a council on state authorities and public services and other councils and councils are determined by an act on its establishment. In front of the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia, I see absolutely nothing controversial about the amendment of such a member, except, as far as I know, the Law on Government. But what is even more important is that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are clearly defined and permanent working bodies and occasional working bodies, and occasional working bodies are currently listed advice, according to expert groups, working groups, etc. So, I fully find it appropriate why it went through an amendment just like this to one of the members of that bill. Of course, in this place, as already mentioned and today we are discussing in the principle of these laws, I have a well-intentioned proposal for the Government, when it is established, which is that, immediately after the constitution of accession to the creation, not to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government of Serbia, but to adopt a completely new Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which would specify both permanent working bodies, I mean commissions and committees, and occasional working bodies. Of course, there are many other questions. I hope that such a proposal, since it is well-meaning, will be welcomed and that the government will indeed do something like that. As for the proposal for a law on ministries, I can also say that the Democratic Party of Serbia will support such a proposal for a law on ministries. In this place, I can't look back and not go back to 2000, to say that the government of Dr. Zoran Djindjic had 17 ministries, that Mr. Zivkovic's government had 24 ministries, that Kostunica's government had 17 ministries, that Cvetkovic's government had 24 ministries, I'm not talking about the one without a portfolio, I don't even count on the ministry, that Dacic's government had 18 ministries, where I'm also not talking about ministries without portfolios. I hope that this government will not continue with this practice of giving ministries to someone without a portfolio, in order to satisfy someone's political ambitions. As far as the bill itself is concerned, it is commendable that for the first time, the smallest number of ministries has been proposed so far, which would be numbered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the first place, of course, the Ministry of Finance is listed, and secondly, the Ministry of Economy. Finally, it happened in the country of Serbia, that after several decades of handling one resort, several years of which fell to a spectacular ministry, called the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which was also run by a perfect economic expert, this law separates such things, as well as in every normal and civilized country, since finance and economy must be special resolutions. Of course, we are all witnessing how it was in practice to connect incompatibly. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection is concerned, I will not engage in the very explanations, as far as the responsibilities that enter the circle of these ministries are concerned, especially when I talk about the Law on the Ministry of Agriculture, whose competencies are quite broad. Let's just say, I'm going to look back at something the promoter, Mr. Veroljub Arsic, mentioned. He made quite a critical point according to the work of the Republic of Veteran Administration so far. In this place, of course, I have to agree with him, and I have to agree with him for the following reasons, because in addition to the criticism he has made, I'm going to go over it, and I'm going to bring some more criticism to the work of the Republic Veterinary Administration. If someone was talking about the wind in the last session, then it was the Demochrist Party, and then it was me in front of the Demochrist party. If someone was talking about the wind being a pillar of a society in an extreme instance having to be supported, it was me, and it was just the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia. The Authority of the Veteran, the same republican that Mr Arsic mentioned must be reconstructed, and first must be changed, or if you want to fill in the missing inspector's number, but before the number of missing inspectors has to be filled in, there must be control of the work of those inspectors who are now in such a Republic administration, and for the veterinary system they need to enable further education of them, because that is something that is necessary. You have to pay more attention to what I pointed out in the previous session, and that's the attention of the field vet. Payment to especially field veterinarians must be regular, must not be delayed for three months, as was practice, of course the reference laboratory must finally be completed and that the same reference laboratory should finally start working. Of course, without a strong veterinary administration, there are no quality negotiations with the European Union, and without negotiations with the EU, and without just any steps to advance, when we talk about the Republic Veterinary Authority, I am afraid chapter 12 will become a dead letter on paper. There are also good solutions, at least for me, that's the view of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which the Ministry of Justice, the state administration separates, so now we have two ministries, we have the Ministry of Justice and we have the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. It used to be a joined-up ministry, so we had both justice and state administration and local self-government by that old well-known three-to-one. But those were other opportunities and other political times. What I think is the goal of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, regardless of who it was personified, therefore, no matter who was headed by that ministry, is that it must approach one serious reform of the state administration, because I believe that this is something that is necessary at the moment. With regard to other ministries, in order not to specifically enter into an analysis of their competences, the bill provides for only the powers of the ministries and I do not share the opinion that the responsibilities of the ministries are intertwined, it seems to me that they are quite well and seriously systemised, at least when it comes to 16 ministries, which I will again praise before the Democratic Party of Serbia, because this is a newspaper, is going towards a reduction. In a country that seeks to be serious, which seeks to be responsible, which seeks to successfully continue negotiations with the EU, does not need a government of 24, 25 ministries, does not need a government of 18 ministries, a government of 16 ministries is enough, but a government that will be personified, represented by responsible individuals and, of course, the knowers of its work. Of course, in this place, I would point out that this government, regardless of the draft law amending the Government Act, as well as the proposed ministry law, is waiting for a serious job that will be in the works of some of the proposed ministries. First of all, I mean the Labour Act, first of all, I mean the Law on bankruptcy and privatisation, the Law on civil servants. In this place, I would also like to make a constructive proposal, and I would like the proposer to listen to me, if at all possible. Since the Law on Ministries is now being proposed, and since Article 2 provides for 16 ministries, I will commend it, it is something epochal, for the first time, that one government is numbering 16 ministries, I think it is necessary to approach the amendments and additions of the Law on the National Assembly, I think it is necessary to approach the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. More specifically, not by changing and supplementing but by passing completely new laws, because this is how we come into one situation, to say that you have a special Ministry of Justice, you have a special Ministry of State and local self-government, and yesterday we have established a Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. I think it's one good proposal, but we can't ignore one such fact that every law is in accordance with the other and that one must not derivate the other. In the end, in the day for the vote, and I have not submitted the amendments, in the day for the vote in front of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I will support these proposals and I will vote for both proposals for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u122	I thank my colleague Batic. The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u123	I'm reporting from a replica. I'm mentioned, I don't doubt the well-meaning of the predecessor, but just to make it right for the public. The government of Zoran Djindjic had 19 ministers and I think 24, 25 members in total since there were four or five, six deputy prime ministers. The government I inherited was kept by the same number of ministers in 19, and I think one vice president was less. So there should be a difference between the number of ministers and the number of government members. You have a president who's not a minister. You have ministers without portfolios. You have vice presidents who are not ministers. Therefore, it is true that this is the smallest government in Serbia's modern history with 16 members, but it is not true that the government of Zoran Djindjic was 17, and that of the government I run 24, they had the same number 19, and the New Party will later give you its proposal of the government, which consists of only nine ministries, or ten members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u124	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go. Please state on what basis you are reporting and specify a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u125	On the basis of Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u126	What's article 107? Replica is a member of 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u127	Replica is 104, but you gave the replica, I did not mention Zoran Zivkovic as Zoran Zivkovic but the government as a collegiate body. I think it's pointless to have replicas here just because I didn't mention my colleague Zoran Zivkovic in the capacity of neither the MP nor any way I spoke to him, I looked back in the past, and I only spoke decadely about which government had as many members, and Zoran Zivkovic was, of course, the president of the government at one point. Nor did I mention his character as Prime Minister, nor did I mention Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u128	Dear counterpart Batic, in accordance with Article 104, clearly states that if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly held an offensive statement about a National MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group or named the name of the MP, which you have done in a decade, you mentioned the name of Mr Zoran Zivkovic, on this basis I gave the replica to the MP Zoran Zivkovic. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u129	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, on behalf of the SVM Parliament Club, to present our opinion on the proposed laws, more specifically, in my presentation, I will be based on the proposal for a law on ministries. Of course, we agree that the government should be as effective as possible, that the ministry organisations themselves should be rational, meaningful, economical, and all in order to reduce public expenditures. We therefore support the reduction of the number of ministries from the current 18 to the16, as suggested here. On the other hand, I have to say that it is a good thing that this reduction has not exaggerated and that this reduction has not led to what has been speculated that perhaps the future government should only have ten or 12 ministries, because in this case it would simply be impossible to adequately group jobs from certain related areas, as this proposal does well. If I can make a joke, even in this distinguished home of the National Assembly, as you can see for the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 20 chairs are planned. The aim of the proposal for a law on ministries, as we can also see in the explanation of the esteemed legislator, is that the more optimal use of resources, means the rationality of the Government's tasks being carried out as effectively as possible, more effectively and of course, to be saved. When we talk about concrete solutions, we heard, the Decidently stated 16 ministries, we SVM MPs think this proposed structure is very real and it's logical. Many predecessors have already talked about it here, and we've seen the media that are connected by the ministries, and let me repeat and explain why it's good. It is extremely important that it is connected to the ministry, that it is now in one ministry of construction, traffic and urbanism and it was one of our grudges, when we talked about this same proposal almost two years ago, as well as about energy with mining. What the paper represents is that the Ministry of Agriculture is now connected to the protection of the environment. The Ministry of Agriculture is of paramount importance to all of us. When I say for all of us, I would like to emphasise how important this is, specifically, for the duchy Hungarians, because most of the duchy Hungarians live off this branch of industry. That is why I would like to point out why it is an important description of the ministry's jobs and what are the things that we consider positive. It is positive that the agricultural cooperative is in the description of the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture or those of agriculture and environmental protection, but as it will be called in the future. I must mention, on the other hand, that the supervision of the work of the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate, according to this proposal will be carried out by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, and perhaps should have been considered when it comes to the stock reserves, perhaps the Ministry of Agriculture, but we are aware that this was the situation for the past few years. Why is it important and why is it good that agriculture is in the same ministry with environmental protection? It is precisely because the most work is expected in this field, as regards the harmonisation of our regulations with European regulations, EU regulations, and unfortunately, it is just the protection of the environment that is the least done in the past. Furthermore, due to the extremely large volume of work, it is very good that the Ministry of Justice is separated and on the other hand the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and for us SVM MPs, it is extremely good that, if I can express myself, this ministry, this second part, is now particularly the Ministry of State and local self-government, in its jurisdiction, that is, in the description of the affairs of this ministry, is keeping the register of national minority councils, i.e. the selection of these councils, as well as the conduct of a special electoral list of these councils, but also preparing rules on human and minority rights and other jobs, while it is interesting on the other hand to keep registers, churches and religious organisations, the rest in the Ministry of Justice. So it's important that these ministries are divided and that this second-mentioned ministry is relieved. When we talk about national councils of national minorities, I would remind you that it is of utmost importance to adopt, as soon as possible, amendments to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, already proposed by this High House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in order to implement the selection of these national councils as soon as possible. In fact, most national councils are running out of mandate in June of this year. As a second step, I must mention that it is also important to make other amendments and amendments to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, precisely because of the alignment of this law with the Constitutional Court's decision. What's this newspaper SVM says hello? This is the Office for Rapid Response within the Ministry of Industry, and this administration takes over part of the office's competence, and this is something new and in its work it has improved the conditions for attracting foreign investment, which is extremely important and raising efficiency in the realisation of projects that are relevant to the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting, and we welcome this on the one hand in the name of the Ministry of Education, where science is mentioned, but what is even more important, that this bill put emphasis on science in this way, which in the section where general jobs are mentioned, that is, joint jobs for all ministries, highlights the importance of science. One of the proposed newspapers is that all the proposed ministries within their work cycle have a greater impact on the establishment and operation of scientific and research organisations, as well as on the selection of scientific and research projects of importance for their work. The next newspaper, which we have not heard much about here today, is the introduction of the Republic Secretariat for Public Policy, on the side, the model – jurisdiction, i.e. in the description of the affairs of this Republic Secretariat for Public Policy, is also the creation of strategic documents establishing public policies, as well as the harmonisation of these proposals for strategic documents for draft laws, as well as with already adopted strategic documents. Furthermore, as for us and minority issues, I would like to stress that it is good, as part of the Ministry of Culture and Information, the information of national minorities is highlighted. Interestingly, in the Ministry of Labour, as part of the job description, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and adult education, this is also a change, i.e. in the paper, because adult education was formerly in the work of the Ministry of Education. We remember, not so long ago, a year ago, we finally passed the Law on adult education here, and now it's in the works of other ministries, which is good, because adult education is precisely a qualification and retraining of labour market needs. It is therefore important that work and employment be linked to the issue of adult education. It is significant that the abolition of five offices is not a abolished Office of Human and Minority Rights, and probably some will talk about the need for a special Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, and we are realistic and aware that with such a small number of ministries, it was impossible to have a special ministry of human and minority rights, and we insisted in 2008, and it was extremely significant that there was then a special ministry of human and minority rights and that this ministry was proposed and that later by the National Assembly, it was also passed the Law on National Councils of National Minorities in August 2009 and that for the first time there was a direct election for these councils in 2010. As I mentioned, these powers are now being crossed, they are located in a slightly more decommissioned Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. To conclude, this proposed structure allows this government to be more economical, rational, but also more efficient in its work and therefore SVM will support this one and also propose amendments to the Government Act in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u130	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u131	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right at the beginning, let me say that the Single Serbia Parliament Club will support in the voting day both in principle and in full the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Government and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act. Why? Because we are sure as the Single Serbia MP club that these two draft laws have entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia following consultations between the parties that make up a certain majority, the assembly majority in this Parliament and between those people who will tomorrow make up the cabinet, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the government law, I don't think there's much to talk about, because it's about a technical amendment to one member of the law that deletes the provision to give advice to five members, but it leaves the possibility for the Prime Minister to count as many members as he has assessed by his decision that he will do the best work for what they are formed for, and that he can form other advice, and not like the current Government Act -- only strictly certain areas can be covered by the formation of a council. When it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, we welcome the efforts and the proposal to reduce the number of ministries to a certain number, this time 16. We believe that the new prime minister for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has reached the conclusion in the consultations that this number of ministries will best respond to the needs to address certain accumulated problems in the state of Serbia, and there are problems in the economy, both in finance, in education, in sports, in agriculture and in all other segments. Such a description of the jobs that have been given for each ministry, as well as for the republican institutions that are also defined by this law, that it has in mind that such a schedule of forces, I say, will best solve all these problems and best give the opportunity to live better in Serbia after a certain period of time. I wouldn't be here talking about every ministry in person. We can all have certain objections, that some area could have been in another ministry, but I am sure that it was in mind and that people will be at the head of certain ministries tomorrow and that they will be able to lead these ministries in the best possible way and that the areas covered by this bill can solve the problems in them in the best possible way. So I don't owe, because the time has already come, let me once again point out that the Single Serbia Parliament Club will support both of these laws and vote in the voting day for both the government law and the ministry law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u132	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u133	Thank you. Dear President, dear fellow MPs, I would like to join Mr. Chank's invitation to stick to the topic of this debate, because the moment is serious. There are big problems and there are high expectations, first of all, from the new government. There will be time for political debates, for perhaps some demagogue exposure, but today let's try to stick to the subject. MEP BORIS TADIĆ – A New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia will not support the proposed laws because we do not think they offer optimal solutions, particularly the law on ministries, which is largely complex and complex, I will talk about it, but also this proposal to amend the Law on Government, that one member who seems quite simple at first sight. We also heard an explanation from colleagues from ruling parties that there was nothing controversial about it. We see the problem that, instead of two envisioned by the current Council law, which the Prime Minister could form, these changes practically opens up the possibility of forming an unlimited number of councils. Our question is does this mean that there will be 16 councils, one council that will be in charge of monitoring every ministry, will we have some parallel government that will be directly under the control of the prime minister? Those members of the council will be in indefinite numbers. The current bill allowed the number of members of the council to be maximum five. It now simply states that the founding regulation will determine the composition and number of members of the council. Also, according to the law, no material resources are provided. We ask the question in which way will the work of members of the council be financed? There is a provision left in the law that they are not in constant work, but I do not believe that for small money or for no money we can get quality people, who will work on that council and help the prime minister in the great work that awaits him. There is a fear that this opens up a space for corruption, that we will hear here that some people will work in the councils for free, that they will not be paid by the government, but then maybe a few months later we will read in some newspapers or listen to in the media how certain members of the council received a bust in some companies, who got a job based on those advices that these people gave to the prime minister while performing their duties as council members. We have submitted an amendment asking for the establishment of a council to be notified to the National Assembly within 30 days, as well as the necessary resources to be allocated from the budget for the financing of the work of these councils. We think it is better to spend this little money that the state of Serbia has at our disposal paying the quality people who will do the job, not to say demagogically, they will work for free, pro bono, and then later to find out that they represented the interests of the Republic of Serbia or some company that participated in some business. That's why, according to us, this amendment to the law is unacceptable. As far as ministry law is concerned, the smallest number of ministries that will exist in Serbia's new government is mentioned as the greatest feature of the law. I have to agree that that sounds like a good argument in a situation where the state needs to save, when we have to show the citizens that we politicians have to get used to having less money and that we have to give up some things. But if we go back to the past, the question is, what is the measure of this reduction? We have heard here some ideas that a government law will be proposed, i.e. on the ministries, which would have only nine members and then we can remember these some megalomantic ministries, which have been affected from completely different areas of jurisdiction, which one man has conducted and today we can analyze the success of the work of these ministries and these ministers and whether this is always the best solution, that a man, one person, a minister or a minister takes over a huge job that he can't do, and then put ten or more state secretaries on top of that, and practically there is no effect of reducing the state administration and the cost in the budget. On the contrary, that number has increased. We, as a parliamentary group, also submitted an amendment to separate the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, as proposed by this law as a single ministry. We heard some of the reasons of counterpart Gordana Comic who said that exactly the areas of agriculture and environmental protection are the two most extensive and most demanding areas in the negotiations with the EU and that the opening of these negotiations awaits us at the beginning of this year, i.e. screening, and when these open chapters are finished, the real negotiations will begin. As taught by the experience of some other countries, we think that a bad solution is to have one person negotiate for these two very important areas. We invite you to consider until voting day whether you can accept this amendment. We invite you not to look at this moment, not to be afraid of that number, whether it's 16 or 17, but to watch the future and what the ministry should do. Only if you look at the proposal for a law on ministries and a description of the ministry's work is it written on over two sides. Let the departments stand barely halfway. This ministry has so much jurisdiction that it can't stand on two sides of this material of ours. I think we can come to the risk that these two very important areas, very important from the perspective of the development of the Republic of Serbia, do not do the job in negotiations in the best possible way and we have damage to the development of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I want to look back at one more thing that I haven't heard the promoter explain here, so I'd like to ask for an explanation. Article 39 provides that certain members of another law, the Law on Public Enterprises, are to be amended today, which is not on the agenda at all. I have to admit, I'm not a lawyer and I have a dilemma as to whether we can change each other's laws by amending one law. I think that these changes, which are foreseen together with one sentence that has been added as the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, where it is now added that the Ministry of Commerce will set strategic objectives and improve work and business, supervision and application of the proposal for appointing and resolution of the managing body in public enterprises. Through the amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises, as proposed here, this position here, this sentence, I understand that the Ministry of Business will be the one to control the work of all public enterprises now, regardless of which resolution ministry or portfolio they have so far belonged to. It is certain that there is a need to control the work of public enterprises in a better and better way, but I am still afraid, from previous experience, that if one person, one ministry takes on such a large amount of work itself, there will be delays and failures in the work and restructuring of public enterprises. What I also want to point out as bad under this proposal for a law on ministries is the abolition of the birth equality administration. We have submitted an amendment to delete it from the bill, especially because we think that this administration has achieved good results in the work, that it has developed plans, that it has received praise for its work, and that unfortunately this bill provides for only lifting, does not even indicate what will happen to people who are working today, who will take over the implementation of these programmes and obligations, some of which are international and will be asked the question of the seriousness of the Serbian state if some very important things related to achieving greater gender equality in the Republic of Serbia and are realised. Five offices are scheduled to be abolished. That's a good thing. Some of these offices will be joined as parts of the administration of various ministries. What I am interested in, and I expect to hear it in the presentation of the prime minister, is that what the new one is going to do, as this law provides, the Quick Answers Authority, instead of the office so far, do in the future? What's the concrete plan? How many answers do you need to be quick? How much they will contribute to new foreign investments that are needed at this point in order for the state of Serbia to speed up its economic development and improve citizens' standards. I call upon colleagues from the ruling majority to consider these remarks made by me, which will bring out my colleagues through further debate, as well as the amendments that we have submitted to this law. In the voting day, support the ideas and suggestions we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u134	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regarding Article 39. The bill, can you single-law repeal the provisions of the other law, I can only say that in the previous legislation, we had a situation to pass some law, say, the Law on the Budgetary System or the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, so criminal provisions are inserted into that law. It was one practice of the National Assembly until 2008, that we had two criminal laws, one criminal code that had just regulated the type and qualification of the crime and another criminal code which was scattered into various laws, so when the new Criminal Code was passed, all the provisions which were criminal by other laws were abolished. It's something we've already met in practice. No one had any objections to that. I even think you supported one of those laws. I don't know why you're here in doubt. As far as public enterprises are concerned, unfortunately, it seems to me that many political parties have seen power as prey, electoral prey, and where a minister from one political party is appointed, only the staff from the party go to the depths of the ministry, starting from cabinets, to public enterprises, even bosses and porters. This has led us to have problems in the functioning of public enterprises now, in the way of managing them. It has been very difficult under the current regulation to professionalise the management of these public enterprises. It doesn't matter if it's in the jurisdiction of a ministry or a special authority to deal with it. It is important to carry out full professionalisation of public enterprises and to have the management of these public enterprises in the best possible way possible and that it is not a loser or generator to suck money out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but a public enterprise that will bring funds to the budget. Unfortunately, because of the various times lost, due to the bad habits, due to the bad rules previously established, it will be difficult, not impossible and it is certainly one of the most important tasks of the new government, to finally clear up with public sector monopolies and bad people in public enterprises. It's possible at this point, for now, just this way. When all this trouble has been getting past us for decades, I think we can discuss another legal solution. For now, I had to do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u136	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u137	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, as we participate actively, the SPS, in negotiations on the formation of a new government of Serbia, I will immediately say that as we read the objective of this government of Serbia and as it is set out in these proposals of the laws on ministries and the Law on Government, we see that the new Government of Serbia's objective is contemporary, rational, economically efficient and legal state of Serbia. I put an emphasis on the word state. If I'm not mistaken, we've had about 13 different governments since the introduction of multi-party since 1990, and this is going to be thirteen in a row. Already in the exhibitions, discussions and replicas of individual MPs, I saw this political reflection that in Serbia the word "party" still comes first, puts the word of the nations, perhaps when it comes to Serbia, I may think of the nation, but it is high time to place an emphasis on the word citizens and on the word of the state. That is why in these proposals on the ministries and on the government of the Republic of Serbia, we think it is high time for the new government to put emphasis on future policies of the state's interest, the interests of Serbian citizens. Also, the recent political history tells us that there were different numbers of different ministries, different vice-presidents, with or without resorts, without portfolios, but not an important number, really not an important number, although the draft law and mandated government, which has the initiative, Mr. Vukic, has managed to show that it is possible to shorten the number of ministries, but we think that, of course it is possible and that rationally, it is not as important as the structure of these ministries is important. Since we actively participate in the government, which is since 2008, when only thanks to the legitimacy that the Socialists have won in the elections together with our partners from JS and PUPS, we are very closely monitoring the structure, distribution of these ministries. It is, of course, divided, and at this point in this bill, into four basic divisions. To traditional or state-owned ministries, to the economic ministries, because it is the task of each government to start a business, to put to sleep the business machinery of Serbia, to social-cultural ministries dealing with culture, which deals with the quality of life of citizens and development or infrastructure ministries. So these 16 ministries contained in the proposal cover these four strategic fields, four strategic areas of Serbia's development. I said it wasn't an important number. We looked at the SPS as a model, comparative experience of former communist countries, which managed to join the EU, those former Yugoslav republics, two of them also managed to join the EU, and of course the most developed European countries. For some reason, we Serbs or we Serbian citizens always like to compare ourselves with the most developed, whether it's Germany, whether it's England, whether it's France, whether it's America. From our analysis, I hope it is accurate and accurate, that neighbouring Hungary has the smallest number of ministries. Let me just read to you for a second as long as it goes downsizing the ministries. So these are the traditional or state ministries: defence, internal and external affairs, administration and justice. In the area of business ministries, these are national and economic affairs and rural development, while in the area of social cultural ministries, what is called human resources. That's the modern word. So the quality of life – human resources, because people, citizens are exactly the most significant resources each country has, every nation. The last is a development ministry called national development. So, the will of politicians, the determination of politicians and the legitimacy they win in the elections, can really always reduce the number of ministries. As I said, not so many names and numbers mattered, not to mention names now, some here were in charge of the Serbian government. That's what people forget, but what they remember very much, what we have to give the authorities in the new term, is, not who we are or what we are, but whether we can, and whether in the next term of four years we can really start Serbia and provide citizens with what they are most interested in, which is a better life and economic standard. In this text, which is before us, we can really get a wide range of maneuvering space, a broad list of different competences, the ingenuity of these people who work in the state administration and people who need to manage the administration. So the emphasis is on management. From my modest political experience, these were remarks by analysts in previous governments, and in this last one, led by the president of our Dacic party, it has indeed proved that the state of Serbia and the government of Serbia cannot conduct over phone sessions, people need to agree irrelevantly on what kind of information is written on paper, they need to have a serious debate and serious discussion on extremely difficult problems. So the key problem in the state of Serbia was not the allocation of competence. We commend the intensities that more in the focus of the distribution of competences in the first place are not the interests of the party or individuals, but the interests of the state and the citizens. This communication and coordination is crucial. You, MPs, from my humble parliamentary experience, were the only inter-minor meeting, in fact, two in a series, between parliament and individual competent ministries, was held at the foreign ministry, and it concerned, in 2015, the Serbian Presidency of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation. It is the intensity of this government and the prime minister who announces it in the media, to include as many as possible, not just party, political people, but also nonpartisan, non-party personalities, but experts. That's why I mentioned in the distribution of the powers of the ministries in Hungary that one ministry is called human resources. It's not just a deal, it's just about what has been distributed by individual ministries and the distribution of competences, it's about whether we're going to reach a political and expert consensus, in order to bring those ministries to life. It's about the capacity of people and their level of knowledge. My esteemed colleagues from other parliamentary groups have already mentioned negotiating chapters, they have insisted perhaps on this gender equality or on the importance of environmental resistors, but those issues already apostropheeded to these chapters, such as free movement of goods, capital, the right to start businesses, freedom to provide services, trans-European networks, or what, for example, Croats have, as their special ministry, the Ministry of Enterprise and crafts. We may have such a traditional ministry in the future. What I'm trying to say on behalf of our SPS parliamentary group is the way we talk, we're thinking with this 24-year-old political experience and responsibility for the state is that it's important to focus our policy and focus our government policy on putting citizens' interests in focus. This is the announcement of a new policy. Today we are discussing the Law on Ministrys and the Law on Government, but only in two or three days now, the mandater, and future Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, will present his exposés, the concept of government, government policy, we will have one round continent, and that will indeed be what analysts call one contract with the people. It is always possible to evaluate whether we have measured well, whether we have measured well, but this list of 16 ministries, as I have already said, leaves one great maneuvering space for each of the leaders, and not only for the ministers, there is a whole structure of people who participate in public administration and administration, which for many years, their entire life span is trying to start reforms, to measure what is good, and what is bad, that these teams of people are running and giving a new momentum and a new enthusiasm, that the state of Serbia is not just one three bureaucratic structure, a bureaucratic apparatus, but to start these many human resources, which are dormant, and that Serbia certainly has. We therefore commend these little things or perhaps less important things, such as the Republic Secretariat of Public Policy, which will deal with the quality assessment and evaluation of these public policies. It is important that a technocrat dictionary, which will not be colored with petty, party or personal interests, be brought into life in our political dictionary. We're here to talk, but it's our responsibility to start Serbia from a sleeping point. On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia of our parliamentary group, I can immediately say that in the voting day we will support both proposals, a proposal on ministries and a proposal on government. I hope these ministries and this future government will really make another historic step forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u138	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, my congratulations to your first presidency, very successfully and I wish you further success in your work on behalf of our party. What I want to say further will be about the laws and that of the Ministry and the Government Act. I won't say anything new from what's been said here except for two, three things. The first thing, the SDPS will also support the Law on Ministries and the Law on Government in the voting day. Secondly, in this law, we recognise what we said in the pre-election campaign and remain consistent with that, which is that Serbia is going into reform and that we support the reform course. Therefore, the bill of these laws is now going in that direction. Serbia is changing after all. The truth is slowly, but it's changing. That's what I want to point out, and the fact that we now have a law on 16 ministries, means that we're going to go towards some goal called 15 permanent ministries and that in the future, when the ruling majority is changed, the same ministries of spies who know their business with civil servants who know their jobs, who won't be afraid to be in another ministry, not to stress what it means to intertwine jurisdiction. We often shared ministries in the past by a feudal principle or by a person. We pick a person as a minister and we ask him for a ministry. We want Serbia to have one path in its further development, which will mean that it knows exactly how many ministries, which are the competences of the ministries, and that is what we should move on with. That's what I see in our reform course. I expect that this assembly will also bring new electoral law and a new constitution where this house will have 150 MPs. This will continue to mean rationalization, some new path we expect in the next period. There's a lot that's been said here. Personally, I think we should change something else on this road. We need to change the way we work, the way we treat our obligations. You can have as many ministries as you want, ministers, deputies, assistants, state secretaries, but if they're not professional, they don't do their jobs and how many people the parties delegate to. I think we need to create a responsible state administration, an administration that will be such that it will know exactly what it must do in the next period. There have been talks here about the reform course, there have been talks about European integration. We won't be able to do a lot of things in European integration the way we think. We'll get homework that we'll have to do. This is exactly what I see in this section of the ministries how it will be better and better quality. For me, this is an early approach, an approach to which we will go in the next period until we arrange for Serbia where politics, political parties will not dominate, where citizens, states, state affairs will dominate, and the parties will only be responsible for certain tasks and will be tasked with giving the secretary of state, or helpers what they should do, because it will be party policies. Everything else will be state-owned. When we talk about the government, we have great expectations. One government in one term can't do much, but there has to be a twist. I expect it from this government. Serbian citizens are fed up with changes, saturated with various ministries, ministers, etc. They're expecting a change. They gave one full support to this ruling majority, they gave them four years. This means that we expect complete changes from this government and a way for this Serbia to look different in 2018 than it is now in 2014. In the end, let me say that we will really give support and stand behind this government with full capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u140	Thank you. We are done addressing authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. We move on to the MPs according to the order declared for the word. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, New Serbia is in agreement with the proposal for a Law on Ministrys and the Law on Government, which is now in plenary debate. What I wanted to say to the public of Serbia and what I paid particular attention to is Article 14 of the Bill on the Ministry of Education and Science. We expect the new government to create a new profile, Serbia's state profile. Certainly new ministries have a great responsibility and a great responsibility to respond to their tasks to Serbian citizens who have given without backup and trust. Why am I talking about the Ministry of Education and Science? First of all, because I come professionally from that resistor and because I spent a long time behind the cathedral, in front of the chalk board, with the students in the classroom, and I know that so far there's been a lot of flirtation with the reform in education and education, and that really little has been done. Perhaps because they are very rarely recognized, well-known and engaged people who come from that crafty part of the job and always talk a lot about teachings that do not essentially affect the change and reform of education and ignore two basic trade professions, methods and doactics. By neglecting this until this moment when we really put serious tasks before this government, we have come to face the resolution that needs to bring fundamental changes to all other resolutions. Serious and rich countries such as Finland and Japan have recognized this resort as a guarantee of a safe and rich future. Reforms in that portfolio are slow, but mistakes are far-reaching if they are made. What is little to talk about and what is the essence of change, i.e. what should be the essence of change and reform of education, is a change in the paradigm of knowledge. For a long time, Serbia's education precisely for the reasons I have cited has been lacking functional knowledge that has led to the fall of GDP. It's something that's been deliberately or unintentionedly said a little bit. Education reform needs to change the paradigm of knowledge. The reform begins from preschool institutions, from reforming personnel who need to transfer functional knowledge, but we do not have enough of them because they are not educated in this way. Basic education is not basic because it is significant, but precisely because it is fundamental to everything else in this society and it is the basic foundation of the whole society. As the Chinese say, the army may teach you how to use weapons, but enlightenment certainly against whom. I would also remind you of what Churchill said in his own time when World War II began and when he announced his government to enter the war and said – we will need much larger financial resources, where to find them? A wise man suggested to him that he should be taken away from education, and he said: "What then shall we defend?" This is the essence of a responsible relationship with this sector. So the new ministry and the new minister must come out of it. I expect this problem to be recognized, to be treated, to be provided for by appropriate legal solutions. I have a modest opportunity and a chance to say that in the previous session of the Law on Teacherial Practices, we handed over to Mr. Zarko Obradovic, who I had a solid co-operation with, but no one has ever considered it and it is one of the basic root changes in education reform. So those who educate future teachers must be well educated. It's the society's most important sector. Education is a slow process, but the only process that gives safe far-reaching answers to everything and certainly society is being built here and a safe economy is being built there. This should be a sector which we will specifically address, which we will deal with in particular and which we will reform in particular and safely. It's been in these, as far as I've been in politics for 20 years, and I've been in education almost 30, various answers to this challenge, but there's been no real leap. The responsible approach to this, I say, was not there. This is the moment when we can't wait any longer. We must restore dignity to Serbian education and education. We have to give it back to him. We need to reform it so that it is truly the root of a safe, stable, future society. We must go to schools and to the nation to restore functional knowledge, the knowledge with which future generations will be able to be operational and be competitive in all knowledge markets, because knowledge is the greatest resource of a nation, a safe resource that no one can ever rob or take away from you and with which you will always be able to restore society no matter what kind of happiness or challenges we face. The reform should also reform everything that is now in education and education corruptly, from the textbooks' markets with those terrible material mistakes that we watch daily in our classrooms, paid by the ministry. Also, to reform a troubled higher education in which we have what we have and what we are all aware of, a sea of troubled diplomas beyond which knowledge does not stand. All of this should be reflected in this new ministry and started to be brought up in future generations what we have lost in recent decades, a positive and responsible attitude towards public good, and the most public good in all of us is the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u142	Time. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u143	Mr. Chairman, I can join your party colleague's assessment that your presidency, way, promises. I welcome the other Messengers of the people. MP Boris Tadic -- The New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, will not support the two laws' proposals. The key thing and the key reason why we cannot support these laws is that there is nothing new in them and that they resemble the previous two laws that this congregation majority has passed over the past two years. This is the third law on ministries and amendments to the Government Act most of them pass in two years. At first sight, when these laws are passed, let's say the Ministry Act, it comes into the eyes of the fact that the ministries are not given in the same order as they were in the previous law. Let's say the M.O.P. came first, and now it's in a great ninth place. The foreign ministry was in third place, and now it's in 11th place. There's no explanation why there's been a change in this order. This is usually called cosmetics. The cosmetics could be called the fact that we now have 16 ministries, and in previous law we had 18 ministries. There's been a logical merger of some ministries, and there's no problem in saying that's good. We had two personalized ministries, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Transport. They were connected to a person. It is likely that this merger will lead to depersonalisation, or perhaps one of those two ministers will no longer be a minister, so it was logical that we only have one ministry of these two. It's similar with other ministries. However, there was an assessment here of the key message by the promoter, yes, we have fewer ministries than the previous government. We have 16 ministries instead of 18 ministries. We had a follow-up after that, and it's likely by the end of the debate it'll be the end of the competition in who can offer fewer ministries. We heard 10. A little while ago, a colleague said, "Let's go to the finish line." I guess that goal is one ministry, because probably if we go towards a reduction, the key goal should be a smaller number of ministries, and that would be one ministry. It's not the key to a government's success. Someone said earlier – it will matter who and how those ministries run it. Whether we have 16, 17 or 18 ministries is less important. It is important whether Serbian citizens will live better, whether the prime minister for the formation of the new government, future Prime Minister and ministers, will propose measures that will lead to a better health situation that is poor, in an education that is bad, in a culture and information that is catastrophic, in an economy that is similar, etc. I think it's the goal of both the position and the opposition and that the opposition's goal is to direct the government on that path. We will be pleased if the proposals for personal solutions of ministers, the work they are doing, are to this end. It's not the goal of having 16 ministries instead of 18 and it has to be called demagogy and nothing else and a competition in who could make a government with a smaller number of ministers. On the other hand, there are some things that are controversial. My colleague Marko Djurisic spoke of amending the Law on Government and the fact that there is a danger that through the unusual, strange and possibly non-transparent form of council formation some powers from the ministries are passed on to those advices that we do not know the number, which we will not know the composition and in this sense there is one fear and we cannot not point to that fact. I couldn't help but notice, I'm in this area, like many of my colleagues sitting in these parliamentary benches, that the diaspora office and Serbs in the region have been wiped out. We had the Ministry, then the Office, and now we have nothing. We have four million Serbs living outside Serbia's borders. Among them are two million Serbs living in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. The Gender Equality Authority has also disappeared. We do not know how this issue will be resolved and which ministry will take that role. The Quick Answers Office quickly changed its form at the Quick Answers Authority. We hope that this legal form will give better and greater efficiency. I am sorry that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development will lose this part of technology development, because I believe that science and education are aimed at, or serve technological development, especially if we are talking about the accelerated development of employment, as we say – aggressive employment is important. Without technological development, it's gone. Finally, to repeat, we cannot support such laws, but we will see when we get a proposal from the government and the ministries, whether in personal solutions we will be denied and whether that government will fulfill its role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u144	The word has a folk letter by Prof. Dr. Vesna Mesarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u145	Thank you. I want to start with a general assessment that I think is overwhelming, that the normative framework that we have been offered, i.e. the proposal for a law on ministries is entirely satisfactory and that it contains a new concept, a concept of rationalisation, efficiency, cost reduction and budgetary rationalisation, a reduction of public revenues, a reduction of funds in the budget for the financing of the authorities of the state administration. Thus, in its concept, it is, as such, one step forward towards performing state administration affairs, in a way better organised, with a smaller number of ministries. However, in order to really enjoy our support, the process of implementing these good normative solutions should begin immediately, which means that everything that is offered to us needs to be done to strengthen the individual ministries, that some unpopular measures must be implemented, such as the reduction of the number of employees, and that those remarks that we have heard today, which, in my opinion, are somewhat standing, such as the abolition of the Agency for Gender Equality, which seems very important to me, will not be lost to its importance if it is supported by human rights and if issues related to gender equality, within the framework of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, be given due attention. Also, the environmental issue, which is one of the chapters for joining the EU and which is now in the ministry of agriculture's portfolio, should also enjoy the full attention of staff, system and financial, so that the part, where I think our country has steps to move quickly, is reached as soon as possible. All in all, I think we have a bill that fits the current moment, which is part of the pre-election campaign, which is part of good, normative, modern practice, but now the process of implementing these normative solutions is just as important and that it should deserve all our attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u146	Thank you. The word is from MP Borko Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u147	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I must say that we in the DS have received, as have the other fellow MPs, a bill on ministries in which there are really not too many elements to say anything that is critical. However, since we too are quite valuable, as the only opposition MPs, we have found some things that we consider not good to be in this bill. I must first refer to the frequent statements made by the majority representatives, in the media, especially that this is the smallest government in history that is rapidly formed. Neither is true, and I must say, the truth is that this government's proposal to have so many ministries is less than the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, the notorious Mirko Cvetkovic, as you say, and behold, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. So you didn't exactly show up in some kind of savings. I must also say that this government, in which it will not be, respected citizens, will be reduced to a number of agencies, but new advice will be introduced that will help the new prime minister and the almighty man in Serbia to both de facto, not only de jure, their otherwise unnecessary portfolios and ministers pack in their pockets, and that through a system of councils and offices for the fastest answers and writing statements to the government. This is the first time in any law on ministries in this country, or on the government, that the finance ministry is helping the scientific and research organisation and that it controls them on this basis. It's never been, and we're not clear at all what this has to do with this matter, and we'd like to get some answers, let's hear why you predicted it at all. What does a research organisation have to do with the Ministry Act, unless you plan to establish new scientific and research organisations, with the aim of writing volumes of books about the leader and his achievements, so that we understand. What does that have to do with anything? Why would the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia do a review, when there is already a budget inspection and a DRI? Establish something called the Republic Secretariat for Public Policies with two responsibilities, respected citizens, dear colleagues – harmonising the law strategy and giving an opinion on an analysis of the impact of the law. This newly established, legitimate and legal advanced sea has decided to set up, repeat, a secretariat for public policies. By following the terms of the mandate, we are entering a period of difficult, painful cuts and great savings, but you have managed to create a secretariat for public policies, ore research and waste of time. Otherwise, apart from these prerogatives, this secretariat will be able to assess, instead of proposing the law, how much the application of the law will cost Serbian citizens, who, as you know, each promoter normally works. We don't understand why you did something like this in the first place. You're making a new administrative body in the year of major cuts and savings. We don't understand why we're really asking, there might be some rational explanation. Otherwise, I looked in Europe, there is no such practice anywhere. You're also famous for introducing things that don't exist anywhere in Europe, so why don't you do this? These things that concern evaluations and analysis and the effects of the law, in Europe either works as either a proposing or a finance ministry or a secretariat for legislation, more or less what has been done with us. I don't understand why you're making a new body. I don't know who it occurred to, but I'm sure when you've been making deals about future schedules of nothing in the government, then you've decided to catch someone nice, which I'm pretty sure is, and time will show that we were right, but it doesn't matter anyway. You're creating a larger administration, you're making through this concrete solution a vague organ of a very strange name and strange jurisdiction, and I don't think in that sense this bill can bring anything significant, nothing new, except that it's just formalizing who's going to sit anywhere. You've separated some of the ministries that were previously connected, which we've been looking for in the previous session. Then you told us all sorts of things, the worst things possible, and now you're doing it yourself. It's not the first time, and it's not the only thing that you're obsessing about in your practice, so it's not gonna be this either. Otherwise, I would like to ask the motionary, if he can, from the opposition to us from the Democratic Party, to explain the answers to the following questions. Why is there no ministry for Kosovo and Metohija? Why are you forming a new administrative body? What exactly is that body going to do and why? Also, to tell us what these tips have to do with the government's functioning and what do scientific research organizations have to do with the finance ministry? Just to have some insight into what was going to be done with this proposal. In addition, of course the Democratic Party will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u148	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u149	On behalf of the parliamentary group and mentions both Mr Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u150	I'm sorry. Please don't throw it away. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u151	Thank you. I'd like to appeal to everyone, especially the previous speaker, to read the law, not to put a point where it doesn't belong, not to put a comma where it suits him or where it would like to be. For what? It clearly defines Article 28. The government law, which defines the establishment of a council for which the Prime Minister is entitled, which says - members of the council are appointed and resolved by the Prime Minister and are not in a working relationship with the government. It is not a burden on the state administration and it is not a burden on the budget and it is not a burden on the citizens of Serbia, although it is how you presented it. We will tell you that SNS is proud because we have brought to Serbia, engaged, that with our knowledge, with their experience, everything they can do, and in Serbia are now both Mr. Stros Khan and Mr. Guzenbauer and all the people who have experience, have knowledge and are willing to help our country. It is your problem that such people of knowledge, integrity, and reputation disturb you. I can't accept the false truth that this isn't the smallest and most economical and, after all, the fastest-formed government. Tell me the case. Tell me when. I'll remind you, in 1991 there were 35 ministries, and in 2000 19 ministries with seven vice-presidents. Do not interfere with the ministries and members of the government, cabinet members. This will be the government with the smallest ministries, but also the least cabinet members and the first government that was built on the programme, which was built on targets, which was built on deadlines, and was not made on frames, and after written solutions and programmes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u152	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go. [[SNS emissaries earn – There is no right to replication.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u153	How is there no replica? Yes, there is. So you looked in my direction significantly raising your voice, trying to push the truth through the noise, and there's no truth. I listened very carefully. No one has claimed, Mr. Granny, that this is not the smallest government. You know, I watched some game last night and there was a team that your president called on. That team had the ball 70% of the time, and it lost 1-0. You see, that will happen with the smallest government in history, which is smaller for one ministry, both for Kosovo and Metohija. I didn't hear an answer to any questions, except you put Guzenbauer in the story, I don't know why. Who's asking you about foreign experts? Who said anything about foreign experts? Why do you always have to yell when you're talking to the opposition? I'm asking you nicely. I'm asking you nicely why you need so much advice? Why? It doesn't matter that they're not paid. We know that all your experts work for free. I know, Mr. Grandmother, that none of you live on salary. I know your officials are talking about free work in a country where 5,000 dinars is huge money. Are you saying that the new minister of the Washington economy, who is likely to be elected here on Sunday, will come from a salary of ten thousand dollars on an 800-euro salary, and that Guzenbauer and others are working for free? You'll have to find out how many contracts these people really pay. The other thing, another mistake you made, and that's it. This isn't the only government in history, as you said, that has a program and a plan before it was built. Each one had a program and a plan, but this is the only government in history where the future Prime Minister, after the elections have been completed, writes a programme of the government in the darkness of his room and peace and quiet. Now, that's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u154	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u155	I'm going to be very brief and I'm not going to look at it. There are a lot of nicer people here to look at them more significantly. What the previous speaker once again puts the point where it doesn't belong, that every League of Champions game has a rematch. There's another 90 minutes. This government of the Republic of Serbia, so conceived, put together on a programme, aimed at economics, austerity, reforms, is ready to run all 180 minutes, win and enter the finals and win both for you and for the citizens of Serbia and for the people who voted for both SNS and for you. For the future, sir. Due to Serbia's future, this government and Prime Minister Mr. Aleksandar Vucic are ready for 180 minutes of denial, for 180 minutes of courageous reforms, to 180 minutes of politics that is the only life in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u156	We're closing a circle of replicas. The word is proposed by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u157	To solve some of the misunderstandings, because it's obvious that there's no telling why there's a DRI or why the government has the right to have an auditor. The state audit institution is designed to work for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia plays a legislative and control role and does not have the capacity to perform the control role on its own. That's why there's a state auditor. He controls the justification and legality of spending public funds on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and therefore submits a report to it. Does anyone who has public funds want to check how the authorities he trusts with the funds can have an auditor to do an internal audit? I don't think it's even the law. A body that will be involved in the analysis of the effects of the regulations. I wish we had a normal body in the government of the Republic of Serbia that passed the Privatisation Act, or proposed to the National Assembly, that it calculated how many people were going to be out of work, what our gross product would be, what our fall of standards would be. No, but the law was passed, the privatisation took place, and the party came out and said, "We lived without a loan." Yeah, well, you sold everything alive. Then they came and said, "Why are there so many taxes?" Because someone's got to pay back the loans you've been raising. As one colleague said, it was a loan, and now it has to be lived from work and from what it's earned to get the loans back. Why are you surprised at the advice? Serbia as it was found in 2012, does someone really think we don't need those people with a reputation? They don't do it for nothing, we just don't pay for it. That's the difference. We're in such a bad economic situation, that anyone who helps us get out of the economic situation that you pushed us into while you were in power. His references are growing in international institutions, which is why we're doing it. And if they fail, the risk was theirs, ours a little higher, that's it. We are not bound by them to obey. The decisions will be ours. One more thing, if one of these recognised experts helps the government of the Republic of Serbia and in its professional environment says that the Republic of Serbia is today a safe country for your investments, has a regulated legal and economic system, you can do something there, you can hire someone there, you have a great workforce. Why doesn't he take them? Why avoid them? Or we'll be dealing with political demagogy in terms of which team he played and what he did. Serbia is running a long-term game today because of a catastrophic government, and there is no rematch here. We've got to get this. No more testing various policies. Now you have to take the state to safety, or you want me to talk about 2016 when most of the payment credit comes, with which you owe us. I'm ready to talk about it, too. To take out the stenograms and ask the question I asked you, the loans raised by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, I asked twenty times from this room – who will return? Well, it seems to me that they will have to return Serbia's citizens first, second on their behalf, Alexander Vukic, who needs to have the funds at his own disposal. That's why we beat you so much in the election. Be safe, we'll be back in four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u158	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u159	Chairman, it may be easy for me to change my mind about your session. You probably know why. For the sake of Articles 105, 106, this is the fact that MPs should adhere to the topic on the agenda. That's not the case tonight. Please return to the agenda, i.e. return the debate to the agenda, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia to whom both the position and the opposition are being called. We won't say we're the only opposition party. The new democratic party with its coalition never says that for itself, however, we want to ask that those who declare efficiency, austerity, Parliament's reputation, etc. be kept in mind. So it would be good if this parliament did not serve that there is often a perception of the people for the gladness of the people, but to talk about a topic that is on the agenda. What kind of interpretation will be of some MPs might not be important until the end, but when the debate turns into what is not the goal, which is that I don't know what we're talking about and what we're talking about at all, I think it's the duty of the chairman to return this debate to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u160	Thank you. I believe that I did not violate Article 103, so I did not break the Rules of Procedure, I just played it openly, so the argumentable dialogue between the MPs of the opposition and the position and when the time came for it I closed the circle of replicas, so that you may request that we declare the injury of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote. No, I don't. I thank you anyway for the suggestions. I am closing a circle of replicas and I am giving my word to the MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u161	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, the Law on the Ministry is the topic of the agenda of today's session, which actually has the cause of victory on 16 March 2014, the Electoral List of Alexander Vukic – the future we believe in and in fact the victory created all the conditions for the mandate of the next Government to be Mr. Vukic. Based on the concept we have presented through the Ministry Act, we see that nothing in Serbia will be the same. That many things will change, especially with regard to the work of the ministries and the work of the public sector. By 2012, you had the concept of the functioning of the ministries and public enterprises responsible for the work of the ministries and practically as a single race for political prey for each area in particular, and in particular the places of directors of public enterprises reflected the political power of individual parties within the government. This concept does not exist more than on 16 March. Practically, this law shows that on today's agenda we have a law that shows what the government will look like. That it's a new, modern, efficient and small government precisely because of the number of ministries. What some MPs have put as one major remark, which is a question of the concept of the Ministry of Agriculture and the environment, the concept of the Ministry of Energy and Mining, and the concept of the Ministry of Transport-Infrastructure and Construction, essentially shows one lack of information about what European directives are, what is the European way and what modern states look like, what their ministries look like. For example, the Hungarian Ministry has the Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Food Quality Control. The ministry of Austria has the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, and the UK has the Ministry of Environment, Rural Development and Food. So as you can see, such a modern government has practically come up with this time based on one Ministry of Agriculture and the environment, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on energy and mining problems, has brought together what approximately all political parties support this concept. What is important to say, which is that European directives, which are practically related to chapters 10, 11 and 12, relating to agriculture, the government in the current and technical mandate, have begun this implicit screening and there are already meetings in the framework of negotiations with the EU. So simply including environmental protection in agriculture is an imperative and a recommendation from the European Commission on how to significantly overcome and adopt all directives and establish the sustainability of agriculture. So these are their recommendations that someone probably had to read. What is important is to say, and that is that by synergy these two sectors can achieve much more. What is still important, which probably Serbian citizens do not know, which is that we as a state must prepare ourselves for different types of programmes in EU negotiations on agriculture, so-called agriculture. an ipard programme that will simply require us from the EU that, with respect for European directives and opening and financial components, that is, by means of financial assistance to implement new EU environmental directives in agriculture, we can take subsidies from EU funds, or from EU citizens. That is the essence of these negotiations in which we are given the EU's hand by their pre-accession funds. Finally, what is very important and why the environment has to be with agriculture is the issue of climate change. We feel climate change, but the one who feels the most is agriculture and farmers. They are most viewed when it comes to droughts, when it comes to floods, when we have pollution to certain species that destroy agricultural crops, so that once we synergy these two sectors can essentially open a large range of investment projects in the area of agriculture and environmental protection. The part about energy and mining shows that these two sectors cannot function without each other, and in some past governments that now resent this concept, we have also had environmental protection and spatial planning and urbanism and at one point mining. So we've had energy completely neglected in the form of one of the prime minister's advisors. Thus, this concept of government shows that it is a modern efficient government that it should look like governments that are members of EU countries, which we give a strong EU message and that we are indeed on that path. In addition, we can set out our pre-election promises to sort of fit into all this European way. That part about reducing the administration on certain building permits, about creating conditions for the opening of an investment environment, we included it through what's called the so-called. Management for a quick response located in the Department of Economy itself. In fact, it shows one great will and desire for investors to really open all doors and that in the best and most efficient way possible they can really implement their opportunities in co-operation with the Republic of Serbia in the shortest and most efficient way possible. What should also be commended is that with this concept of the separation of public enterprises, in general, the ministry's labour sector should in some way establish a rationalisation and corporation of public enterprises that should reduce losses and allow the ministries to deal with finance and public enterprises, rather than really create a new economic, organisational environment in which they will create new laws with which they will come here to parliament, where parliament will indeed adopt and return these laws to the implementation of only for the sake of saving, in fact of the public sector, for the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises, for the purpose of opening up new jobs that relate to this spilling from the public sector into private and at the end of the savings of all possible sectors, so that today, tomorrow, we will be able to return those credits that some of us, not only to our future. Through all this concept of this law, we see that those pillars of policies based on the fight against corruption will not stop, on the contrary, they will only strengthen for the simple reason that you will have a clearer picture of how much money really comes into the public sector and how much it goes. This was not once the case, and we had no idea at all as a state, nor as a parliament, nor as a ministry, where all the money is being spent, you will have greater control and thus achieve some rationality. We didn't know how many loans, how much debt is real when we talk about the Republic of Serbia's budget, we didn't even know until 2012, 2013 or how many public sector employees. When we realized that it was 780,000 people then we all grabbed our heads and said, well, is it possible that this Serbia really supports this public sector? Therefore, this Ministry Act should also be supported by all those who are in place and in the composition of opposition parliamentary clubs should give good thought to the fact that support for this concept of the new government and the new policy should indeed be given, because this is a future that we do not only believe in, but you will believe, because you will soon see the results of this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u162	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u163	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a bill that, when really entered into the essence, clearly shows that a lot of things even a little revolutionary brings us. For example, the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government is returning with clearly indicated competencies. It is very important to me, first of all, because there is an item very important where the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government defines working relations, namely does not define but controls working relations in local self-government units and autonomous provinces. A very important item because so far we have really had especially by local self-governments right to direct the circus from employment we have had pure party employment. I believe that in this segment, something will be fixed and I believe that local self-government itself and how it will improve, given that they now have their own ministry. We've heard incredible remarks here, say, about protecting the environment. Why is it not a special ministry now, perhaps I can agree with that, but those who object, so they didn't have it as a special ministry, especially in the government of Mr Cvetkovic, for which we would say she had 27 members, or 24 resors. This government will have 16 resistors and I think 17, or 18 members, which is significantly less, of course. In the government of Mr Cvetkovic, the Ministry of Environment was together with spatial planning. I'm sure you'll agree that there's far less to do with the Ministry of Agriculture where it will certainly work far more to protect the environment, because you have individual authorities of the administration within the Ministry itself that are already dealing with it. The ministry, which was led by the minister in question who is also in court for its own purposes, was more concerned with this spatial planning, and the environment was dealt exclusively with in a way that through various campaign funds allegedly funded certain daily papers in order to give them the most attention in pre-election campaigns, and this was the entire protection of the environment then conducted by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Of course, I have a lot of other very, very positive solutions here. Let's say, it's very important that the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport, Infrastructure is united, I think it's going to be far more worked out now that our road infrastructure is being revitalised as much. It's really terrible to go through certain parts of Serbia. We've been getting so much money for our travel infrastructure, unfortunately nothing significant has been done. For example, during this campaign, I often visited eastern Serbia especially Negotin, where we have a terrible tourist potential, and you have no way to reach this municipality and I would appeal to the ministry that will be formed and to the resolute minister who will be paying particular attention to these areas, because you know if we have so far and some regional development ministries essentially did not develop anything, I am glad that it is even being abolished and that it is rationalized and that some ministries between and this is going to get certain information from the Ministry of Traffic. Also, I'd like to isolate what the Ministry of Finance has done, which, of course, has been his jurisdiction before. It concerns the work of the Tax Administration and I would like the Ministry of Finance to implement a truly comprehensive reform of the Tax Administration because I really think that so far it has worked very, very badly, because we have lived in a perverse system by which certain taxpayers could not pay their taxes for 20 years and that no one would, of course, object to them and, of course, never be punished, until we tell a businessman, if he was of course not politically decent even within a month of not paying taxes they knew that they were closing down either the store or the store and that way they might choke it. Of course everyone has to pay taxes, but we had a... A privileged caste that didn't have to pay a tax in any way, because it was simply politically similar and perhaps paid someone. So I appeal to this tax administration reform, that would be very important. It's a good thing the Department of Economy will have a quick response management. Who are you going to talk to now? Management for a quick response within the Department of Industry. I believe that only the Ministry will, through its systematization, determine in a very good and quality way that administration and I believe that people will get permits, i.e. get answers in which they can solve some of their problems, especially, in the case of obtaining permits in construction, in a far more effective way. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection is concerned, there is one jurisdiction here regarding the management of state-owned agricultural land. I would really ask the future Secretary-in-Office to pay attention to this area, because we have so far had an amazing practice. It's that this state land, it's been rarely seen by tycoons in various ways. Because it was either left to local self-government to distribute through various auctions. That's where the law would have to change, simply because so far they're so different. consortiums or especially some tycoon farmers came to large land in a truly double-crossed way, and let's just say a small farmer couldn't possibly get to some land. I believe there's a lot to be done here. There's, of course, a lot more to boast about, but what a special accent would put it on is, say, the Foreign Ministry and the Ministry of Education and Science. We have to do a lot of things about this other one, and that's why I'm here saying what might have to be done, what I hope will be done, given that someone is objecting to this law that this is a list of good wishes. I'm sorry, but this is a list that defines the jurisdiction of these ministries. I hope they'll be able to manifest it in practice. If someone here already complains that they know how the ministries functioned, now someone's going to put their party personnel on it, so the auto projection is a miracle. Maybe one of them used to do it, but it doesn't occur to us that we're doing something like that, because we want this country to finally move forward. I appeal to the future Minister of Education to do everything, we heard from Mrs. Djeric, especially about colleges. We have one degree degradation. I'd like it to be in that segment and how it invests because education is something that this country can only move forward. As far as the Foreign Ministry is concerned, there are complex situations in the world. We have to have a fully professionalized diplomatic service here. I believe the new minister or whoever's really going to be at it and how it's going to work. In the end, the Ministry of Culture and Information. This country is required to pass a set of information laws. Finally, to know who the media owners are here, not that we have the media, so after a few years we find out that one tycoon and one party president, or maybe we can say tycoon, have property over one media, and it's supposed to be run by another owner. I believe that's where the order will be introduced. As far as culture is concerned, I'd really like to see more resources invested. Unfortunately, someone in this country has completely spent the resources this country had. We're in front of an empty register today. It's supposed to be loaded. To tell you the truth, this year it's been marked a hundred years since the great war. Maybe we should all be ashamed that we don't have enough resources to mark it in a dignified way. I'm reading, I don't know how true that is, but let's just say that as a member of a people who experienced a real tragedy then, without a third of the population, we're left with no means to finish a movie about Gabriel Principe, for example. I'd like culture to get bigger resources. What we've had so far, this degradation of our budget, this devastation of our economy must have led to our cultural resources being what they are, and I'm afraid it'll probably stay that way in some future period, but we're hoping for some far better budget for the culture itself. I'd be done with amending the Government Act. Someone here is complaining about why someone's looking for counselors. You know, in life it's good to ask the profession. Smart guy asks, and he also writes, and the other guy's trying to remember. I'm really sorry, but it's a big deal to have Mr. Guzenbauer's advisor, because the Foreign Minister of Austria also took him as his advisor. Sorry, we need good relationships everywhere. We need professional people. We need such a professional system. Many other countries that are more developed today were not ashamed to take such advisers. Of course this should be supported, that the Prime Minister, above all, has the opportunity to hire good advisors in many fields so that this country can actually move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u164	Thank you. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, together with its coalition partners, they will not vote for this law. Mr. Arsic, you have worked very hard here to explain why you should pass the law, but the government law and the ministry law always has one problem, because it comes before whoever gets the mandate to put the government together comes to parliament, so state what the government's plan is, how it's a whole. Until we hear this second, we don't even know if this is a good first thing we're talking about today. Of course we can't support all this. What is obvious, quite skillfully written, is that Serbia is moving towards the office system through this government law and ministry law. I don't think it has to be bad, like it doesn't have to be good, and that's what I want to talk about here. I believe that we will have a chance here on Sunday to hear the prime minister, what in fact he intends to do with the Serbian government, where Serbia should also be our economy and state in its technical sense, where in six months, where in a year, at the end of the term of office, the Assembly here will give to the current prime minister and the government he proposes. Today, from you, Mr. Arsic, we couldn't even imagine what it would be, so that's why we're going to vote against it. Although you've given quite an interesting detail here, we haven't been able to see the whole picture. I don't think it's a drama in Serbia whether the prime minister's advisors will be paid or not. Honestly, there are times when people are willing to work for honor, there are times when you have to pay for it. I don't think that's what we're supposed to be running some big controversy about, it's what's gonna be the result. If the Prime Minister intends to make a large number of councils, it means he has no confidence in a large number of ministers. On the other hand, the biggest party in this parliament has received quite enough support from citizens and does not have to compromise with anyone. There is no need in Serbia today to make coalition agreements on public enterprises. There, Mr. Arsic, you're wrong. It was not the ministers who appointed the directors of public enterprises, but it was the subject of a political agreement, because it was a political necessity, as you had a political necessity a year and a half or two ago, when you and your coalition partners were building a government. For the past two years, the energy minister has been at war with the director of one of the major public enterprises. It was a political reality. That's what citizens should know, too. Some kind of system has to be built. You don't need to do that. I don't understand why the economy minister is going to get all the authority over a public enterprise. I don't understand that. The economy minister will set strategic goals for public enterprises. That the economy minister knows better what the "Serbian" and "Serbian" strategic objectives are than the agriculture minister, it is not close to reality. EPS, "Serbiagas"? I think the policy-leading energy minister must have the instruments to run that policy, otherwise he can't be responsible. The concentration and authority of the economy minister, the opening of space to the Prime Minister to make advice is, of course not formally, the essential transfer of the parliamentary system to something that the Germans have established by the Constitution, but I don't think that's anything that's wrong. In the end, the president of the SNS got votes, so he was given a mandate to do what he thought was right. What I expect to happen here on Sunday, I think that's what Serbian citizens expect, too, to see what the goals will be clearly set. We've been asking here for two years why we're not running a irrigation project. I haven't got one answer yet. Energy efficiency, 2.5 billion euros to isolate 1.5 million apartments in Serbia, a huge opportunity for Serbia's construction. Irrigation of 3.5 billion euros, for water companies, construction companies and cannot be missed. Here, there are many MPs here, I know them all personally, from this rural part of Serbia. In my capcu, 55% of the population is engaged in agriculture. When you invest money in irrigation, you can't not guess. It has to be a good economic policy. When I had the chance, I fought for it. What is important, important and much more important than this Law on Ministry and Government Law is that this instrument that you vote today will be used for development and for reforms. That's two key words. Mr. Arsic, I didn't understand from what you said, how reforms would be carried out and how we'd go into development. That's why we're voting against this. We're expecting Mr. Vukic here on Sunday, so let's hear from him the answers to all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u166	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Mr Petrovic said from this rural part of Serbia, I am pleased with that rural part of Serbia, and we understand each other well. You shouldn't be ashamed of yourself here. Of course, I'm sure Mr. Petrovic says that in an affirmative sense. Also, in that rural part of Serbia, there are two sayings: don't take it well, don't humiliate yourself. Driven by that logic, driven by that people's that one rod, one rod, no matter how strong and strong, is weaker than a bundle of tracks. In all that has accumulated, it has been imposed in our society, because of the lack of courage to enter reforms earlier, because of the irresponsible policy that the global economic crisis is a chance for Serbia and the messages we heard from the government in 2008, that the global economic crisis will not touch us, we have come to this situation that we need the widest possible consensus, the widest possible front of people, to get out of this state of our society as quickly and as high as possible. As an economist, I can tell you one thing, and I don't agree with you that public enterprises, because of their specificity and their activity, can't be the Ministry of Economy, but by the ministries, because then, by that logic, we would have to build the Ministry of Services, so the Ministry of Production, so I don't know what. The economy itself is diverse, different. You know that very well. It is normal for the Ministry of Economy to deal with the economy, whether it is public enterprises, whether it is a private sector, and that the ministries are dealing with their resolutions, creating an atmosphere in which public enterprises will function, but also a private, real sector... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... and create the same conditions for everyone and spend time on such things, not taking care of subsidies and public enterprises that, unfortunately, do not behave and do not operate in a system of merged courts, but totally individually, and even that revenue that would have to be used in the budget for some thirteen salaries or for not knowing what bounties. On such a principle, such a policy is put an end to this Ministry Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u168	The word is by MP Dusan Petrovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u169	Once again, I don't think this is by definition bad. I just think that if the ministers don't get a chance to have instruments in their hands, it's hard for you to ask them for responsibility. Public enterprise management is an instrument for policymaking. I don't know if it's gonna be good or not. We wait here on Sunday for Mr. Vukic to tell us what will happen to energy and what will happen to agriculture, what are the projections of GDP, how public administration reform will be implemented, to debate it here. I'm showing my big reserve that if you're reducing the ability of ministers to run politics, you can expect a good result. That's not what I'm saying, but I've been dealing with a lot of hard times and trouble in my life doing public work. It's important, just because of what you, Mr. Babic, have been saying, that Serbia is beginning to win. I would be the happiest, although I am in opposition in this House, to begin to do so. I live here, my child lives here, my family lives here. I want that to happen. That's why I'm taking part in all this. I doubt that not giving full capacity to anyone sitting in government can increase the probability of a better result, but we will see and then on Sunday here to see what kind of picture we should see in the coming months and in the coming years and start getting answers to questions – what about irrigation, what about renewable energy sources, what about all the other resources Serbia has, what about the opportunity to enter Serbia's mining of 4.5 billion euros over the next four years? I've been asking that for two years. There you are, Mr. Granny, every time you were there when I talked about it. I expect all of us to start getting answers together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u170	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u171	I agree that public enterprises were an instrument, unfortunately, which was used for the wrong purposes, instruments for employment, no standards, no criteria, cousin, godfather, shared ortically, and this is exactly how we want to avoid and that this instrument is never used on that side, not for policy purposes, but for sustainability purposes. That's why we want full government control of public enterprises. In this way we also show that the Minister and the Ministry are not feed, property, are not the place where the master is. The government of the Republic of Serbia has the highest responsibility for the functioning of all segments in the same Serbian government. All other ministers do not have only instruments through public enterprises that have been in their portfolio and in their sector so far. Their instruments are other companies, because in energy, I agree, EPS, "Colubara", "Serbigas" are the biggest, are the most powerful, but are not the only ones. We want to develop a private sector in all of this, we want a private initiative, we want mini power plants, we want people to invest there, not say – we can't invest because they only develop public enterprises and that in the way that – what income, if they make income, will divide thirteen salaries. If he doesn't make his income, they're going back to the budget without it for privatisation. Public enterprises are the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and thus must function, but not just employees, that is also how you use the instruments you spoke about earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u172	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the draft ministry law, there have been many words about the number of ministries. The prime minister, or prime minister for the composition of the new government, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, and more or less all of us in the SNS pointed out that he was one of the quality of this law and that one of the qualities of the new government would be that it would be relatively small. Under this proposal for a law on ministries, the Republic of Serbia will have a total of 16 ministries and it is certain that in the recent political history of the Republic of Serbia, it is the smallest number of ministries. Otherwise, in the 19th and early 20th centuries, Serbia was one of the countries that had the smallest number of ministries in Europe. In the period from 1862 until 1918, the Principality of Serbia, or the Kingdom of Serbia, had a total of eight ministries. Of course, times change. The state began to deal with certain areas of social life that it did not deal with at the time and there had to be an increase in the number of ministries. There is no doubt that this is a major step towards rationalising the state administration, that there has been a significant reduction in the number of ministries. What is particularly important is to say, in a nomotechnical sense, purely legal, this is one of the best written proposals of the ministry law in the last few years. Therefore, it is evident that the so-called resolution principle in the formation of the ministries is applied, combined with the personal principle, because in particular in the draft law two categories of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are apostrophe, and these are fighters within the framework of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and within the Ministry of Youth and Sports, this is a youth. What is also important to say is that the bill is fully coherent with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When you compare the draft ministry law with Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which lists the powers of the Republic of Serbia in a total of 17 points, and when you compare the number of ministries of 16 you see that this proposal for a law on ministries has absolutely followed the logic of the Constitution, which has not been the case until now. I would use this word message to draw attention to some incorrect information brought out by MPs from the opposition. As for Mr. Chanko's discussion, who asked us how many ministry employees would be, I want to tell him that it's simply not the matter of the Ministry Act. Not this one or anyone else. How many ministry employees are regulated by the labour system regulation, which brings each minister in particular. We are convinced that in each ministry, which is foreseen by this bill, there will be fewer employees than there are now, not because anyone in Serbia likes to fire people, but because Serbia's economy can no longer finance the number of public sector employees, including in the ministries, as has been the case so far. As for the discussion by Mrs Comic, who says there is no mention of public undertakings in the bill's proposal, as well as those of others who say they are mentioned, but who are not aware of why all public enterprises, i.e. the proposals for the appointment of management bodies in public enterprises and companies operating with state capital within the Ministry of Business, are very simple. Mr. Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS show very clearly in this way how the defamation of public enterprises is done. Now all acts on the appointment of the managing authority in all public enterprises in the jurisdiction of one ministry – the Ministry of Economy, which has not been the case so far, and no government of the Republic of Serbia has worked in this way. This is the first time you have a policy under one ministry to run all public enterprises. Not every ministry will run, conditionally speaking, its public enterprise or its state capital business, but will do so by one ministry, which will achieve much more objectivity in the work and much more efficiency in the work of these public enterprises. Notorna is a fact, and we all know that, at the end of the day, the prime minister for the formation of the new government, Aleksandar Vukic, said that public enterprises in Serbia, as well as companies operating with the majority state capital, should no longer be losers. These must be institutions that will bring income, not only to themselves, but to their founder, the Republic of Serbia. In order to make that possible, this was the only solution to all the proposals for acts on the appointment of management bodies in all public enterprises, and there are many in Serbia, and in all companies operating with state capital, and there are many, to be within one ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Economy. As for Mr. Veselinović's discussion, we can now be entrenched, so let's say - this government will have 16 ministries, which is not 15 or not 14. It's easy to be insolent, but I don't think it's fair to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As I don't think it's fair, in a political sense, to discuss Mr Dusan Petrovic. What Mr. Dusan Petrovic said in translation into a language that the people understand means the following – we ruled Serbia for 12 years, we did what we wanted, and we did a lot of bad things, we ruined almost everything we touched and now we, who have ruled for 12 years, as Mr. Petrovic says, are waiting on Sunday for Alexander Vukic to tell us what he is going to do and to fix everything we have been destroying for 12 years in Serbia. What is being asked as a fundamental question – who, from the DS, from the NDS, what are your names, prevented you from carrying out all those genius ideas you were just talking about for 12 years? The idea of energy efficiency was not invented by Zorana Mihajlovic. The idea of irrigation was not invented by the current agriculture minister. These are things that have been happening in the world and in Europe for decades. I'm asking you -- since October 5, 2000, who stopped you from doing all this? No one stopped you and now you're hypocritical enough to say – we who haven't done anything, now we're the ones who are going to bust out and can't wait a week for Alexander Vukic to come and convince us that he's able to fix what we've been destroying for six months. Mr. Petrovic, you will see a man of blood and meat on Sunday, a man of enormous energy, a man of iron will to repair the situation in Serbia, but you will not see a wizard who will give you an alchemic recipe on how to rise to the feet of a country that has been systematically destroyed in all areas of social life since 2000. There are no areas of social life that have been covered by the work of these ministries, without being devastated by various governments since 2000. Would you like me to list: finance, economy, agriculture, construction, trade, justice, state administration, internal affairs, defence, foreign affairs, education, science, health, etc. Everything is destroyed and now you say – we wait for the week for Vukic to come and look us in the eye, us who did great work, us who brought a lot of good things to the citizens of Serbia and that he tells us what he's going to do. He'll do everything he can, but his job would have been a lot easier if you hadn't done what you did for the past 12 years, if you hadn't done what you did, not personally, but those who led Serbia for 12 years, if you hadn't caused an unremembered rate of crime and corruption, that you didn't ruin the poor privatisation of the economy in Serbia, that you didn't do a bad judicial reform, etc. So his job would be a lot easier. There is no man in Serbia who is harder today than he is to Alexander Vukic. It is now easy to be in opposition, to sit with your hands cut, to philosophize about what needs to be done and to rip your hair into four pieces and to look for in every sentence that Alexander Vukic, or anyone from the SNS, something that may not be true or something that can be interpreted in one way or another, which has been done by the same people who have, since 2000, brought Serbia into a state in which it is now. Mr. Stefanovic, who also made a bit of a mockery of how this was the fastest-formed government, is, this is absolutely true. The election was March 16th. The final results of the election were published on 24 March. The government will be formed on 27 April. How were governments in Serbia once formed? Here's a little reminder. Many fellow MPs know this, parliamentary elections were held on January 21st 2007. If I am not mistaken, February 15th, or February 14th 2007, the mandates of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been confirmed. And when was the government formed? It was formed 20 minutes before midnight on May 14, 2007, if I'm not mistaken. How was this government formed? By turning Serbia into a flea market, which party will win which ministry. And that was the only reason we waited almost three months for the government of the Republic of Serbia to form. This is the famous second government of Vojislav Kostunica in which most ministers made representatives, to remind you, DS. And how was this government formed? It is shaped by the fact that Mr Tomislav Nikolic had enough political courage and that he turned out to be a political gentleman – gentlemen, you who have been trading with the ministries for three months, you who have worked hard in Serbia, so when you have finally agreed who will take over which ministry according to the feudal principle, here, we will not be a distraction to form the government of the Republic of Serbia. And if he hadn't done it then, it would have expired 90 days for the formation of the government and would have gone to repeated parliamentary elections. Now the people who participated in this flea market tell us – this is not the fastest-formed government. And when were we supposed to form it? Before the Republic Election Commission announced the official election results? Why didn't you form it so quickly? In all that DS says, or MPs who seem unable to agree on what is right and authentic opposition, there is much hypocrisy, there is much dishonesty, and there is much that reminds us of that Bible story about a sinner who throws a stone at another, about one who sees a thorn in another’s eye, and doesn’t see a log in his eye. There's a lot that's ugly and it's not like people who have all the power in this country speak from 2000 to 2012. As for the draft law amending the Government Act, there were a lot of words here about it and it was particularly insistent on DS, which is some kind of pop-up public, they have now stopped scaring the people by the fact that Aleksandar Vukic allegedly wants to challenge the war, war with the whole world, that he is not for the EU etc., and so, since they can no longer scare the people by doing something else -- let's scare the people by having Alexander Vukic become a dictator. How do we prove that? We prove that on every possible television in Serbia, we can freely say that Alexander Vukic is a dictator. Tell me, what country in the world is dictatorial and that anyone who thinks of it tells the future Prime Minister that he's a dictator? I've never heard of such a dictatorial state and such a dictatorial regime. What does the SNS want? The Serbian Progressive Party wants what the people said in the March 16th elections -- we want a strong Prime Minister, we want a man who can solve problems in Serbia. That's why we joined the amendments to the Government Act. That is why we allow the future Prime Minister to form advice, not in the form of agencies, as Mr Stefanovic said, but in the form of quality and professional people who will, thanks to their rich knowledge, experience gained for years, help the Prime Minister to help the government solve the accumulated problems that Serbia faces. We've had a big problem in the past few years that we've had, don't take me for harm if I use one hard word, but slightly fictitious Prime Minister. Don't tell me Mirko Cvetkovic was the real and authentic Prime Minister. On paper, yes, but he didn't run that government the way he wanted to. The current government – a slightly unusual situation. The Prime Minister is the president of a party that is not the strongest party in parliament, and his vice president is the man who runs the strongest party in the country. It is also not a common parliamentary practice. After the March 16th election, Serbia will finally return to well-tested recipes from well-organised parliamentary states. Whoever has the strongest party should lead the government, and we need a strong and strong Prime Minister, not to be a dictator, not to be a tyrant, but to listen to the advice of those who know more about some things than he does, can solve the problems Serbia faces. And for this reason, the SNS will also support the draft legislation on ministries and the draft law amending the Government Act. And we are waiting for Sunday and Alexander Vukic, but not to ask him why he did not solve the problems that we have made, but to give him support in what he is doing, so that both our children and our families, as Mr Dusan Petrovic, who also lived in Serbia, would live much better and much happier than they do today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u174	National MP Dusan Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u175	Mr. Petrovic, where do you find a motive for this speech? You're talking about political honesty? You went to Vucic and Tomislav Nikolic on 4 July 2012. You were at Seselj's until then. They were opposition to the government in which I was the Minister of Agriculture and won those elections, both presidential and parliamentary, so the government was made, so I went into opposition. What's politically unfair about it? You're asking me what I was doing? I was doing what I'm asking now to the government - why isn't it working any further? The irrigation in this country hasn't been done since Channel Danube-Tisa-Dunav was built. There are people here who do agriculture and know it, Mr. Martinovic. You are from a large agricultural area and a large number of people living in Ruma are engaged in agriculture. No one touched the canals of Vojvodina until I became Minister of Agriculture, so I asked – why don't you people do irrigation? They told me – no one said. That was the answer. So I'm not asking the things I didn't do, I'm asking the things I did. I left the programs too. For two years, the most polite question I've asked the Ministers and the Government why doesn't this continue? I'll ask Mr. Wolfie when he's here on Sunday. Mr Martinovic, when, as a member and member of the great parliamentary majority here, you rebuke me for asking a question to a man who is going to get the country's largest power here and formally on Sunday, you are otherwise an educated lawyer and a man who deals with the education of young people, so how do you propagate parliamentaryism here? Can't anyone ask a question? Then what are we doing here? Zlatko Dragosavljevic was a secretary of state at the Ministry responsible for mining, I don't know what it was called exactly, and he proposed to the government who adopted the mining strategy so that by 2020 it could be invested in Serbia, where your children and my children live, four and a half billion euros. I've been asking for two years what's wrong with that, and I don't get an answer? That's why I'm politically unfair and you're politically honest. That's not good manners. (President: Time.) I'm done. You have a large majority, and you have no reason to be arrogant, no reason to be arrogant. I guess we'll all be asking the prime minister here on Sunday – where is this ship headed? I think it's natural and normal and I expect to get answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u176	Thank you. Mr. Borislav Stefanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u177	I appreciate Mr. Martinovic as an excellent lawyer, we studied together. You've got a huge majority, you've taken all the responsibility and there's no more corrections, no more hiding behind anyone. I think it's about time, even though you won't take the advice, to leave this pointless policy of stories about what you've been doing and what you've been doing for 12 years. As many as we have been in power for 12 years, you, Mr. Martinovic, have been in power for seven years. That's your bill. If we're 12, you're seven. Total nonsense. There's one thing I need to tell you. If we hadn't done everything we did, a lot of things and a bad one, but a lot of good things since 2000, you wouldn't have moved beyond Mine, and your president wouldn't be reading Webber today and not talking about Germany and Bar-Minchen. Don't talk. Nothing's been done. I know what you did. On July 4th, on the United States Independence Day, you went to SNS. That's not an accident, as your former colleagues would say. Then you said – there is no fundamental difference between Boris Tadic and Tom – it is the face and face of the same pro-Western, treasonous and anti-Serb policies. That's what you said about Tomislav Nikolic, who you're quoting now. Don't take that sword, tell us about President Nikolic as a gentleman, when you say he's a traitor, and you personally said, Mr. Martinovic, that it's better to be a prostitute than a traitor. Are you aware of what you said? (President: Mr. Stefanovic, please. That's not rude. Excuse me. I quote. So that's not correct. You can say we didn't do a good job. I repeat, there's a lot of things we're not good at, which is why we lost the election, twice. You've been in power for two years. As long as you think you're distracting this people by pointing your finger at the opposition instead of doing something at last. Roll up more of those sleeves... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... The ones you're talking about, not here to lecture us on the parliamentaryism of the people in the bookies and the others, that you're explaining something to us. Don't push unless you recognize yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u178	Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that I did not understand Mr Petrovic and Mr Stefanovic's presentation at around 4 July. So, if we combine their discussions, it turns out that on July 4th, I went to SNS and told Tomislav Nikolic that between him and Boris Tadic there was no difference. I didn't do it, I don't know what date it was. What I know reliably, Mr Petrovic, when you already mention these rural areas and when you mention Vojvodina, from 2000 to 2000, the party you belonged to and which today is the government of Vojvodina, systematically destroyed Vojvodina in all areas, including agriculture, through the Vojvodina Development Bank, through the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. If you convince me that you and Bojan Pajtic were not in the same political party from 2000 until last year, then I will apologize and tell you that I was wrong, but I think I am. So if you're talking about that irrigation policy in Vojvodina, channel cleaning, what are you asking me, what are you asking anyone in the SNS? Who has power in Vojvodina, and who is holding it so much today, aiko is obviously not enjoying the support of 95% of citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? It is the same party that has been in power since 2000 to this day in Vojvodina. How did I and how could anyone from the SNS clean the canals of Vojvodina from you who ruled the Vojvodina, and what day do you rule the Vojvodina? As far as the manners are concerned, as far as Seselj, SRS, etc. are concerned... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... I just want to tell you one thing. I admit, I participated in some kind of foreign political war between Tomislav Nikolic and Vojislav Seselj and I used words that were very often inappropriate. I'm sorry about that, too, and I'm probably paying a political price today for those words and things like that, but I'm not afraid to say I was wrong. (President: Time.) I'm just finishing two things. What's a fact, two facts are at stake. One fact is, when Vojislav Seselj went to The Hague, what did he say? "I am going there to defeat The Hague tribunal, and I leave you to defeat the Dosman regime. “ Who did this to? It went hand-to-hand with Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic, did not go after the SRS. (President: Time, Mr. Martinovic. One more thing. (President: three minutes have passed. I'm done. I won't answer my word again. You who honor someone's political past, who respects what someone once belonged to the SRS, you great Europeans and Democrats, how can you not mind, the SRS in almost all the municipalities of Vojvodina where the censorship has crossed, to allow you to preserve power? (President: Mr. Martinovic, I must interrupt you. How do you not mind the SRS in Sombor... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u180	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u181	It's a replica, if he can, if not, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, because Mr. Stefanovic in a way offensively expressed himself about the people in the bookies, alluding naturally to me. [[President: You can't get a replica, you can only hurt the Rules of Procedure.]] I have to tell him, unlike him, I've studied hard in my life, I've finished law school, the doctoral dissertation I'm doing is about gambling, and it's one area he doesn't know, because his authority, which he represented, has ruined. That's why we have an incredibly black market today, and maybe he wants to keep it that way. People, by the way, who put them in a company called the State lottery of Serbia, have brought the company to a minus, or up to 150 million dinars to be minus. That's why I wanted to react, to give him a warning, because he has no right to insult anyone's profession, nor has he the right to insult so the MPs of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u182	Replica, Mr. Zoran Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a big difference between fission and fusion, there's a big difference between decomposition and creation. The Serbian Progressive Party is creating. It creates a decent, normal Serbia in which it is normal to accept someone's weakness, in which it is normal to appreciate courage and recognition, in which it is normal to make friendships, not enmity. But if we're going to catch up with the stenogram and catch up with the one said, let's take a look at all the things said, let's say, about Vuk Jeremic, who created a man in this room out of political anonymity. What did he say after that about Vuk Jeremic? Let's see what he said about Boris Tadic, who still raised him to a pedestal, political pedestal. Let's get those stenograms out. Let's take a look at what we're saying when we degrade some political options and some people. Personally, the SNS and I are ready and open to all people in Serbia, and to those who were members of some parties and for those who were not, open to people who did not sin against the law, estimating human weaknesses of quick words or thrown stone, verbal stone, but it is human, decent, normally to give a hand, forgive and in the same front, with the same idea, with the same program move forward. That is why I appeal – take more care of your customers, take care of what you do. Let the SNS run it, Alexander Vucic, let the SNS implement the policy we want to implement, let the SNS form the friendships and friendships with which we want to make friends and friendships. Take care of your house and what you do and what you say about each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u184	Thank you, Mr. Granny. National MP Dusan Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u185	Mr. Martinovic, I don't know what the problem is again. Neither were we talking here, or I wasn't talking about the SRS or the SNS, but I'm talking about your statement that I'm politically unfair and that's what you're saying. Everything else is facts. You're going back to things that just don't match the truth. I'm not asking you about irrigation. I asked the Minister of Agriculture of One and the Minister of Agriculture of the Second and Prime Minister, because I have the right as an MP to do so, and you're telling me what I'm doing, and otherwise you teach at Law School to children, young people, what life should look like in the Assembly. I'm asking the things I've been doing. I'm asking about the projects that have started, because I think it's good for 2,400,000 people who deal with agriculture in Serbia and because it's good for 7,500,000 people living in Serbia. It's legitimate stuff. And so, now, let me not repeat myself, about mining and everything else. Political honesty, as long as you want, Mr. Martinovic, you and I can talk. I think you've entered a zone you can't get out of. It wasn't the mother who resented his loss at the stake, it was when he went to get out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u186	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u187	Just for the sake of truth and precision, I really didn't want to offend anyone, and I'm really sorry that someone recognized me. There's no name mentioned. He's got new colleagues, let him study the Rules of Procedure. On May 2nd, you said that about Tomislav Nikolic, and on July 4th, you went out on U.S. Independence Day and went to SNS, the truth works. That's all I had to explain since I saw it was. You shouldn't be ashamed of the change in your life. No one here is going to beat you up about it. But then it is also not correct to say – you know what, you have ruined everything, and you have worn pajamas, T-shirts, and badges, you have not ruined anything. That's awkward. Here, sit down, Mr. Radomir Nikolic, and explain to him how you could say that for his father at that time. Why are we even talking about this? Because you can't talk about the subject and you can't talk about what you're going to do, because the president of your party in peace and quiet has, after 20 hours of work, made a plan for the government to work. We're listening to marathon metaphors again. Again, we're listening to a new advanced dictionary about something that's said, "padastal" and "let's go". I'm used to it here, but there are new colleagues here. Dear colleagues, this is a new vocabulary, understand. Not only do you have to listen about someone running two kilometers, and there's no air or there, but you have to listen to about it too – what, "let's go" on "piadastal" to put on. So, guys, get serious. You've got a big job ahead of you. You've got a huge responsibility. It's not our job to criticize you. We'll tell you what we'd do in that situation. You won't accept it, but there's no need to say such things to us, because we're small, we're irrelevant. Very few citizens voted for us compared to you... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... So stand up and say what you will do. Let go of these stories. Twelve years of power, we're like we were, and we're not. Then we're talking about your authority, what you've done with public enterprises, with agriculture, with the judiciary. During that time of justice... (Chairman: Time, please. )......................................................................................................... Mr. Martinovic, remember how the judges were doing. Remember the Information Act... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u188	The word is Miss Olga Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u189	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106(1), which says that the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. You keep letting everything be searched, just not on the agenda. When there's a number of points on the agenda, then you can talk about what's going on right now. But as far as I know, there are two laws on the agenda and very serious laws. As far as I know, we have a series of MPs who signed up for the word and who probably can't make it to the line, if it continues like this, not until Sunday, nor will we choose the government on Sunday. Of course, I only advertised this member's injury, although it has grounds to advertise multiple members' injuries. I hope that in the future, you will only take care of the time that the MPs belong to in replicas, not that someone gets three minutes, some two minutes, and some four minutes, as you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u190	Thank you, Miss Batic. The word is Mr. Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I'm afraid you have one Rules of Procedure for me and the other for the other MPs. I shall advertise Article 107(2) and Article 103(3). Article 103(3) says that the president, or chairman of the National Assembly, when a person asks for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, gives the order. I asked for it two times ago, but never mind, I finally got the word. I wanted to advertise Article 107. – at the meeting of the National Assembly, no direct address of the Members of the People is allowed to the other People's Parliament. You know it as well as I do. You've let this congregation run its course lively, to speak directly to one another. This can be tolerated to a certain extent. However, I think that this time you have violated the Rules of Procedure and that you have allowed the direct address to be slightly exaggerated. So the next thing you know, there can be more than a direct address, so I'd like to ask it to come back around, while there's still some regular streams, to get it back into the regular streams. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, little and dignity of the Assembly has been violated. Here July 4th is mentioned exclusively as the holiday of some American people. This is the Serbian Parliament. There used to be a Yugoslav Assembly here. There was Ivo Andric, as I recall, an MP. I think he's turning into a grave now when he's only talking about the Fourth of July as a holiday for the United States. I think the American brain has reached the Serbian benches. I don't mind, but July 4th was some fighter's day. I was a typical anti-communist, but it should be remembered that it was the holiday of a great country that no longer exists in the interests of foreign states, that country was destroyed. There's no holiday, either, but why should we have to mention that American holiday so much? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u192	The word is Miss Olgica Batic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u193	I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure for the reason that, when someone is advertised, the chairman, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have to state whether you think that the Rules of Procedure is hurt or not, and then ask me if I am asking you to make a statement in the day of the vote. Today, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are being permanently violated. I just want an explanation -- do you think you hurt or didn't hurt yourself, do I think we should plead or not? Finish by the end, if I'm advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u194	Thank you, Miss Batic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to take MPs' vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the day to vote? (No) Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u195	I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, because I think the dignity of the National Assembly is quite questionable when someone is trying to be a professor of Serbian language and literature after such a brilliant diplomatic career. I'd like to measure finally what has humiliated the Assembly more, coming to this hall in T-shirts that you call pajamas or voting on laws in this Assembly of Bodrums or Athens? Let's see what humiliated this congregation more. Serbian citizens gave their opinion on these policies in a vote on 16 March, between the reform policy, normal policy, decent, cultural, civilised, European society, difficult measures or policy of the Ukrainian scenario in Serbia, collapse, burning, broken heads, just to get someone back in power. Here, the citizens of Serbia gave their opinion and their judgment on it, but it wasn't enough, now the hair in the egg is measured. Now it's expected of someone all and now. I agree with Mr. Martinovic completely, there has been a lot of ugly, much evil in our society, a lot of unhappiness in our society for decades back. He can't do it overnight. We didn't promise a magic stick, but we promised work, but we promised reform, but we promised everything we could do and give perspective to our society no matter how politically it cost us. Serbia, our citizens above all else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u196	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I think that at this point we should close the circle of replicas and go back to the list, so we can give the word to MP Dragan Nikolic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u197	Mr. Chairman, breach of Article 103 and Article 106. So you have now violated the Rules of Procedure because you have allowed the previous speaker to have a replica in the situation, when, as you know, he should advertise the Rules of Procedure. That puts the two sides in an unfavourable position in parliament. It's not right. I wanted to hear how it measures “hairs in the egg. ” I don't get it. Believe me, I don't understand. So I don't understand which college is ending and I don't understand it, I don't understand it, but I also don't understand why you use persistent advertising of the Rules of Procedure to replicate it. I could do the same now. That's not correct. Then the MPs are rightfully insolent. But if you notice such a trend, you should also stop the MPs of the government and the opposition, as President Gojkovic said they would all be equal, they will all be severely punished. That's her first message. First, punish Mr. Babic, who yells at us and lectures us about measuring the hair in the egg, and doesn't say what device it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u198	Thank you. For this reason, I will not give the word to Dr Martinovic, but we are going to the speaker list. The word has been sent by the people, Dragan Nikolic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u199	I'm suggesting a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When I said Mr. Dusan Petrovic was politically incorrect, I don't know why you're waving hands, Mr. Petrovic, no flies here, I haven't seen them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u200	Please don't address the MP directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u201	So when I said that Mr. Dusan Petrovic was politically incorrect, I didn't say that because I don't think he has the right to ask Mr. Vukic, all that he thinks he's asking, but because he didn't give us an answer to what he was doing while he was Minister of Agriculture. Here, for example, I am interested in livingly, Mr Petrovic, while you were Minister of Agriculture, why, several months before the 2012 elections in the Ministry of Agriculture, you hired a letter and a number of 1,600 so-called assistants who had higher salaries than people who had 20 years of employment? Whether it was in the interest of irrigating Serbian fields, or for the Democratic Party to win the election by God, but here's history has shown that even those 1,600 farmers' advisers did not help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u202	Please, Mr. Martinovic, finish. Here you go. Dragan Nikolic, he has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I would first like to congratulate all MPs who have been elected from different lists and who have been sentenced by Serbian citizens on 16 March this year for all that they have done, but also for what they have not done, and they could. The campaign we ran was the shortest of all, it lasted 45 days, it was very tolerated by the Serbian Progressive Party very politely. We didn't respond to any insults, we didn't retaliate in hard words, we didn't go back in time. We didn't want to stay in the trenches that we were in, to be against each other, but we wanted to be tolerated, to look to the future, and to look to the future for something called the common interest of all of us, that our children and our generations are you who make us all here, that everyone, I believe, deals with politics so that we don't personally live better than we live better citizens of Serbia. Serbia's future is on all of us. We spent the entire campaign without fighting with anyone. We didn't tell anyone, we didn't hurt anyone. I think that's what Serbian citizens have very recognised and have given huge support to the list led by party president Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, with all due respect to our coalition partners who were on the list. So, on 16 March, the people made and announced the verdict to all of us and remains to now work in this House to do again an election campaign for the elections to be held in 2018. So, all of these citizens of Serbia are watching, there's been a lot of debate, there's a lot of fight and debate, and that's why we're very quick, as soon as possible, we've built this Parliament within 48 hours, and we've chosen the president, actually the president of the Assembly and all the bodies, or all the committees. Since it is on the agenda of what is needed to be able to choose the Government, which is the Law on Government and the Law on Ministry, it is very important and what is Marking to me, I took the Government Act that we passed in 2012 which has, of course, 17 ministries on a proposal that we will hope on Sunday in a large number of votes, and I am sure that the SNS as well as the other coalition partners who will act on that government, and I am confident that there will be at least 205 MPs who will vote for this law, will adopt the Law on Ministries that will count 16 ministries. What is very important is what is most important for the citizens of Serbia, and it has made a special impression on me that the finance ministry and the economy of the two ministries have been separated. It's impossible for one man, impossible for one team of people in one ministry to do two big jobs like this. Finance in Serbia is catastrophic, that's what we said in the campaign. We didn't hide anything, and we said there was a budget deficit of a billion and 400 million euros, that there was a hole in the budget, that we would have to tighten the belt, that it would be difficult, that we would have to take rigorous measures that many would hurt. We will suffer first because the party president and future Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic announced it during the campaign. We also disagreed because we were telling the truth, which is why we got the trust of the citizens of Serbia. The economy ministry is very important because economic problems in Serbia have received enormous measures. They've gone too far. There's no control. Now I'd like to remind you of "Jumko" from Vranja where the problems are confounding, where there's a latent social bomb that can explode at any moment. That there is Simpo, which is in major financial problems and duebiosis. I am convinced that apart from Vranja "Simpo" and "Jumko" there are in all other cities. The new economy minister who will only commit himself to this, only this company restructuring problem, the possible liquidation, the possible finding of strategic partners, and I remind you of 153 companies that are in some floating state where you don't know which direction that's going to go. Maybe something can be found for 20 companies, someone who wants to buy it, who wants to privatise it, but the question is, are we going to make it all work in one atmosphere of bickering, arguing, going back to the past? Someone remembers what happened 20 years ago, someone remembers what happened seven years ago, but it doesn't do any good, it's all far behind us. I think we should turn to the future, expect us to choose the government on Sunday, I expect, of course, a lot of MPs in this House to vote. It's also very important, and I'm going to end up with that, is what used to be the Department of Justice and the State Administration, it's huge matter for those two areas. It is a huge matter regardless of all the energy Mr. Nikola Selakovic had to cover all these segments of his ministry and I think this is an ideal solution to separate the Ministry of Justice and join the Ministry of Local Self-Government and State Administration and make one ministry. We are facing heavy and painful reforms in the judiciary, we are facing 13 laws in the field of justice, we are facing a difficult and serious fight against corruption and crime, we must cross all steps to meet the requirements in 2018 and get the opportunity for the EU Member States' parliaments to decide on Serbia's acceptance as an EU member. For that moment, I live. I think that many generations of people who have stayed in Serbia and many generations of people who will return to Serbia believe in Serbia's future. They believe in the future as we have been propagating, and because of that, in the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will vote for these two laws we will adopt to create conditions to choose on Sunday 27 April 2014 the least government, the government that will be most effective and at whose head will be the commander or conductor, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, who has all the energy, and that energy has been obtained from us, we support him and we will support him until the moment he is working as Serbian citizens wish. For him, the Supreme Court is the opinion of the citizens of Serbia, and in this regard it will get a vote from all SNS deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u204	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you are, Dusan Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u205	Article 107. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Martinovic mentioned it personally, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure and called and asked me. Now I'm going to use it to just say that the Ministry of Agriculture budget for that year and a half from 200 increased to 300 million euros, here's nothing else that wasn't nothing else to talk about is enough. These people did not enter the system in 2012, but in 2011 and the number of landowners who received subsidies from 85,000 increased to nearly 250,000 and fuel was 65 dinars. Since that's what Mr. Martinovic asked me, I'm now going to tell you the answer to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u206	Thanks for the stats, Mr. Petrovic. Here you are, Messenger of the people Dragan Šormaz, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two very important laws are ahead of us today when we adopt them and when we finish the debate Saturday, of course, what all Serbian citizens expect will follow on Sunday, and that is the choice of the new government of the Republic of Serbia. Most of all, I'm going to talk about the Ministry Act and something we may have heard as some kind of noise of objections. One of them was based on the environment whether there should be a special ministry or not? Is it good that it is together with the Ministry of Agriculture or not, of course, it serves the parliament that we are positing about it. I think it's much more important what we do than whether we have a special Ministry of Environment or not. We have had different situations, there are different examples in the world, in the EU countries where we strive. For example, this solution is found in several EU Member States: Austria, Hungary, Great Britain, etc., so this is not some new solution. But again, it's much more important that we take care of what we do and how we treat everything. We had a winter of great blizzards, applied in Vojvodina I didn't notice in public, nor in parliament that we heard what caused it. It's not just that the wind is blowing and it's snowing, it's happened before, so we haven't had that kind of situation. But no one has said that the cause of the Duke's territory is now covered by only 7% of the forest, 7% of the territory is covered by forests in Vojvodina, and it probably takes three times more to avoid such situations. Unplanned deforestations of earlier years, decades ago, and we are all responsible for this has brought us into such a situation. I have to say no matter what it sounds to anyone that I'm even very sad today, that Mr. Sutanovac, now you'll hear why. Because of those two kids in Aleksinz. I just can't believe that something like this is happening, and yet we're all like society, everyone who deals with politics, and here I was yesterday saying that I'm a 15-year-old MP and everyone who works in this society, but I also think that I'm responsible for what's happening to us. We've got a crowded river, and here's the news right now that the centre of Vranjska spa is underwater, that it's flooded completely, we've got the bloated rivers. We've all been in some local self-government for years, we've all been in some governments in previous periods, and we've had some previous situations. What about those riverbeds? Why is this happening to us? Why does a Turkey, which is practically a stream, take two children's lives? Why haven't we done all this, and we keep talking about standards and everything else that we need to meet to be part of the EU? Someone with a mockery heard yesterday, someone even overheard, what I said when I said about us building a highway, Corridor 10, like Shkodra on Bojana, we can't finish it. In Tito's time, it started to build. Many ministers boast that they don't know what they've done. We didn't do anything. And I said only one example - in this same European Union, and that's the same environment of life, and that's the same national wealth, and that's something that represents our national wealth, the same game, means they have underpasses for tiny game and overpasses across the highway to cross a huge game. No one's said anything about it here. We're arguing whether it should be 15, 16, 17 ministries. No, I don't. It has to be an effective government. We have to work, both in government and in parliament, and we have to have results, because of our citizens. It's not enough to look nice, to talk, to talk. The SNS and our coalition partners have won this election convincingly. We have a two-thirds majority in parliament. I don't even remember when it was like that. We won this election. I would first of all order this to my colleagues, and also to those who are moving to the government and have enough courage, after everything that's happened in Serbia in recent years, after everything we've been through and after everything we've been experiencing today, that now it's us who decide. We will be responsible and responsible for all actions and inactions or bad actions in the next period. It's the people's will. We'll go to court of national will one day, when this term is over. This same people, I think of us who will now form and choose the government, will tell us what they think in four years, and therefore I think that now less than ever, we need compromises, that Serbia is in such a situation and that we need to choose, based on these laws, a strong government with a strong, determined and courageous prime minister, what Alexander Vukic will surely be. That's why we make these laws, so we can prepare it, because it's the people's will to do it. It's the people's will to do it. When we end it on Sunday, then we need to fix everything else and change the situation in which Serbia is now and that what happened in Alexinac never happens again yesterday, to arrange for all of Serbia in such a way that our citizens can live safely, safely, to have jobs, to earn money for their families and, of course, to be proud of living in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u208	Thank you, Mr. Shormas. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Let MP Zoran Zivkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u209	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, that two legislative proposals that are well and well-designed and done are just today's debate and today's discussions. When we talk about the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Government Act, we know very well that only one member is being changed here and that is why I don't see why all those objections that talk about the number of councils. The previous proposal and the previous Government Act discussed advice on economic issues and on public services. Here we just expanded and defined it to be an unlimited number of council members and an unlimited number of council members. When we talk about the second proposal, which is the proposal for a law on ministries, I will also mention the numbers. I see we've all talked about numbers today, whether it was 29, 18, 16. True, it is true that two resistors have fewer than the previous government and that is now a proposal with 16 ministries. What he's saying is that it's a good proposal and it's going in the right direction, that it's just going to do what we promised in the pre-election campaign, it's the naturality of all those resolutions that were in the previous assembly in some other ministries. For example, traffic and infrastructure are together with construction, mining and energy, agriculture and environmental protection, state administration and local self-government, work, employment, combat and social issues, trade and tourism with telecommunications. We need to say something that should be done by the future government and all these ministries – to continue exactly what was good in previous work and in the previous government, which is to end the process of Eurointegration, to continue to negotiate and resolve Brussels negotiations, to continue the fight against corruption and crime that has produced enviable results, and to work primarily on the regulation and reform of public finances, to work on the regulation of public enterprises, to re-industry, to work on creating a positive atmosphere and business environment in our country, to move and to create new laws and new laws in order to work and to change a lot of things in working legislation. First of all, all ministries must work to make concrete measures, and above all on concrete measures, both monitoring and implementing them. The public sector should be made competitive and profitable, and social responsibility should be introduced to all our business entities, as many public enterprises as well as businesses, particularly to the local community. I believe that only profits should be taken into account that they all return one part of their profits to the socially responsible local community in which they work and create. I don't want to be too long, because we've heard a lot today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u210	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Let the People's MP Marijan Risticevic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u211	We've heard a lot of interesting stories today. Few of which or almost none had anything to do with the agenda or the debate, so unfortunately, the poor beginning of this parliament's work continues. Elections have been completed for both the government and the opposition, and everyone needs to do their job. I think the campaign after the campaign will be of no use to anyone, nor to present MPs, or citizens of Serbia, or to a future government that should be formed as soon as possible. That's what I agree with you about. As for the government law and the ministry law, thorough constitutional changes are necessary, including in this area. The party has long established its proposal to reform the political system, which includes changes in this area as well. One of our proposals is also the office government, which means the government that will be elected to parliament, but whose permanent head will be the government's president, who will be in the future that I am among other changes to ministers who are part of his cabinet. Before that, changes are related to the selection of MPs, which would be different, the election of presidents, etc. But we'll have time to talk about it. Part of these reforms is that parliament does not pass a law on ministries, but that the government regulates it itself by its regulation and it is a practice in many successful democracies on our continent and I think it is a good time that when someone has such a large majority that is against my will, but still wins in this Parliament, to try to use it for something useful. The government regulation is usually the organisation of the work of ministries, i.e. a regulation on the formation of ministries in the Federal Government of the former Yugoslavia, so that it exists as a practice in our premises. We are proposing and you will see through our amendments that the new Serbian government has ten members, that there are prime ministers and nine ministers, nine ministries that you will see in the amendments that will come later, but to read to you which ones are the ministries. These are: the Ministry of Finance and Economy, Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Justice, Human Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Agriculture, the environment and spatial planning, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Social Policy and the Alternative Ministry of Human Resources and the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture. This is not a race with which the government will be smaller, whose proposal will be smaller, but this is a serious proposal that otherwise exists in our environment. For example, the Hungarian government only has eight ministries. Some have called for these examples, so it would be a significant reform or step towards more effective government work if it were offered in this case. This kind of bill, or these two laws, doesn't change anything. One ministry more, less really can't be measured with any historical progress or civilization or any other. I think we spent a lot of time today discussing something that isn't that important. The new government must be more efficient, better and faster. No matter who forms it, the SNS has the mandate completely natural after such an election. The discussions I heard today aim to make it seem to me that they already justify the failure of this government - and don't ask the Wolf on Sunday what he's going to do, and don't ask him for six months from now what you haven't done. I think it's a one-off saveout. I would not like to see defeat happen not because of the SNS, but because of the citizens of Serbia who will be the real victims of your future defeat. The Prime Minister's advice is a completely pointless matter. The office for quick answers is otherwise, I see that you do not know, founded a year ago by the Serbian government's regulation last May, only it didn't start working and that's something that tells you what it's doing. Secondly, I see the Government Act again has ministers without portfolios. That's total nonsense. That's what the people call "ministers for nothing" and that's what it is. It's just a place to promote inter-coalize agreements. (President: Time.) ) Finally, the great participation of many SNS people in today's debate, especially people sitting in front row across from me, are evidence, I can see it, I can't argue, but it seems to me, so I have the right to say it, that it is actually a continuation of the election, to see who will be head of SNS MPs in this Parliament. It is interesting to me as someone who has been in parliament for a very long time, but I don't think it contributes to the discussion and does not contribute to making serious decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u212	Thank you. If you are not informed, the SNS has the president of the parliamentary group. That's Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u213	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, if you give me your word. With what right can you comment on my speech? You can pick up the replica, sit there in the bench and then talk to me. You're not the one who's set up for a doctor and for a reason, you're the one who respects the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u214	You've made a lie. I just gave you the information you needed. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I must say in the beginning that, Mr. Chairman, you are wrong. There's not a single boss's MP group. She's got 135 or 158 bosses. That's how many people have chosen in the election. Someone who has two members is easy for him to establish a boss if they don't fight. When we are offered a government of ten members, I agree with that, it will be the government of two politicians and eight experts or the government of the prime minister of politicians, his vice president of analysts and eight experts. Let's get back to the subject that's very serious. I'd like those ministries to be smaller, but yesterday we elected the President of the Assembly, the day before yesterday, the parliamentary groups proposed committees, etc., we've established the Assembly. This country isn't someone else's. Some people here act like the state doesn't belong to us. This country is a community of people. It's seven million shareholders who chose in the election the ones they wanted chose who would represent them, and so the citizens should experience, that the state is a community of people and their property. Each of them owns seven millionths. They transferred their sovereignty in the elections to their representatives, as in the action society. That's how the Assembly was formed. On their behalf, we have to choose the government or somewhere to choose the board of directors. This time, the government, to which we will convey this sovereignty, is elected so that this government is sovereign, because the people are the source of all sovereignty. The interstep to rule by the rules is to pass the Ministry Act. So those who have been chosen propose it to establish the rules of those whom they will choose to be sovereign in the name of the people who chose us all. In their name we will choose this government, and in order to choose it must be defined the rules by which that government will operate. So I understood this law as the interstep. This government has one problem. This government, which should rule under these laws, under the Government Act and the Ministry Act, will not rule. This government has almost nothing to rule with. This government has been given a historic role to start building a state. The state's almost gone, the state's gone. She was ripped out of the hands of the citizens, went to some other centers of power. There's been a redistribution of social wealth. Those who took wealth took political power, controlled their MPs, their loved ones, their politicians, etc. It took away the people's sovereignty, took away the electoral will. Everything was taken from the citizens, eventually taken from the states. By law on these ministries, we don't prescribe this government how it will rule. This is the first government required to start building a state, to form a country, so that all the following governments continue to build that state on some normal basis. Until now, it's been renovated from the chimneys down. That's why we're all living together now in some wasted cabin someone's calling the state. As many ministries as will have, I will quote, I don't think he said it, but he introduced it into Serbia's political practice, he said -- it doesn't matter what kind of cat it is, whether it's colorful or black, but whether it's hunting mice. So it doesn't matter to me what the ministry is connected to, whether the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection is together, whether it should be special, whether it should be in energy. The most important thing is whether or not we intend to take care of environmental protection. If she belongs to agriculture, I see some reason here too. It's modern in Europe now. We need to fight for food safety. In order for the food to be safe, we have to have clean air, soil, water. In order for that to happen, it is normal for the ministry, if not special, to protect the environment to belong to someone, to me it is most normal to be associated with agriculture. So, if someone has to control the regularity of land, air, water, since it's already controlled agricultural land, since it's a water industry, it's perfectly normal for it to be a protection of the environment. I would also like the Ministry of Finance, Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, once and for all officials for the same job to determine the same salary, and that according to this law, the Government is doing just that, that all those who work, that it does not happen to us that 3,000 officials in agencies have a higher salary than the president of the state, that those who do the same job have the same salary, no matter what level the civil servants are. I'd like them to curb bribes and corruption, because our civil servants, which is a state of affairs, may have been found by those from 2000 to 2012, that civil servants behave like little gods to us, that man is nowhere smaller than in front of a counter, and nowhere is bigger than behind the counter, that public powers and public functions were used for private businesses, as a starting point to rape as much money and as many envelopes as possible. I'd like the Ministry of Economy to form the foundations of the economy that will make money, which will make a surplus, not a deficit. All governments since 2000 have been dealing with the redistribution of social wealth, the redistribution of shortages. I'd like to make a surplus once, that this government through these ministries, and that's why we should have discussed it, the Ministry of Economy, made such an atmosphere, such an ambience that the economy finally starts delivering money and that we have something to share. This is the only place we've been living off the shortfall, the debt, all the deficits we've made up for by borrowing abroad for 17 to 20 billion. One of them is 17, we had to make a debt to pay off the part that arrived for payment. In the last two years alone, nine billion euros of interest and capital have arrived. Mr. Arsic, correct me if I'm wrong. That hole was patched up in another hole. I don't agree with that. I'd like this government to pay back the money when the debt is first invested in the economy, agriculture, the food industry, so that we can make some money, some of the debt back, and to provide the people with the existence, that everyone has the right to a fair job, a decent home, a decent salary, etc., available education and health care, but first of all we have to make sure that we're in debt, because this is not going to get far. I'd like the Ministry of Business to allow that surplus to be made, so we can really share more, and even if we had some resources... Long is a bad friend. If we don't split up quickly, if we don't invest the money because we don't have a source to pay back, we can't go far. For 20 billion, public debt is increased, 22 billion is in charge of the economy, everyone forgets that, and population six, we owe almost 50 billion. Our internal debt is as foreign to foreign banks. Our debt structure is bad, short-term. If we had invested that money only out of public debt first through agriculture and the food industry, that 20 billion, if we had broken half, if we had lost 10 billion now we would have owed less than 10 billion. But the money was spent by going directly out of debt to public consumption, going for the purchase of foreign goods, and it destroyed domestic production. Now we're where we are. The loudest are those who are, in my opinion, the most responsible for the current situation. As for the Ministry of Agriculture and Gulf Systems, I would support an opposition colleague there, would support him even more if something had been done in the course of his rule regarding these bay systems. If I were to talk about it, I'd like to use those bay systems that were built while this country's public debt grew, grew up, grew up, despite the fact that we were forgiven by the Parisian, London Club five, six billion, that we were in debt 17. Yet we did not create such gulf systems and God punished us. Now our flood has become a water system. We didn't arrange the water streams. We didn't do anything. We're only in charge. Watched on the principle of how to be God how to help myself and my neighbor. That behavior led us here. I believe that this time, the Ministry of Agriculture will pay attention to the common European agricultural policy that has been turned, that this time we will support small farmers, small agricultural holdings, that we will also enable rural development, that we will improve the demographic structure. That what peasants produce as close as possible to the site of production is processed. To find a chance for both the farmer in the field and the factory worker. That the hand-to-hand live as close as possible to the village, as close as possible to the place of production. Now the average age in the village is 59 years. If we continue like this in 10 years we will completely empty the territory in rural parts of Serbia. You can look at which nations have growth in the environment and then you will know whose herd and meadows will be in the future, unless agricultural policy changes and turns to small agricultural land and improves the processing industry, which should also be theirs. The government should support their cooperatives, their associations, so that anything they produce can be processed. Of the 650 thousand owners, we've been missing 150 grand since 2000. I believe that with 500 thousand landowners, we can restore Serbia, that each landowner can produce in primary production and process 30,000 euros, and that is enough for each average property to have only two acres of plastics and raise half a hectare of orchards and to process it all. That's enough to make 15 billion social products, to export offensively, to deprive ourselves and keep us more. Here's the Happy Constitution, here's an example of how the real state and the new government are, when it comes, I'll also remind it. This country started to be made by peasants, they made it. They made a state, they made the most modern constitution, and I believe that Serbia is in great difficulty, and it's hard to come out, that in great trouble, but this government has one chance, a unique opportunity, it's an opportunity for courage, to introduce itself in the best light, to go and build the foundations of that country in the name of the ancestors, to show that we are worthy of our ancestors and our descendants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u216	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, it is my opinion that the proposal for a law on ministries submitted by Mr. Arsic is not irreparable. Since there is a chance to fix this bill, the two of us in the New Party have submitted 38 amendments to this bill and we are prepared to finally vote in favour of this bill if the assembly majority accepts all 38 amendments. To be clear about whether or not you should accept the amendments, it would be your turn to listen to our court or to the assessment of this bill. Three are the criteria on which we judge this bill. One criterion concerns the continuity of the government's structure. Since the introduction of a multi-party system, a new ministry law has always been adopted before each government constitution, so we have had different governments counting different numbers of ministries, from 17 to 24, for example. I believe we all know that in the modern rule of law, the Ministry is the primary authorities of the state administration. I think here was a chance for this congregational majority to show a more serious approach, to provide us with a little more time, to propose a different structure of government that we might be able to secure a consensus, and then to arrange for it to be some kind of government structure that will be valid after the next election. A new party has submitted such a structure. Zoran Zivkovic mentioned it here. We offer one government of nine ministries and the Prime Minister. So, the government with 10 members. Here it is mentioned, I think Mr. Babic did it, that this bill rests on efficiency and austerity. It is true that the government, which would consist of 16 ministries, would have been the government that would have been the smallest in this period of 24 years since 1990. Mr. Arsic said that the government would only count 16 ministries. As there are MPs and MPs of the SNS, I see that Mr Risticevic is most interested in this proposal, those who are keeping an eye on us, may be interested in one place in our future government, probably expertly, I would just like to remind you that these are the ministries that we should replace this proposal of the ministries, which came from the congregation's majority. These are the following ministries: 1) finance and economy, 2) external affairs and European integration, 3) justice, human rights, state administration and local self-government, 4) internal affairs, 5) defence, 6) agriculture, environment, spatial planning, 7) infrastructure and natural resources, 8) health, work and social policy and 9) education, science and culture. We think that in the bill of law, which would rest on this government structure, we could say that we want to enter the principle of efficiency and austerity, so we could argue that it's a government with only nine ministries. For the government with 16 ministries, we can't claim that. The third criterion on which I appreciate it, personally, this proposal, concerns some criteria that must be respected when a government or government structure is formed. Four are the usual criteria. One is historical, the other is theoretical, the third is life, the fourth is projective. Now I am prepared to work each of these criteria out to detail, and from the congregation majority here, neither Mr Babic nor Mr Arsic, nor from any of the SNS, I have not heard a hint of criteria based on which a proposal for such a structure of government was formed. Since we believe that these three criteria are very important if we want to make the Serbian state modern in terms of forming a government, unless you show willingness to correct this proposal to a large extent, we will not vote in favour of this proposal of the ministry law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u218	The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, as an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u219	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to my previous colleague. I can say that there must have been a lot of effort to make a new concept of the Ministry Act. If you have submitted 38 amendments, your proposal would probably be feasible and acceptable that Serbia, when reforming the state administration, has not lost 12 years. The first intensities were to transfer certain competences held by the ministries or various authorities of the state administration to state agencies. Was that appropriate for our economic moment? We don't think so. But to make evil even bigger, state agencies were founded, they were passed on to various responsibilities and the matter was worse, in these agencies they were not placed as managers by experts, regardless of political membership, but in most cases only politically-like managers. Not capable, but politically similar. Then we came to the fact that these state agencies simply served themselves and nothing else. At one point we even had a state agency working on the establishment of state agencies, so that it would no longer be established by law. That's where we came from. We spent 12 years. We spent a lot of money on those agencies, and the results were gone. In developed legal systems, that would be possible. You have a state agency where only professionals work, it's the ministry and the minister who determines the strategy, descends to the state agency and the state agency executes it. Or, if it is a long-term strategy, the ministry deals exclusively with how to implement this strategy and by giving instructions to state agencies. Like this, a lot of time has been lost for new experiments. Serbia has no time. In my opinion, if we are to bring state and affairs to our place, since it is the minister who is responsible for the work of his ministry in front of the National Assembly, as well as before the MPs who are members of the sovereignty of the citizens, then it is necessary to give him certain powers to transfer those programme objectives set out by his ministry or by the Prime Minister to a particular ministry, and indeed achieves. Based more on the state agencies that we have shown as a very expensive and very unsuccessful project, we can leave for some other time. Then your bill and your amendments would be acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u220	Thank you. National MP Sasa Mirkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u221	Article 108: “The President of the National Assembly is ageing at the meeting of the National Assembly. ” At this point, it is you, and you allow MPs such as Mr Stefanovic, to throw them out of place. Whether it's last or last, it doesn't matter. They need to know what they were doing in the previous period of time. Don't make fun of yourself. They had a prime minister in the past four years, 108, Mr. Cvetkovic, who was the least concerned about flood floods and flood defenses. That's what they left us to worry about, and now we have to watch how to solve all these things that have been clouded in the past time period. So no one has the right, and at least Mr Stefanovic, to throw you out of place, because it violates the Rules of Procedure, and so do you, who did not warn him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u222	Mr. Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u223	Article 107. I think it is extremely inappropriate, if you already report after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to talk about Mirk Cvetkovic or Bork Stefanovic. Mirko Cvetkovic has not been Prime Minister for two years. You've had the worst government in the 21st century for two years. You don't have any results. You convince us now that you're making a fantastic government, and in these two years, you don't have any results. You inherited from us 11 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, and in 2000 there was half a billion. Each year, more than one billion euros were in the budget, i.e. foreign reserves. Today, when it shrinks, you're talking about Mirk Cvetkovic. Please, bring this session to an end properly, because this really doesn't make sense. Most people terrorize the minority.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u224	Here you go, Borislav Stefanovic. We only have Mr. Zoran Babic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Zoran Babic, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u225	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the spirit of parliamentary practice, I was prepared to settle this time. If Mr. Stefanovic made a call on the Rules of Procedure or any other basis, I think you should have given him your word. I listened carefully today to the discussion and argument of all the MPs. I am grateful to my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group for the good, valid, well-founded arguments that need to be supported by this Government Act, this Ministry Act. I am also grateful to other MPs, including critics, because these criticisms have convinced me that I really believe that on Saturday, when I suppose it will be Voting Day and when we will exhaust the discussion in particular, that 250 MPs will vote. I appreciate Mr Pavicevic's opinion and attitude and I think it is a parliamentary practice, that all amendments should be discussed, that they should not be rejected only because they come from another side. But somehow between those 38 amendments and those nine ministries, I guess at least eight amendments will be for erasing some ministries, so in all that, I don't think we have much room to talk about. No one denied the fact that this is the Law on Government and the Law on Ministry and that in Serbia's recent parliamentary history, no government was formed faster, although someone would say – well, you had a majority, you could have done it faster. Yes, but it is a responsibility to find the optimum, it is a responsibility to say honestly, responsible for the state of our society, in what state our public finances are in. It is irresponsible and politically blinded to say -- the worst government, without results, because this government, the outgoing one, has made bold political decisions, and a Brussels deal that took courage, will, wisdom. It took responsibility for those who are in that government, but also in our country most responsible and were not afraid to put their integrity and their reputation on the line by making this Brussels agreement, because they did not want to send a reference, as the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic sent. They went the most responsible. It is irresponsible to say that this government had no results, if we got, I don't want to say get, deserve a date for starting negotiations. I wouldn't want to spend much more time counting on the values of the new, good, created over the past two years. However, the SNS did not want to close its eyes to the fact that it is difficult to live in Serbia, that unemployment is at an extremely high level, that public finances are in the same state they are in and that a strong front of people who will accept responsibility and enter reforms without worrying about the political consequences of these reforms, because the citizens of Serbia, the same ones who sent us here, are the same ones who may not have gone to elections on 16 March or voted for other options. For SNS, Serbian citizens are Serbian citizens, there is no first, second row. We look at Serbia as the only country because we don't have another, we look at the public administration, we see the government as a place where we'll roll our sleeves, where we'll start and work with full strength. I have not heard the argument and that this is not the smallest government in Serbia's history. I didn't hear it was someone, and when he ran some governments or was in a position to form a nine, ten ministry government, that he did something like that. I'd rather talk about that argument than about the wishes of a goldfish or Santa Claus. As for the law amending the Government Act, I will repeat what I said a few hours ago. Read the article by member, attitude by attitude, very patiently. The formation of a council, which has the right of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, does not mean increasing the administration, does not mean spending, does not mean new salaries, does not mean political and friendly fostering that has been so well insulted in our society. So we want more experts and the SNS is open to people of knowledge, of reputation, of integrity. I remember the controversy in this room when we announced that we wanted to hire foreigners in the RS government. And then the dust went up, and then some people in this room said -- we don't need them, we need young people, we need people who have gone away, they're educated, they've acquired knowledge abroad. And then we listened to them, and then the government of RS entered young Lazar Krstic, and that wasn't good enough either, because it didn't match probably the thickness of Lazar Krstic's beard or why he was so young. You know, when someone like the Muppet Show sits on that balcony and he's always guilty of someone and keeps getting something wrong with him and ideas out of nowhere. And the realization that was when they were able to be on that stage is nothing. (Dear Sutanovac: And who is the Muppet Show?) I won't complain, Mr. Chairman, but I think it's enough that we're not on the street, we're not calling the Ukrainian scenario. (Chairman: Please, Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw away. ) (Dragan Šutanovac: What Muppet Show? We don’t call for a shoe toss, although I risk someone throwing a shoe at me. But as I patiently listened to all the speakers today, so I expect, in accordance with parliamentary practice, according to beautiful, domestic, domestic education, not to throw it away. I think it's one minimum we can achieve in this room. If, and I've heard one argument to interfere with jurisdiction, related to the exploitation of sand, gravel and cheddar, so if we've missed only sand, gravel and schuder with this ministry law, there's another reason to vote, in full capacity, with all 250 MPs for such a law on ministries, because it's only a brother-in-law, gravel and sand something where jurisdiction is mixed. I don't want to go back in time, and I don't want to, because it doesn't live in the past. Because when you walk down the street with your head upside down, you can only risk being run over by a car. The Serbian Progressive Party is also called the Serbian Progressive Party for looking ahead, because we are creating a future, but we are learning lessons from the past. We learn lessons when each minister had his own ministry, his own feud. We're taking lessons from the government where no one was allowed to interfere. We're taking lessons from governments where public enterprises were party, for employment, for fostering. We don't want it all. We're changing all that with a law like this. That is why, as Mr Martinovic said nicely -- all public enterprises under one ministry, under the Ministry of Economy. The economy is a public sector, businesses and a real sector. Create conditions equally for operation, because the state cannot and must no longer be the greatest and only employer. Young people must not view the municipality, the ministry or any public enterprise as the only place to work. Yes, but not on the basis of the party's book, not on the basis of the godmother, not on the basis of familiarity, but on the basis of expertise and needs. Everyone else in the real sector, but to this real sector, that economy needs to create conditions. As much as someone wants to dissuade and make fun of the office for quick answers, we're going to pass a law on the office for quick answers. Is that what they're going to call themselves or something else? He'll call himself, he'll have office office office for quick answers. No investor, no citizen, no businessman must ever break the thresholds, never from the counter to the counter, ever be in a position to ask for or expect corruption, bribe or anything. Everyone has to and is expected to do their job. Ministers, of course, must not and this ministry law is clearly defined, should not and should not only take care of their own or public enterprises in their own sector. Ministers form an atmosphere that is equal to business and public enterprises and the real sector. They're taking care of it, not how it's gonna fill public enterprises. There were some ugly words here, some misunderstandings. I can say that as an engineer maybe I don't understand all the legal terms and I'm not ashamed to ask, I'm not ashamed to say – I don't know, but I'm willing to study. But it's bad when a lawyer who needs to know doesn't understand what the public policy secretariat means, doesn't understand what it means to control all government acts and their consistency, doesn't understand that the government has to work as one team, one soul, equally. It's a team that wins the champion league. That's the government we're gonna get on Sunday. These are the ministries that are defined by this law on ministries. That is why the SNS, as one law has passed as quickly as possible, will break through and win and raise another scale, and I am sure that the government will experience the greatest possible support in Parliament on Sunday, but what is more important, among the citizens of Serbia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u226	Thank you, Mr. Granny. National MP Sasa Mirkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u227	Mr. Chairman, you've broken the Rules of Procedure again. A reminder is given to a people's messenger who addresses the other People's Messenger directly. At this point, Mr. Sutanovac did it, and you didn't warn him, and you broke the Rules of Procedure. Please, I don't know how long we listen to sermons, we will work for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, but we will also not suffer that the minority, in this case individuals from DS or NDS, don't even know which party Mr. Sutanovac belongs to, and please take care of the order at the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u228	Thank you. The People's MP, Mr. Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u229	I don't think you had a good session today, unfortunately. I'm really sorry you started out like that as vice president of the Serbian Parliament, but you had to react. Article 107. - all MPs are obliged to address one another with respect... (President: Mr. Sutanovac, you must quote the member you are referring to. Here you go. So, all Members of Parliament are in charge... Now you have a duty to warn people who make noise. So, when MP Babic in this House recognizes someone from the Muppet Show, it can only be in case he looks himself in the face, as you said yesterday. When you don't respond to that, and that doesn't bother Mr. Markovic, I apologize, he's a new MP, how do you think we work here as a minority with you who are most and who have understanding of such nonsense being spoken here? We've been listening all day about the period until 2012, with a limit since 2000. You guys were in power before 2000, so you forgot it. You left half a billion at the NBS foreign reserve, and we left you 11 billion. We respect each other here completely and then some Muppet Show and some insults. Why is that, Mr. Granny? For what? Has anyone offended you? Incorrectly completely. There's a dozen of us here, and you're 200, so appreciate that. I told you that and the other day, we want to be a constructive opposition, and today we're talking about things, not shotguns, sand and these forms, and I don't know what else was interesting to you, we're talking about Serbia's future, first of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u230	The word is Mr. Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u231	I'm sorry, Mr. Sutanovac, that you didn't listen carefully enough. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Abuse of the Rules of Procedure. [[Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Can't replica the Rules of Procedure.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u232	Mr. Sutanovac, you also abuse the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Grandmother, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u233	I'm advertising Article 107. The dignity of the National Assembly is injured if we do not listen well enough to each other. Maybe that dignity is even worse broken if we don't even listen to our party colleagues. The brother-in-law, gravel, was used by a colleague of Gordana Komic. (Dear Shutanovac, from the scene: not true.) Yes, take a stenogram, several times. I don't see any connection to the shapes or the gravel. I think someone who's a machine engineer should make these connections and differences. But not listening well enough colleagues is a humiliated dignity of the National Assembly. I don't understand just one thing, the style figure "Mapet Show" and the individual characters. Why didn't anyone find themselves offended? Why didn't anyone find themselves through a guy like that? Why did everyone think of it as a figure of speech, except for someone who found himself in all of it, recognized it? I don't know, I didn't direct anyone that way and I don't see what could be vulgar or bad about it. But even so, why does someone recognize themselves in all this?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u234	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u235	I'm sorry, Your Honor, you've had to react. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says that during the speech of the MP or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. Mr. Sutanovac spoke to Mr. Babic extremely inappropriately, in the way of Bata Trlaja. It really worked that way. I would really ask him, first of all, to warn him, and on the other hand to realize that this is still the National Assembly, not the star Kaldrma where he grew up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u236	The word is Mr. Sasa Mirkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u237	Chairman, I'm advertising Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Mr. Sutanovac here tells us fairy tales that he once dreamed or read "Brothers Grimm", and he does not know how to recapture everything that was done in the previous government he participated in. He doesn't know how to look behind him, see what Serbia looks like after their government. After all, it is a reflection of their current situation in their parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u238	The word is Mr. Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u239	If anyone has the right to take a little detour from the Rules of Procedure, it'll be a dozen of us more than you 200. If I were to say now that there's a figure of style in a cartoon as the hippo horses play ballet, someone might recognize another MP, but I'm never going to say it. Do you understand? So that's not what you do. There are no figures that can offend anyone in this House. On the other hand, when false is told, you must react again. Mr. Arsic, in his life-exposure, interpreting this law, also mentioned the brother-in-law, and the sand, and the shapes that rot along the road in the rain, and the Fireman and the springs. I listened very carefully. Mr. Granny, you were at lunch then.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u240	Mr. Sutanovac, don't speak to another MP. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I have the right to a replica, since Mr Babic directly mentioned me in his speech. I've tried to make one serious criticism against the draft ministry law, and here in this replica I'd like to say three more things. One thing is: I am very sorry to hear from the head of the largest parliamentary group in this assembly that there will be no room to discuss our amendments to this bill. I recorded it, we can check it out, if anyone claims it wasn't said. I'm sorry if that's what I said, and I wrote it like that, despite our serious work on this, prepared 38 amendments to make this bill, in our understanding, improved. I'm sorry to hear now that I hear the disdain of the congregation's majority, and I'm trying to say what's true and true. The second thing that is mentioned here is that, said Mr. Arsic, Mr. Babic, also, that Serbia has missed many chances and that because Serbia has missed many chances in the past 12 years, we cannot now adopt this proposal of nine ministries and 10 members, but we have to wait for another time. I wonder as a reasonable man why you decided to lose one chance? This was a chance. The third thing, purely because of precision, when we talk about the previous 12 years, 13 years, 14 years, in my court, there was a period in this country that suggested a strong reform course and that was the period from 2000 to 2004. With respect to that period, I think we should all act in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u242	Thank you. National MP Zoran Babic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u243	I'll be very brief. I'd prefer to talk in a way -- here, when we were on the occasion, we formed a government of ten ministries, so we suggest something like that to you, but you're not. And then when you ran, and then when you had the chance, and when you could have such a policy and such an idea to apply, you didn't apply it. You waved and you said yes, we suggested that with 16, the number of ministries was reduced to nine. The Serbian Progressive Party does not give up on the concept of the least government, which you have had the opportunity to do, and many after you have had the opportunity to form it, but you have not formed it. Therefore, the Serbian Progressive Party does not give up on the concept of the least, the most economical government, the government that made life, the government that made needs, the government that wants strong and the sooner to deal with all the challenges of the future, with all the reforms, and that is what the Serbian Progressive Party wants. We want to continue our fight against corruption and crime, and that's where you didn't trust us. And there you are, and when we say, we'll deal with crime and corruption, you said yes, but you won't be allowed to go to the strongest. So you shut up when your strongest were processed. That's when you shut up. Then you said no, but you don't want coalition partners, and then some people who are responsible for Galennica ended up where they ended up. And then you didn't believe us, you said -- you won't fight your own, so this National Assembly a few months ago, in a difficult day for the Serbian Progressive Party, lifted the immunity of Dragan Tomic, an MP for the Serbian Progressive Party because of the "Universal Bank". All the doubts that have been cast into our faces over the past two years, you said, "You will not bring Saric to justice, so here he is, brought to justice." Everything you've thrown in our face for the past two years, we've disproved you. That is why I call on you to trust us for the first time in your life, because Serbia trusts us. This is the smallest government, this is the reform government, this is the government that will ensure a normal and decent life in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u244	National MP Borislav Stefanovic, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u245	Here's to this minute and a half, after all we've heard, after a new tone and thunderous applause, and the old saying is, when the strongest applause dies freedom. I have to tell you gentlemen that today we are coming to the end of a debate on two laws that are fundamentally unchanged, except for the introduction of a system in which future Prime Minister Vukic will have advice to put future ministers in a pocket that will mean nothing, except that you are creating a new administration in which you will hire party personnel and besides not answering one question, including that -- why do you have only one ministry less and that is the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija? Having a smaller government is certainly commendable, because it is something that can prove to be a saving, but it absolutely does not guarantee your efficiency. If your efficiency is that you're avoiding something strange in your discussions that you've been in power for two years. You have a time hole looking in your heads and then when you talk you somehow stop at 2013 and 2014, and then we hear some roars from Timok, there on the left side of the man who in the city government in Zajecar gave, imagine, private TV money, to his television. And then now he's giving us a lecture.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u246	Mr. Stefanovic, take care of the dignity of the Assembly, because I will take your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u247	Why? Who have I offended?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u248	You're out of time. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I am almost done. Please, who I insulted. I haven't finished the presentation yet. ) Mr Veroljub Arsic has a word as a proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank all my fellow Members of Parliament who wanted to discuss the proposals of the laws on the agenda today. I thank all the MPs who have submitted the amendments that we are going to examine very carefully. I also thank those people's MPs who laughed because the arches are being wasted and the natural treasures of the Republic of Serbia are ruining. This proves the relationship they had with the property and with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia while they were in power and nothing more. It's probably based on that principle -- full of hungry people don't believe it, because someone to earn a lot of money has to leave some citizens without drinking water. That's why it's so nice to live on the Sorceress where there's plenty of drinking water, and inside, it doesn't matter. As for 2012, 2013, in 2014, just to remind me, the rate of dinars today is four dinars lower than in 2012, and no 4.5 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves were spent on defending the dinar course, which rose by 50% for four years from 2008 to 2012. What are the other results of this government? Inflation in 2012 was 2.2%. I can't say it's a failure and I call on those who think they'd better show their results because we've all been more or less in this room in power. GDP growth in 2013 is 3.5%. The increase in unemployment from 27% to 22%, 23%, has been stopped. An increase in the country's reputation abroad. Getting the starting date of the EU accession negotiations. Fighting organized crime and corruption. A recognised reform of the judiciary by international institutions dealing with judicial reform. Unlike the reform of the judiciary that failed, well from the reform, a reform that also failed. These are the results of the government that was up to this election in power. Is that enough? It's not. Can you do better? Always. Can we do more? He has to. That's why we went to the election. Serbia needs much faster reforms. Serbia needs construction of state institutions. Serbia needs economic stability, development, increased employment, an increase in citizens' living standards. We believe that these results of the previous government are one good basis for the work of the future government, and that the new government law, i.e. the ministries, will be one good foundation for the new Government of the Republic of Serbia to achieve its programme objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-24-0.u250	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Ministrys and on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Government. The session will be held on Saturday at 10:00 p.m.
