ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2225	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 136 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic, Dr Milana Nikolic, Aleksandar Jablanovic, Milovan Drecun, Olgica Batic and Zika Gojkovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of a joint single search on the proposals of the laws referred to in points 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda, in addition to the representative of Ivica Dačić, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Nebojša Stefanović, Minister of Interior and Prof. Dr Snezana Bogosavljevic-Boskovic, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, I have called for the members to attend and: Dragan Momčilović, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Marina Ivanovic, Minister and Head of the Department of Human Rights and Environmental Protection at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Igor Perić, Head of the Bureau of International Cooperation and European Integration in the Office of Interior Minister of the Interior, Milan Dimitrijevic, Head of the Department for International Labour Affairs and Social Affairs of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Macedonia, Minister of the Republic of Macedonia, Minister of the Republic of Macedonia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals of the law from point. 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10th agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals of the law at issue. 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on visa waiver for nationals of the two countries; Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Laos on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports; Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual representation in the provision of consular protection and services in third countries; Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement on operational and strategic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office and the Proposal for a Law confirming the amendment to Article 20(1). Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs Snezana Bogosavljevic-Boskovic, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2226	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of the legislation package on the agenda today, I would just like to brief you on the Law confirming the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office. So in 2008, the Republic of Serbia signed a Strategic Co-operation Agreement with Europol, which the National Assembly confirmed in May 2009, when it began to apply. Thus, although still without EU candidate status, the Republic of Serbia is establishing co-operation with Member States operating through Europe in preventing, detecting, suppressing and investigating serious forms of international crime, sharing strategic and technical information. In agreement, there is a continuous exchange of expertise. The members of the ministry regularly attend the meetings organised by Europol, and Europe's financial contribution to a joint action that has led to the discovery of an organised crime group dealing with counterfeiting money is negligible. Based on the established professional co-operation based on the Strategic Co-operation Agreement, the Republic of Serbia has continued a number of activities to create conditions for its expansion and has established an exchange of personal data, i.e. operational police data. To that end, a road map has been developed in the coming years to meet the conditions for starting negotiations with Europe for the conclusion of an operational agreement and bilateral agreements with Europe have been concluded, which have created technical conditions for the exchange of data. The efforts made resulted in a positive report by Europe, after which conditions were created for the start of negotiations on the conclusion of an operational agreement. The operational agreement in front of MPs of the National Assembly was signed in January 2014, following a Memorandum of Understanding on the secrecy and security of data in February 2014. The signed operational agreement creates even stronger co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and EU Member States in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime, whose backbone is primarily the exchange of data. Data exchange will take place through strictly envisaged procedures, respecting principles and regulations regarding human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. Confirmation of this agreement will allow Serbian citizens a higher degree of security in the area of justice, freedom and security by preventing and curbing crime, through more intensive co-operation between the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia and Europe. A timely approach to accurate and up-to-date data and their mutual exchange between the Republic of Serbia and EU Member States, along with the already existing information exchange mechanism with Interpol, will allow the Republic of Serbia to continue its successful detection, prevention and investigation into criminal activities. Also, the methodology of handling international operational police co-operation with Europol and the envisaged procedures allow the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia to take them in emergency cases, while ensuring the necessary level of confidentiality in the exchange of data. It is very important to point out that the operational agreement, which is the subject of the approval of the National Assembly, takes a significant place in the process of negotiating the Republic of Serbia's EU accession, within one of the two chapters that stand out as the most important on the road, chapters 24 – freedom, justice and security. Given that the first phase of the process's analysis of the situation for Chapter 24 was completed in 2013, the European Commission submitted a report that, once adopted by the Member States, would provide a mandatory guideline to plan all future activities in the process of Eurointegration. In that report, police co-operation and the fight against organised crime were identified as priority areas for the Republic of Serbia, and as one of the mandatory places to be met on the path of harmonisation of the legal system and the establishment of capacity to assume obligations imposed by membership in the European Organisation, i.e. management to ensure implementation of the operational agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2227	Thank you. Do the officials of the committee want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2228	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, I believe he is a injured member of 27, as well as a member of 103. Namely, Article 27 and Article 103 concern the way in which a session is conducted and injured by the Rules of Procedure. Today, if someone is not known, it is on the agenda of ratification, i.e. confirmation of the Agreement with the Government of Mongolia, the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Laos, the Government of Montenegro and the European Police Office. It would be all right if the Minister of Agriculture didn't sit here today. I ask you all together – what does the Minister of Agriculture have to do with the Agreement with the Government of the Republic of Laos? What can they tell us if we ask any questions about the current political situation in Laos and is this a political situation that creates conditions for signing this agreement? Of course, she won't be able to tell us anything because she read the prepared speech. It was all right for the Foreign Minister, Mr Dacic, to be replaced in this place by someone who knows this area so much. However, no, it was replaced by the agriculture minister. Do you know why? Because it's from the SPS quota. It speaks of the way this government works, the functioning of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2229	Time. No injured member 27. I will ignore your qualifications on the minister's ability to participate in this session. I hope she does, too. The government has informed us that the government's representative will be at this session right now Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. She is a member of the government, like all other ministers and her qualifications, there should be no doubt that she will also answer you about the political situation in Laos. I hope you're satisfied. Do you want us to make a statement about this breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: No. I thank you. The word has a master's degree, Djordje Kosanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2230	Dear Minister, President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are facing today a joint single-species review of the draft law confirming the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office, two draft laws confirming the abolition of visas between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Laos, then, the Agreement on mutual representation and the provision of consular protection and services to third countries between Serbia and Montenegro and the proposal for a law confirming amendments to Article 20(1). Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. At the very beginning, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the aforementioned draft laws. First, this agreement for Europol, the European Police Office, establishes a secure channel of communication for the exchange of data between Belgrade and the Central Police Organisation in The Hague. In 2008, Serbia signed a Strategic Co-operation Agreement with Europol, which the Serbian parliament confirmed in May 2009 and until this year with Europol, the competent authorities of Serbia worked to establish mechanisms and technical details on achieving the strategic objective of the agreement, therefore, to move to an operational system. Practically, the operational system of co-operation was defined precisely in this agreement signed in Belgrade early this year. Confirmation of this agreement allows full co-operation with the European Police Office, which includes the exchange of operational data. On the other hand, the agreement is important and its application will give a green light to continue negotiations with the EU, Chapter 24, concerning freedom, rights and security. Also, the signing of the Agreement creates even stronger co-operation with the EU in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and international crime. The operational partner of the European Police Office is certainly not only members of the EU, but also the US, Canada, Colombia. But on the other hand, the strategic partner is Russia, which will soon become an operational partner. The agreement is proof that Serbia has reached that level that will allow an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Europol to be implemented with the EU police member states and so far Serbia has participated with some of them only on call. As for the draft law on the signing of two agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia and the People's Democratic Republic of Laos on the abolition of visas for citizens and holders of diplomatic and official passports, I will only tell you that any member of the Government can really represent here. It should be said that in international relations, the conclusion of bilateral agreements which abolish visas is considered a significant step towards creating as favourable conditions as possible for further improving political relations and versatile co-operation in economic, cultural, scientific and other fields of international interest and importance. Speaking first of all about Mongolia and Serbia's co-operation, the agreement allows for the free movement of two peoples and the improvement of economic co-operation. What surprised me, preparing this topic, Mongolia has a very dynamic economic development and the country's economic growth is among the largest in the world. Since 2006-2010, the country's economy has grown by a rate of 8 to 10%, thanks to improvements in the area of agriculture, mining and service activities. In 2011, amazing data, growth in Mongolia was 21% thanks to primarily mining, which now accounts for 80% of the country's exports. Economists estimate that in 2014 and over the next 10 years, economic growth will be at 14%. If I tell you that one China has had in the last two decades an economic growth that is smaller than Mongolia, then we can assume what we can expect from Mongolia. On the other hand, when we talk about this, Mongolia is interested in co-operation with Serbia in the fields of construction, infrastructure, culture, education, science and development technologies. Speaking of an agreement with the Democratic Republic of Laos, it should be said that Serbia and Laos have traditionally good co-operation that can be promoted primarily in the area of the economy. What is important, Laos has a low unemployment rate, through reforms has reduced poverty and improved industry and economy. What I said earlier is important and what every minister here says about Laos, this country has projects that allow it to finance agricultural production better and support small and medium-sized enterprises, which can be a really good example for Serbia. Also important is the principled support of Serbia by Laos on the subject of KIM. As regards the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual representation in providing consular protection and services to third countries, it was signed in Podgorica in April 2013, with a desire to develop and improve consular co-operation and to ensure and facilitate the protection of the rights and interests of the citizens of both countries. Practically, under consular protection and the provision of services within the meaning of this Agreement, it is also considered to provide assistance in the event of serious illness and death, violence and trafficking of people, natural disasters, crisis situations, war facts, terrorist acts, issuing travel documents for travel to the country of origin, providing international, legal and financial assistance and issuing visas. This agreement is a continuation of good bilateral co-operation between Serbia and Montenegro, and I will not mention how much agreement we have had with Montenegro so far. It should also be mentioned that the trade between Serbia and Montenegro is about a billion dollars, with a significant surplus on the Serbian side, so that Montenegro is fifth in Serbia's overall exchange in 2013. The achieved imports from Montenegro in 2013 placed this country 29th. Economic co-operation between the two countries is on the rise line and there is great potential for a joint appearance in markets in different sectors of the economy. At the very end, the JS parliamentary group in Voting Day will support both these proposals that I have talked about today and no less important proposal for a law confirming the amendment to Article 20(1). A convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, which my colleague from JS will talk about a little bit later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2231	The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2232	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the Presidency, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present on behalf of the SVM our vision of the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, so-called The Cedaw Convention. This Convention was adopted in 1979 and entered into force in 1981. Its provisions establish equality between men and women in all fields, i.e. as regards their rights, both economic, cultural, social, social, social, political rights. Of course, what is important is measures to monitor the achievement of equality between men and women in these mentioned areas. This Convention is definitely the first international legal instrument to ensure equality between men and women. In addition to this Convention, an option protocol was adopted in 1999, which came into force at the end of 2000. The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia ratified the Convention immediately, very early in 1981, and the Republic of Serbia, as a subsystem of all previous states, has inherited these obligations since 2001 and the Optual Protocol since 2002. So much for history. What does that mean? The Republic of Serbia has an obligation to submit periodic reports to the Committee for the Elimination of Women's Discrimination on its application. We've already submitted the first, second and third periodic reports. What is fresh is that as a Member State last year, the Republic of Serbia, in July 2013, submitted a second and third periodic report on the application of the CEDAW Convention for the period from 2007 to 2009. After considering this periodic report, as well as answering additional questions provided by members of our delegation, the Committee for the Elimination of Discrimination of Women has reached final observations. This is important because the Republic of Serbia, as a member of this Convention, until the next periodic report, expected sometime in the summer of July 2017, is under the obligation to adhere to these final observations, as well as concrete recommendations made by the Committee for the Elimination of Women's Discrimination. The Committee, among other things, encourages the Member State, the Republic of Serbia, to accept amendments and additions to Article 20(1) as soon as possible. Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. This amendment is exactly what we're discussing today and who we're about to adopt these days, which SVM supports. This amendment is of a technical nature and refers to the time of the meeting of the Committee, i.e. it goes in the direction that the time of the meeting of the Committee and the debates are not tied to those 15 days or two weeks, but that it can be extended if there is a need for it. The question arises – why is this significant, why should the time of the meeting be long? Because the topics discussed at these meetings are extremely important and it takes extra time to discuss them. Let me visually, probably all of this was relatively dry, and by examples explain what these topics are and why this is important to us. For example, the Committee between these recommendations and the conclusions recommends that the Member State raise awareness of the importance of education as human rights and education as a basis for empowering women and girls. What is also extremely important, the Committee encourages a Member State to improve access to quality health care and healthcare services and to ensure the efficiency of law enforcement and policies providing the right to compulsory health insurance and free services. Getting ready for this exposure and looking for data in my home barometer I encountered some very interesting research that was conducted both in 2006 and in 2012. If we compare these studies, and it is mostly women's health, but it is encouraging for men to compare these two years and these studies increase the number of those who go to a doctor preventively, not only when they are sick or sick. As for women, it is encouraging and positive that the number of women who regularly go to gynecologists is increasing, and the percentage of women who go to gynecologists is almost never, and only when they have to, as they say. So the data confirms, it's very encouraging, that it's a positive trend change, and that more attention is given to prevention. It is known that the two most common causes of women's illness and death, on the one hand cardiovascular disease, are still, on the other hand, malignancies. They can be prevented by certain steps both primary and secondary preventions. Primary prevention would mean promotion of health and healthy lifestyles, and secondary prevention of early detection of diseases especially reproductive diseases. Therefore, women’s health care programmes must put priority on health promotion and disease prevention measures. We have a National Strategy to improve women's position, improve gender equality, and it really foresees work to improve women's reproductive health through various programmes such as early detection programmes for uterine cancer, or breast cancer. Member States under this Convention, so this is just a few of the most significant examples, should take appropriate steps to include family education and proper understanding of motherhood, roles of motherhood, motherhood as a social role and recognition of the shared responsibility of men and women in raising and developing children. So, the issue of equal parenting, meaning that in all cases, of course, they must primarily take care of the interests of the child. The availability of specific information in the field of education should also be taken into account in order to help ensure the health and well-being of the family, but including information and advice on family planning, which is also a major problem with us. The Committee positively assessed what the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, as well as the Law on Gender Equality, was adopted in 2009. Although the constitution has already banned gender-based discrimination, these laws also prohibit gender-based discrimination, and of course the Committee found and commended the Republic of Serbia. However, the Committee, on the other hand, is concerned that so far in court disputes do not directly apply the Convention as well as adequate domestic legislation, i.e. there are no women who have sought the protection of equality rights, on the prohibition of discrimination, on the basis of these provisions. The most likely explanation for this is simple lack of information, both women themselves both lawyers, judges, prosecutors. It is therefore really important to raise women's awareness of their rights to the Convention and their actions under the option protocol. Furthermore, it is necessary to ensure both early and effective implementation of the mentioned and other anti-discrimination laws and to take adequate measures to raise awareness to the general public on these laws and on these topics. The Committee, as I mentioned, identified the existence of significant national strategies and action plans, including the National Strategy for improving women's position, improving gender equality relating to the period 2009 to 2015 and the National Action Plan for the implementation of this strategy. However, there is concern and we have heard this from certain government representatives that unfortunately there are no adequate financial resources provided for the implementation of this strategy, i.e. the Action Plan in practice and what is a major problem that many strategies are not harmonised and that the vast majority of our national strategies and their action plans are not in line with local strategies and action plans. Unfortunately, there are no mechanisms that would coordinate, monitor and evaluate their effective application and regularly report on the implementation of these strategies. The Committee, another extremely important topic, found that we adopted a National Strategy to prevent violence against women in the family in partnership in 2011. However, the Committee remains concerned that, unfortunately, the number of victims of various forms of violence, mental, physical, verbal, sexual, economic violence, is growing in practice. What's even bigger is that the numbers, the number of police interventions, the number of criminal charges filed and the number convicted of domestic violence against women differ. According to studies, the number of women who suffer mental violence, such physical violence from family members who are threatened by violence, and in a large percentage of 92% of cases, is a partner, former, present, with whom they are either married or in a community. We therefore feel that it is necessary to continue to make a great effort to raise awareness to the public about the problem of domestic violence, as well as to apply the legislative measures adopted and to be known to the general public, as well as to help victims because many victims still do not know who to turn to. Let me get this straight. In addition to appropriate measures and laws, it is important to ensure that they are applied in practice in a satisfactory manner. In the hope that in the next few years, in the next period, we will end as much of the work that remains for us as the obligations of these conventions, which we will all agree on, I would like to remind all of you that RS is obliged to submit the next periodic report in July 2017. The Union of Duchy Hungarians supports the amendment to the aforementioned Convention. In the voting day, we will vote on both this amendment and the addition, as well as on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2233	The word is Milena Bycanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2234	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, fellow MPs, here are the nice topics, I would simply say, we have these five proposals ahead of us. I wouldn't read it again now, because of course we're all in preparation for a session with that, colleagues who spoke before me, they mentioned it. What I see in the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Mongolia and the People's Democratic Republic of Laos, I simply see one good intention to facilitate the ties of Serbia and all of us living here with that world that is a geographical distance to us, but I simply believe that the time is coming when only to say a set of geographical distances will be absolutely unchangeable and visible. Since the world is networked in different ways, we are a very serious part of this world, because I really believe that these are great assumptions for establishing and expanding co-operation, of course, in the plan of the economy, as well as on the agenda of culture, education, and if these laws, that is to say, by adopting these laws, we allow at least one young man who is curious to go a long way and let's say, in the famous beautiful Mongolia, we will make him very happy, and therefore the experience that he has brought here will be useful to all of us. As for the proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual representation, providing consular services, I think this is a very good one, before one moment it was an initiative, the thinking of some people, now translated into the bill. Why do I think she's okay? Because by simply reading this material that we've received, I've seen that this protocol, or this bill on joint consular representations and their activities, first of all, I'm going to say to myself, of course, without any persuasive sense, to ordinary people, that I'm simply one of them, that in the various unpleasant situations in which they can be found, to get the adequate assistance of the consular representation that is present there. Of course, ties between Serbia and Montenegro are historic and close. I think this will be a way to strengthen them on the one hand, and on the other hand simply so that both the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro show once again a responsible relationship with their citizens, regardless of whether they are in a very unfavourable situation in their country of origin or in the territory of a third country, where they are inexplicably in need of health, legal, any other help that perhaps their state cannot provide at that time, because there is simply no consular representation. This is one measure that has also a positive financial effect in any case, and I believe that it will have a major impact on the indirect and further humanisation of the relationship between people in this region, because it truly believes that consuls in these consular representations will be very serious about their work, very seriously show concern for those people, those citizens who are in trouble and, of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the task of seriously dealing with and the quality of the staff that are in such very important functions. The proposal for a law to confirm an agreement on operational and strategic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office, of course, I understood it and what is key, which I would simply like to say is that, of course, all the links we create with Europe and all the links we create with European institutions contribute not only to the further integration of Serbia on the road that we have already made for many years, but primarily to solve and help solve an extremely important issue, which is a matter of security. The issue of security is one of the fundamental issues that the world is largely concerned with today, a question that is largely world and tormented and all interactions that can be created in this sense and established in one clear legal regulation, in the protection of both sides can contribute, of course, to all the monsters of the modern world that exist now, which I think, somehow, will continue to develop, that they can be discovered, warned, to fight, to educate, and to simply enable the realisation of what is fundamental in the history of civilization, and that is primarily the right to life, and everything further that comes. The fifth is, of course, the proposal for a law on the approval of amendments to Article 20(1). Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. I must say that I was particularly inspired today by preparing to talk about this issue because, no matter how much it has in today's discussion and adoption it has this completely one technical connection, because as a country signatories of the Convention we should give our confirmation of the proposal that the Committee should work longer and than those two weeks it does really are not enough in relation to a large number of countries that are signatories to the Convention compared to a large number of reports that are coming. It's probably not just a question of how many reports are coming in, but it's also a big problem and in the scope of these reports that need to be analyzed, you need to give instructions, which again leads me to think that in all cases about this elimination of all forms of discrimination, women in all ways the world is not good. Obviously, there are very big and serious problems here, and probably we, as an integral part of that world, have our own problems that we have to solve anyway, because, how can I tell you, I don't want to favor one sex against the other. I simply think that this civilization exists in the unity of two individuals, these are male and female sexes that ultimately give up this basic unit called man. I'm going to try to be very careful about exposure, because if I don't show enough responsibility, I can really do it for the best, but I can get into a trap to hurt someone. This is basically a very serious and very gentle subject of great importance. What would I start with? I'd go first of all from what's right for all of us, which is that we're all looking for justice and justice somehow. We have said many times in our lives – it is an injustice, why it happens to me, am I not a human being, why someone has a different relationship with me, in any circumstances. Of course, I don't want to point out that number of circumstances right now. That kind of experience, I'm not going to mention women right now, we all have company. We have this problem as a society. When we talk about this issue of banning women from discrimination, there are things a little more sensitive for the simple reason that every society is formed on the basis of tradition, based on its history, based on its religious pattern and cannot escape from it and should run away from it. Sometimes I like to say – a good tradition is like old love, it's wonderful, but if you've learned something it'll take you away and it'll be a good memory of origin and what it is. Therefore, a difficult issue that is slow to resolve, but which we must never give up on. What is most important to me is that the state, too, is that all institutions show one great human responsibility in the process of making quality decisions that will allow this society to become less vulnerable, more fortunate, and thus more successful. Human rights are innate, they belong to every human being and they are of moral origin and every human being has it by being human. We live in the 21st century, the Declaration of the Rights of Men and Citizens has been brought long ago, and we are so used to having certain rights to simply view them as innate, as those who even think exist independent of the state, and sometimes even in spite of it, and somehow I think that the further development of civilization will actually go that way. However, the claim that every human being has innate human rights is simply pointless if it is not based on the principle that all humans are equal. We come up with something that causes, let me say, further analysis, simply because very often we experience that some are more equal than us. It is our daily experience, and it seems to me that seven women have this specificity that they wear in their nature to experience this inequality much more often. Sometimes someone who makes us this discrimination that we experience, feels hurt and depressed, maybe even doesn't do it on purpose, may not have a plan for it, but simply isn't sensitive enough to what's called the opposite sex, the female being, may be weaker in physical strength, but all of us are characterized by all other unique human traits. Then what's going on with it? Then it happens that, let's say, you have a number of situations in a number of professions where women really suffer great injustices. I would, as I come from the world of education, point out a problem that often happens to women who work there. It's simple, most women work in education, and it's somehow identified as a woman's profession. Simply, a woman is synonym for her mother, mothers are brought up, and then those women who work in education, in some translation sense, even in that sense, we experience them. Then it happens that the teacher gets sick, and if she spends a very long time on sick leave, it's a very common situation where someone who's going to replace her job, but the moment she's supposed to go back, it's very often that parents are very serious about asking that teacher not to change, because the kids are used to it, and then you have to regain your right to your job, to go through a lot of unpleasantness and prove that you're the one who worked until yesterday, who they were most often and very happy with, but simply parents don't want to get into a new risk right now. When it comes to disease, how can I tell you, we get through it somehow, because we're all afraid of disease. It's kind of easier for parents to give in. But there is another question, which is when a teacher goes to pregnancy. It's a very common situation that after returning, a year or two, if it's pregnant first, and then maternity, it's very common to write petitions against a teacher, to petitions to inspections that come to school, and that some school's leadership should prove that it's absolutely legal and justice. But you can't get out of the co-lop of those feelings of parents who are once again worried about what will happen when that famous teacher comes back to them again, whether there will be an expected success in the way they planned it along with their children. Believe me, these are severe traumas and severe humiliations for a woman in education, which women in their female nature are really hard to forget, and absolutely unnecessary. What can contribute, it's a serious education system, a quality in which a parent doesn't even fear whether you're called Mirjana or Milica. It doesn't matter at all, the parent knows that the system is reliable, measurable, quality and that everyone who comes to work will, of course, have that what is necessary for the success of students individually, schools, systems, etc. It's one of the models of how some problem that we define as possible discriminatory behavior can be regulated. By correcting certain parts of the system in general, you make them reliable and strong and create a relationship of trust between the system and the citizens who consume it. The second topic is, of course, whether we as a society have even come to the social importance of motherhood. I set an example of women in education. Of course, absolutely nothing less valuable is the problem of women looking for work. I'm pretty sure we all have someone's experience here, some woman who went looking for a job, and then she got this famous question about whether she's planning an extension of the family, if she's even planning to have a family, etc. Then I wonder why? If the employer has a criteria based on which choice he makes, I guess he should apply that criterion to both his future colleague and his future colleague. Then I've been thinking about something that, how can I tell you, just makes me sad. Is it possible that he always has to dominate just that question of profit? Does this employer always wonder – wait, will my profit be compromised if I go away for a while from this reliable associate, and then I have to look for a new one again, train her, etc.? I think that sometimes simply this issue of profit and this question of respect for human rights differs greatly to the harm of women, although they have invested as much as their fellow men, in education, in expertise, in competences. They had strong support as they were educated, and then the ramp was put on, and it was said, "No, you're not answering me right now, because I don't want that thing that can wait for me in some close period of time." The third thing I'd like to talk about, I really think we're obliged to talk about, is the question of women and the position of women living in the country. Their day of work is as long as the day of day, and so on and so forth. In their household, of course, wages are made in a different way, much harder and harder. In these families children are raised, and rarely in our country, in our beautiful state many women live together with their families in passive areas which are and how far away from some communication connections, from roads that will allow them to reach the doctor in due time when they need a doctor, them or their children. These are women who go tens of miles a day, of course I want to say fathers, but we're just talking about this right now, they're going tens of miles by taking their children to some point. Did society give, I wonder, the same chance for a child, a parent, a mother and a father living in those conditions and someone living under better conditions? I don't think the odds are the same and again because we didn't commit to something, because we didn't seem to have any money, that it wasn't our business, that it didn't matter. Because we haven't realized what it's all about, we've brought someone into a state of discrimination, which in life we're going to translate into a very complicated environment, which can put your life at risk, and we said that the basic right to life is a right. Everything we do, everything we do, that life needs to be supported, and that life needs to be made possible. That's where I'd stick with some of them. That's not even examples. It's just our everyday life. Of course, partner violence and the number of women who have even lost lives are very high and very worrying. In addition to being quite sure that we will understand this convention, or that we will understand why the amendment to Article 20(1) should be adopted, I am quite sure that there is always a good cure to prevent something, to warn something, and to make some changes to the population. Since I come from education, it's always an education for me. Education is, of course, a good cure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2235	You've wasted your time. Thank you. The word is Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2236	President-in-Office, Mrs Gojkovic, distinguished ministers, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, representatives of foreign and internal affairs ministries, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I have a pleasant duty and particularly pleasure to speak before the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, on the proposal for this set of laws. At the very beginning, I would point out that all these laws, all the bill proposals, are very important to our country from the aspect of its further affirmation on the international agenda, but still the process of Eurointegration. In my presentation, I will specifically refer to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual representation in providing consular protection and services in third countries. First of all, I would like to point out that this was only one in a number of concrete results on the plan to establish and improve regional co-operation whose initiator started in 2004 was our leader Boris Tadic. I note that an almost identical law, more specifically an agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, is already being successfully applied, and I know that very well, because I participated as an ambassador to Sarajevo in preparing this agreement. The importance of this agreement is that there is a certain complementarity of the networks of diplomatic and consular representations and although the Republic of Serbia has the most convincing network of consular offices, some diplomatic consular representations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in Islamic countries, are very important to us and there is a certain complementarity. When it comes to the agreement with Montenegro, it should be said at the beginning that it does not have that much use for reasons that Montenegro has a significantly more modest network of diplomatic consular offices, but this agreement is still very important. First of all, this agreement will further improve our country's image on the international agenda, and this agreement will further confirm our role as the so-called systemtegrator in the region, or as some of you like to say, or hear leaders in the region. I sincerely hope that a similar agreement in the area of consular co-operation with the Republic of Macedonia will soon be finalised, but will also begin to realise our idea of forming, under the quotes of joint embassies with neighbouring countries, according to the Nordic model of forming joint embassies. In view of all of this agreement, I am pleased to inform you that our MP group Boris Tadic – The New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia will vote in favour of its adoption, as well as the adoption of two other laws from the same problem that I do not repeat them for who knows which way, is with the Republic of Mongolia on the abolition, the complete abolition of visas and with Laos for holders of diplomatic and official passports. Many of my colleagues discussed bilateral co-operation, mentioned exchanges, etc., I think the consular area is one of the most important areas of foreign policy, diplomacy. That's how historical diplomacy came from the consular area. So we should stick to the subject when we talk about it and just talk about what these agreements bring and the visa waivers are. When it comes to the Law on Confirming an operational and strategic co-operation agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office, I would also like to highlight some of my experiences. At a time of service in Sweden which is well-known, as one of the operators of activity and a country with a leading role in the area in the EU, and Mrs Malston was one of the two law commissioners and she played a major role in abolishing the visa regime for Serbia. During these meetings in Stockholm, the former minister of the Ministry of Interior, we have always received great praise for the moves Serbia has been leading on this plan since 2000 and should be open. This co-operation, as well as other types of co-operation, will be the key to our evolutionary and screening and negotiation. Ms. Minister has stated one thing, and I'm not sure maybe the other, chapters 23 and 24, they can't absolutely get close to the end, they can't close the pages unless we and that segment of co-operation, police co-operation, are satisfied. So far, we are going successfully, so to say, we are pleased that this new government continues with the ideas that we started in 2004. I hope that all of this will be brought to an end, what we started. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2237	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2238	Dear Presidents and fellow Members of the People, Honored Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, we have several international agreements before us and confirmations of the amendments to Article 20(1). Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. The NS parliamentary group will support all four international agreements in a voting day, as well as the Agreement on Operational, Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office and the amendment recommended by the International Committee for Women's Elimination, Discrimination. I believe that the influences of a country and its importance in international relations in addition to its economic and military power and its participation and activity in multilateral and international organisations, as well as the diversity of bilateral contacts. Any bilateral agreement with another country can benefit our country, or above all our citizens. Although some partners can be made less important in the first wave than others and there is no excessive benefit from certain international agreements, I believe that the wealth of one country in the international plan can now be quantified through a large number of applicable agreements on the most different types of co-operation and the abolition of the visa regime for the citizens of the Contracting Parties. In this particular case of the Republic of Serbia and Mongolia on the abolition of the visa regime for the holders of official and diplomatic passports, as well as between the Republic of Serbia and the state of Laos, I think it will help to facilitate the movement of our citizens, and this will also represent a potential possibility of establishing closer economic co-operation with those countries. As for confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual representation in providing consular protection and services in third countries, I would like to set aside two very important things. The first is that regional co-operation for Serbia is very important, that relations between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro are improved over the last two years, and that this agreement is, too, part of a comprehensive saving on the basis of which the rationalisation of our diplomatic and consular network is envisaged, and that it is quite logical to conclude with the Republic of Montenegro such an agreement which is very important because it will allow our citizens in those countries to have the same treatment as the other citizens of those countries and which will provide them with every form of protection and assistance they need. As far as this Agreement on operational and strategic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office is concerned, it does not particularly need to be discussed. It is very important that we sign this agreement, first of all, because we will have access to operational data available to Europe and that it will certainly be of great benefit to our competent authorities in the fight against all forms of organised crime, but also to enable these operational data to be used as part of the prevention of potential threats to terrorist acts. Co-operation with Europe, in addition to accessing operational data, is important, in my opinion and my colleagues from the New Serbia parliamentary group, because it includes and exchanges of expertise, general reports on the situation in this area, which include the results of strategic analyses. We'll also have data on criminal investigations, on prevention methods, and on many others. Finally, I would also like to say a few words about confirming the amendment to Article 20(1). Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. Fighting all forms of discrimination and violence is the responsibility and obligation of our entire society. Serbia has so far signed a large number of international agreements and has committed itself as a state, a democratic state and we as a society to fight all forms of discrimination. It is very important that the Committee for the Elimination of Discrimination of Women primarily appreciates everything that the Member States have taken in this area, but is also encouraged to take new steps, new legislative measures, new activities and action plans in the area of protection against all forms of discrimination. It also encourages a Member State to encourage the level of awareness-raising of women on their rights, to change laws in order to effectively prevent all forms of violence, to encourage women in every country, who are victims of violence, to report these forms of violence, to also encourage all women, together with men, to have equal profits and to improve access to quality health care. As I said, we have adopted several very important laws so far and in the past, primarily the Istanbul Convention. In practice, however, we still have a large form of discrimination at all levels. Women are victims of both domestic and sexual violence and, simply, we all need to understand that women are not statistics, they are not empty numbers on paper, that they have their own name and name and that they are someone's daughters and mothers. They must not become daily something that we have come to terms with and what we are used to, and therefore we must seek as a society and as a state respond to all forms of discrimination. I would use this debate today and highlight several very concrete proposals that we must make in the coming period. These steps, first of all, relate to improving inter-sectoral, cross-sectoral co-operation. When I say that, I mean first of all better co-ordination between the police, the prosecution, the social work centres and all the other institutions. We lack prevention when it comes to discrimination. We also need to change the Penal Code because I think it's quite imprecise, because for a crime of domestic violence a sentence of one to eight years is foreseen. My point is it has to be very precise. We also need a change of curricula and programs from the earliest ages. In preschool and primary schools, we need to introduce objects relating to sexual violence and health care so that our youngest students, primarily boys, are trained and trained to discrimination and violence destroys the state and society. We also need an adequate health strategy. What makes me say that? Because many thugs are housed in psychiatric institutions and psychiatry in these institutions do their part of the job. They stay there for 10 to 15 days, however, when they return home, when they return to their families they have no adequate control and they re-incentive violence. Also, not a small number of times have the police brought in thugs based on the reports of women who were victims of violence and after a few hours these thugs were released to their homes and many women today are not alive because of it. I'm asking one more question, who's going to answer all this stuff I said? I think that in the coming period, we must seek very concrete answers to these questions, given that as a society and as a state, we face a large number of discrimination and violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2239	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2240	Ladies and gentlemen, in a united debate and a joint search which is currently in the exchange of arguments we want to be served so that people who are watching us understand what we are discussing and what the consequences of this will leave on their lives, my angle of view of all these points will be human rights, because in the case of an agreement that Serbia has concluded with Mongolia or Laos with a positive ratification, one of the human rights, the freedom of movement, in one case all citizens who want to, and in the other case of citizens with official and diplomatic passports. By the way, in the recession, I'm considered a major opponent of a visa of any kind and I find it extremely hypocritical to be talking to me about the free flow of people, goods and capital, and then put visas on the citizens you consider likely to be dangerous for your country, so that they can cross your borders without visas. That position, which is more of a world view than it has a foothold in documents spoken of when visa-free agreements are concluded, has slowly been translated into an idea that, when it comes to the EU, turns into an idea of a ban on staying or crossing the borders of immigrants or migrants, those who want to hire or those who do not have the conditions to live in the territory of the countries where they have lived. As a result, one atmosphere is developing again in relation to human rights that migrants, immigrants from other geographical breadths "interrupt" societies whose share they want to be, forgetting what valuable contributions these immigrants make to cultures, economies, finances, everything that makes them richer societies to come to. It's a context where I look at visa waivers. We ourselves have been a society that stood in line in front of the embassy for a long time, expecting visas for EU member states and still for other countries. We know what it looks like when such similar political decisions, as we today confirm for Mongolia or Laos, make a decision that you don't need visas for the countries you want to travel to. Then the Syntagma of freedom of movement gets its true meaning. The co-operation of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro is something that can only be welcomed, regardless of whether it is common consular protection. We have heard arguments that this is good because of the difficulties that citizens are in, or workers who work in countries, etc. No, the consular office, it's routine business. They should be at the service of citizens independently of citizens getting into any kind of trouble, from accidents, loss of documents, robbery, disease or anything. As in the case of visa waiver, this is also about something that should facilitate your human right to have access to routine services provided by the consular presidency and if you are a citizen of Serbia and if you are a citizen of Montenegro. The two documents on which I will focus on the content of my presentation are: the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Cooperation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments to Article 20(1). Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination. This first half, members 11 through 19, refers to the delivery of personality data, the processing of personality data, the security of personality data, the handling of personality data. If there's something that's the definition of our human rights, it's in these members. Why do I have concerns, despite the need to welcome the signing of the ratification of this agreement? Because we didn't do this at home, because for years no government, nor the one I supported, nor the two that I in the opposition, for many good and obvious reasons, have fulfilled its legal obligations to handle personality data, brought in binding sublegal acts. No one's responsible, no one's punished. Now you're saying -- here's a great act that I can't say anything against, because it's a good thing I have an agreement with the European police. Here in this agreement you are bound to keep and exchange information. If I were anyone in Europe, I would ask – where are the guarantees in your internal legislation that this will be respected? That is why these agreements are good, so it is important to edit yourself according to the prescription of European integration. I know all the excuses, excuses and explanations about why the three governments so far don't respect their own laws, why they don't bring in sublaws and why they think they have the right to do so. It has nothing to do with, unfortunately, a political party that would form a government, so it brings a change. It has to do with our position that it doesn't matter, sometimes it can, at any time, what's your problem with the application of the Personal Data Protection Act? Society that, through incidents, through damages, learns that it is important to apply the regulations for which someone votes, so they are in force, a society that only through incidents learns it in itself carries the matrix of a failed society. If this agreement would speed up what the ministries are obliged to do under the Personal Data Protection Act, then he would have more quality in my eyes. That's why my support for this document from the point of view of human rights, because as in the case of consular representations, it's not about having someone in trouble, getting sick, getting lost, being robbed. This way, in collaboration with Europe, is not about being a criminal, but about a human security system based on the principle of human rights, where human security is key to normal communication and the normal movement of personal data and personal information. That beacon, which we have, that the laws against something, are deeply wrong. As long as we don't understand that the regulations we make for something, that everything we stand for as a change, that we have to explain that this change will produce the consequences of one person in our society, so that it will be better, so far we will have a huge problem and in the work of this institution, wasting time reading written explanations and repeating words that have already been written somewhere, so it would be valid to hear, so let's get rid of one important job that this institution has, which is that within the defined common interest together and the ruling coalition and opposition, whoever is a coalition and opposition, let's put pressure on the executive bodies to do what is written to them in the laws, which no executive bodies will, neither in Britain nor in the Netherlands nor in the Netherlands, nor in the Netherlands, nor in Hungary, or in Hungary, love. They don't like it on their own. That's why congregations exist. If we lose our chance on topics like this, such as human rights, by reciting how great everything is, we'll lose our chance to make ourselves a successful society. As I often tell the ministers who come here to defend some laws, better I attack you than these defend you, and the damage is common. The second major topic on the agenda is the amendment to Article 20. Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. Through this little document that can sound technical, if you only look at it from the point of view of human rights, then you can read from it the history of injustice in various human societies. There were no women in any document until 1948. Five hundred years earlier, some men met to discuss whether women had a soul. We got a voice for an unnamed person who said, "Let's give them a soul." I'm sorry I don't know the man's name. It would be nice to mention him. So, since 1948, the Universal Declaration has first mentioned women's human rights, and in 1979 this document enters the UN in the basic text. Count on yourself how old it is. Some women were born, lived, died without ever feeling in their living room that they were human beings, because that's what this document is about. We need as a civilization a document where women are prescribed to be human beings as well as men, with equal rights, not to be discriminated against. Where does the will to discriminate against women come from? The will to discriminate against women lies in prejudice that because you're different in half, you're better than someone else who's the other half. The same kind of prejudice lies in racism, ethnic intolerance, religious and religious intolerance, because I'm a Christian, I'm better than a Muslim, because I'm white, I'm better than someone who's black or yellow, because I'm a Croat, I'm better than a Serbian. This narcissism of small differences produces evils and accidents in human lives, and the narcissism of small differences is whether you are male or female, whether you are Albanian, Albanian, Serb, Croat, Montenegrin, English, British, whether you are Christian, Muslim, Hindu, Shiite, whatever you want. It's all narcissism. It's a little difference that people have made with great injustices. It took her from 1948 to 1979 to even enter some text into the UN, so it took another five years to ratify it, so we ratified it, so it took another 20 years to really start applying what it says at the Convention on the Elimination of All forms of Discrimination. Prejudice about, if you're a man, that you think you have the right to beat me, to disrespect me, to think that I'm less valuable, I can't remove this Convention from your world, but I can forbid you to expose the behavior that is based on your prejudice that I'm less valuable because I'm a woman, that you can pay me less, that I can get sick, I can handle myself, that I can be unemployed, that I can be beaten, that I can be told – you're a woman, you can be quiet and listen, be careful not to. What is very important to us is that we follow what the Convention actually says and remember, as no one has prevented us from bringing sublegal acts concerning data processing, data protection, data trafficking of personality data, so no one is stopping us from talking in this same assembly once a month about which social groups in Serbia are being discriminated against by the provisions of the Convention that we have signed, to see how much more discrimination against women in an age group, to see which social group of aged men is beginning to suffer more discrimination. No one's stopping you, except for your own laziness and habit of reciting and copying what's written somewhere, what someone wrote. The convention allows you to do that. The convention allows us to discuss how people live in Serbia, both men and women. If the Convention prescribes the availability of education and access to healthcare, then it also allows us to verify the data on this for Serbia. I'll finish with an example of the availability of education. Here we heard that women work in education, that for a time they were also numerous in the judiciary, that they were numerous in the media. You'll always find women where there's no money or where there's no money. As she starts to pull power out of some sector, that's where they'll start hiring women, letting her go, she can, never mind. Where power is and where decisions are made, we need to make a deal, again relying on the Convention on which it is concerned, and looking, for example, for quotas, to look for a period in which we will say man's conviction that only they are solely capable of politics is in complete contrast with thousands of years of data on politics. This contrast with the results requires help. Since no one has a third, then women are here to help direct a man's picture of themselves into politics and policy results over the past hundreds of thousands of years. That's where the odds come from. Temporarily until we understand that we can't, but rather want to share responsibility, that we want to change the position of men and women. It's similar to education. It's very nice to talk about, as she says, women are in education, women are here, women are there, and everything is great, with women nowhere in the first half of the 20th century, which is only 60 years ago, that's three generations ago, with no one mentioning Xenia Atanasijevic who went through the trouble of trying to defend her doctorate because she wanted to be a doctor at Belgrade University. No one's going to mention women who are campaigning for, where the girls are going to go to school, it's going to spoil them. Of course it'll ruin us, we'll learn what our rights are. It spoils the will for prejudice. If I know what my right is, then you can't beat me when you think of it. If I know what my right is, then I'll get a job, and I'll support myself. In that sense, I fully understand that view, if women go to education and education is available, the world will change. It will, it'll change for the better. That's exactly what this is about. This relationship between education and women's lives is measurable throughout the planet. The convention, which is the amendment to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination, has been supported by this Parliament, which I have witnessed since I was in Parliament. That is why I would like to mention the MPs who contributed to the application of certain forms of rights provided by the Convention and in the drafting of the report: Parliamentarian Tamara Tripic, National MP Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, MP Jelena Travar Miljevic, National MP Snezana Stojanović Plasic. I will forget someone who is no longer in parliament, who have worked hard because we have had access to education, because we read what is written in the members of the Convention and because it says that we are obliged to apply this Convention. The amendment ahead of us will allow experts who participate, and the latest report that has worked, I regret to say, a very large part, the abolished Directorate for Gender Equality, Mrs Stana Bozovic, along with MP Tamara Tripic. That was a good report. We were represented there as a country that understood how one society was changing, by being able to report on the CEDAW Convention. My appeal, because so far there's nothing else I can do, is that the other documents and acts that we're talking about from the human rights aspect, to use the capacities that are ahead of us when it comes to the Convention on the Prohibition of all forms of discrimination and this co-operation with Europol, to do what otherwise successful societies do, to use all the means available to us. Our rights, our freedoms, and all the men and women who want their work, energy and will to invest in the fact that our society is really changing and that behavior based on prejudice, regardless of what sector it is, is much less making much less trouble and misfortune for women and men in Serbia. DS MPs will decide how they want to vote. I'm deeply attached to reading the Constitution and the law. The MP votes, not voting political parties, not voting political groups. I will vote for these agreements, because they are good for Serbia. I am an opposition to the government for many good reasons, not an opposition to Serbia. I will support everything that will improve her position in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2241	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2242	Article 107. - the dignity of the Assembly. We heard a little before the story that we men here in parliament or we have a problem accepting women in politics at all. Really like someone who's a man, as a member of the SNS, I don't want to get that kind of input, because it's also how I advocated that ladies participate and that they have as much participation as possible. I would ask the debaters not to abuse this subject in such a pointless way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2243	I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. Mrs. Comic, in most of her time, held the subject and this amendment, which is definitely related to the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. She expressed her position, political attitude, but she was not so far away from the topic. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2244	Although many consider it a typical female topic, the opinion of our parliamentary group is that it is an amendment to Article 20. The Convention on the Prohibition of Discrimination is a common topic. That is why I will refer to the current position of women in Serbia in front of my parliamentary group and what we expect from the application of the amendment to this Convention. Post-socialist changes, economic and social conditions, have worsened women's economic situation in Serbia anyway. Often, gender inequality is covered up, especially in the labour market in terms of women's higher unemployment, and that is what all indicators tell us. There is still an unfairly excessive and wrong idea in our society about the traditional division of jobs on men and women, and these women, by all indications, earn less and even in the same jobs, are on average less paid. When you're fired, women get fired first. In employment, women are mainly required to be 35 years old, to look nice, and often there are different kinds of conditions for getting a job, as well as for staying at work, as well as for making progress at work. It is too high to talk about women of middle age who are in a state of total hopelessness as to the possibility of finding a job. Many transfer to all, including women, that they are unable to adapt to new market conditions. Let's say they keep learning to specialize in new areas, especially information technologies, to learn foreign languages, to do all the jobs in line with modern labour market requirements, but also to be good mothers, good housewives, to do all the chores and care for children, but also to take care of older people. So a woman is asked for everything, and a woman is often offered almost nothing in return. About mobbing, sexual abuse, signing a labor contract that a woman commits to breaking her working relationship in case she stays in a different state, I don't think anyone here has spoken. In that sense, indeed, these newly-compromised businessmen, as they were called after 2000, seem to all behave in the same, terrible and disgusting, in a moral sense above all, pattern. I only had one case of the company where I worked, the insurance company. I won't mention the name. The case is affirmative. The woman who applied for the job and who had one child, after being admitted to work, came in and told the company owner that she had stayed in a different state in the meantime and that she couldn't start working. This is one of the lone examples. The owner of the company said – good luck staying in a different condition. You've been admitted and the company won't be a problem about it. That lady is one of the most successful workers in the company and one of the ones who earns the most. What should be a rule is unfortunately a lonely example. What are the causes of women's position? Economic instability, wars we had in the '90s, sanctions, totalitarian communist regimes that idiotic communism replaced with aggressive nationalism, political pressures. The question now arises how a woman in such conditions as she should remain in our society in economic terms, physical and mental health, and on the other hand most often requires responsibility for the fall of birth and is often seen not as a human being who freely decides about birth, but a human being who needs to create a prerequisite, primarily economic, social, health and all other conditions for birth, is perceived, in a pesorative sense, as a birth machine and as the main culprit for the fall of birth. Often of those who do not look at the position of women in our society will hear a phrase that is largely domestic and which says – today women are a disaster, they will not give birth. That's not true. Women would give birth and many would have many more children and decided to take that step, but above all, the general environment in which life and safety are being lived, the absence of a certain future and perspective is the largest limiting factor in women's decision to give birth. What's the position of a woman in the country? Probably one of the hardest. The economically completely dependent remains largely present with us with this conservative realization that a woman must not even have her own property, that she must not inherit. Most often women have some land in their possession, it's up to one hectare, and it's asked to do all the jobs that men do, and at the same time to do all the jobs that men don't do. In doing so, the jobs carried out are not respected in the nearer or wider environment, and the economic bad condition, the absence of social, health and all other types of protection is too much to talk about. What does that lead to? It leads above all to a sense of hopelessness, a violation of physical, mental health and a lack of self-respect. The marginalization of women, which is not only the problem of our transition society, but also the problem of many societies in transition, is also part of the conservative heritage. It is something for which responsibility is borne by both states and all political parties that do not promote values, media and all participants in public life. What is our mission in the future? It is our mission as an MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to point first and foremost to these social phenomena. I have never talked about any law, not from our parliamentary group, the Convention and the Amendment only in praises, sticking to the very content of the norm that is often quite fine. What we have always been interested in is what life is and how we will also change the difficult position of women in Serbia by adopting this amendment. Only with this adoption of the Amendment will we give an additional normative framework to improve women's position in Serbia, and will we change it with the adoption of the Amendment? No, I don't. Many things must change in our society and I have great pleasure always and great honor to speak in front of the political party SPO who was the leader of the idea of all economic, political, social change. The leader of the idea of European Serbia. A party that gathered everything that was pro-European in the '90s, when the idea was lonely, or had no majority support. Today, fortunately, this policy prevails dominantly, except for insignificant political factors that continue to promote aggressive behavior and nationalism and also use this difficult economic situation for women to drag into certain groups, sects, to promote in the wrong way true Christian values. It's a phenomenon that exists everywhere in the world in a state of major economic crisis. What encourages us is that in this House we do not have a single political party that is against European values, which is against the policy for which the SPO was in the 1990s. Therefore, when someone tells us today that we are a meaningless political factor, we always give the answer – yes, but our policy has won. When will it completely win, not our policy, but the politics of all political parties in the Serbian parliament? The moment we talk about these problems that are expressed today as problems that arise from time to time, which are tolerable. Today's the situation seems rather unbearable to me. There's a so-called. The feminization of work. My colleague Komic said something which is also my observation, which shows also analysis, culture, education, science, leather and textile industry, where less paid jobs are where you will mostly meet women. There are industries, such as leather and textile industries, where women make up the main population either in pharmacies or in teachers, even with 95.5% participation and that's quite logical, given the nature of jobs. This condition, if we have in addition to the adoption of this Convention, will mean that women will continue to have difficulty in employment, that they will continue to be more difficult to educate, improve, specialize, advance in the profession, that they will continue to be on this level. If we look at the world's companies that have given our women, women from Serbia a chance to show themselves in a business sense, we will come up with very famous sound names, which is proof of the absolute ability of women to run companies, to lead international companies in the same way as men. What I'm talking about is a book called Civilization and Women, which you see when you look at that the problems our society faces are not just the problems of this society. There's not much to talk about the age of the Inquisition, the belt of innocence, the proclaiming of women as witches, the crucifying, the burning at the stake, etc., and whoever did it, men did it. It's the facts. We build a normal, civilized society, gender equality, so that we can do that, we first of all have to point to problems, that's what I'm trying to do in my speech and I'm doing it. We have submitted reports on the position of our women in Serbia three times, and in this sense we have received some recommendations. But it seems to me that if we speak openly, we won't need any recommendations from the UN and their bodies at all. I think it's the task of all of us, to, first of all, to locate problems, to point to them in a clear, understandable and unequivocal way, to be completely open and honest so that we can solve them. As for the confirmation of the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Europe as a conditionary European police, let us not forget that we are because of the wrong state policy until just 14 years ago that we were not even a member of Interpol, that we were not even a member of the UN, that we were the smartest in the world and that the whole world exists only to hate Serbs and Serbia. It was an official state policy promoted by state media and state institutions. In that period, the period of wars, sanctions, the existence of the largest criminal clan since the Balkans, it's the famous Zemun-surcan clan, one morning when a child woke up in my neighborhood first asked my mother - mother and who was killed today? The girl was eight years old. At the time, we felt that we could do anything, that we could do without cooperation with other police to fight organized crime, against human trafficking, against international smuggling, and so forth. Fortunately, here again now the official part of state policy is something else. Serbia is now fully coming to this part of the SPO programme, realizing that in modern conditions of life, and this is not only a feature of modern times, organised crime never knew the borders, nor state territory, and most often organised crime had an international character. International co-operation is needed in the fight against all modern and traditional forms of crime. We will support this agreement. As regards the Law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual representation and provision of consular protection and services in third countries, according to this famous Scandinavian model by which many countries, primarily due to economic costs, are literally located in one building and diplomatic and consular representations. When trying to apply the Scandinavian method to us, what has so far produced good results is the signing of bilateral agreements on providing consular protection for our citizens in third countries, and given the still hunting relations with the countries of the former Yugoslavia, which are constantly on the rise, it is again something which is a SPO policy, it seems to us that for now it is too early to talk about some common diplomatic representations, because here you see, and in terms of Ukraine, for example, Serbia-Montenegro had a different diplomatic position and it is on some side and understandable. Perhaps in these circumstances Serbia is also going to favour because we need to lead our separate diplomacy in line with our interests. In the voting day for the reasons I have stated we will vote for all these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2245	I thank Rijeka has a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2246	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, co-workers of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS certainly supports confirming all these agreements that we have on the agenda today. Of course it is very important that in one continuity of the agreements and international agreements, our country is signing, and it is repatriating, because, in fact, through these agreements, we create one necessary multi-layered communication with the world, with other countries. Of course, legally, we do it the way we normally do it. Today it is quite clear that one country cannot live for itself, that the world's absolute ambition is for various types of association and integration and that it should reach the highest degree of such communication of people, goods, capital, in which general public interests are being realized, but also the interests of individuals. In this direction certainly Serbia has been going for many years, and as far as the Socialist Party of Serbia is concerned, it has always participated in such a single policy, but depending on its position in the political mile, as it was, and certainly much more than in 2008 to 2012, when it was an integral part of the ruling coalition. Certainly from 2012 to 2014, when we had Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, but of course this government, headed by Vukic, continues that direction and that is actually the future. Someone said -- and every future government will go that way, but we as a party, I would say state-of-the-art, we will certainly continue to make a big contribution to such a policy. There have been words here that represent the government in this act of confirming these agreements. I would say that these agreements have already been signed, they are shaped in bilateral relations or at the level of international agreement between several states and ratification itself, i.e. the confirmation here in the National Assembly is one final act, not perhaps solemn, but certainly a final act that is of formal nature. It's another way when we have some laws on the agenda where we're going to make amendments and where we have some regulation laws on the regulation of some matter. That's a whole other question. Almost until yesterday, a respected minister was a National MP here with us, and I have no doubt that every single one of us here tomorrow might be in her position, provided, of course, someone becomes a minister, is competent and quite legitimate to represent the government in this act of confirming these agreements by the National Assembly. So I see absolutely nothing wrong with that. Of course, again not to realize that this is absolutely some formal act that doesn't matter at all, so then we're talking about the story. Of course, here is an opportunity for us to promote certain values stemming from such an international or interstate agreement. It is also very important for the public to find out, and these values that we are talking about here today or issues that are significant or in trouble, it is important to talk about them in this way, as has already been done here by opposition MPs, and also by the ruling majority. Today, on the list of these agreements, we have a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on visa waiver for the citizens of the two countries and, in a similar way, a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Laos on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. I'll stop right there when I mentioned those two agreements. What I'm trying to say is that it's Asian countries. Mongolia is in the eastern part of Asia, bordering north with Russia, and in the south with China, which also has rich history and has significant historical ties with China, but also with Russia, or the former Soviet Union. I don't think there's a country. I don't think there's a country in the world today that wouldn't be important to Serbia in terms of connecting or creating certain conditions for mutual co-operation. So here we have heard in some discussions that in the area of agriculture of this country are also very important, so that every segment of what is action, what is a sphere of work, what is covered by the Government is significant and each of them can represent these topics here in the National Assembly. This issue, of course, regarding visa waivers, is a significant step towards creating more favourable conditions for further improving mutual relations, and, above all, political ones, for creating one ambience of versatile co-operation on economic, scientific, industrial, agricultural and any other plan. This conclusion of these agreements is, in fact, a continuation of the policy of the Serbian state towards visa liberalisation towards non-EU countries, which is certainly ours, and how our interest. What is further on the agenda is the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on mutual representation and provision of consular protection and services in third countries. I would say here that there is one rational aspect when such relations are regulated between the two countries, because it is impossible for countries like Serbia, including Montenegro, which have neither economic power nor other assumptions to have one fully, to say the widespread network of their diplomatic and consular representations in all countries of the world. I think it's most natural, in fact, to have this kind of co-operation and the integration of states between countries in the environment, above all between countries that were once part of the SFRY. Of course, assuming and with the previous condition that mutual relations are normalized, harmonised and that there are no problems that burden us from the past. The next thing we talk about today is a bill confirming an operational and strategic co-operation agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office or Europol, as otherwise called. The establishment of Europol, or European Police Office, was agreed as early as 1992. This entity or agency initially began limited operations in 1994, as the European Drug Department. This supranational European Police Office was established by ratification of the member states of a convention and by the entry into force of the Convention in October 1998. It was created as a need for a more effective international fight against organised crime at the time of the disappearance, so to speak, under the allegations, the border between EU countries. Of course, this agreement is confirmed by other European countries that co-operate with EU members, and there is nothing more natural than that, that Serbia as a candidate for EU accession should also resort to such an agreement and contribute to what is international organised crime and other criminal activities that burden Europe as a whole and today's civilization. The role of Europol or this office is that members of the country cooperate closer in preventing and combating international organised crime, especially in the field of drug trafficking, breaking the network of illegal migration, car smuggling, human trafficking, counterfeiting of money and other means of payment, trade in radioactive and nuclear substances and against terrorism. It has been said, but to repeat, and that is what our public should know, so Europol is not in charge of conducting international investigations, but above all it is an entity that collects, analyzes and delivers intelligence data to the authorities of the Member States, to the police of independent states. Europol doesn't investigate or arrest a suspect. He plays a role in co-ordinating the co-operation of state police and the headquarters of this organisation is in The Hague. Finally, the fifth agreement here today is on the agenda, that is the proposal for a law confirming the amendment to Article 20(1). Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. We should go and start with a lot of facts that may be, when they're spread out and analyzed, maybe weird, but they're just like that. The question of women's rights is the current question that hasn't been raised that long ago and that simply such questions about women's rights and equality in rights with male sex may have been absurd in the past. The fact is that as many as 70 and some years, a European country has given women the right to vote. It's Switzerland. It speaks of what is a general problem, a global problem, it is not a problem like someone said here, Serbia, and it is not a problem that burdens only our country. On the other hand, it should be said that there is no ideal society in what is the development of democracy or the development of such values of democratic ones and those in which the right of men and women is absolutely equalised. Unfortunately, there isn't. So, the international community, the UN and other institutions and within Europe through their charters, through conventions, through resolutions, etc., seek to regulate such relations, and what is the issue of equality between men and women, or the issue of preventing discrimination between women. It's an eternal problem and a bigger job, so to speak. In these Western democracies, we will have cases of discrimination or endangerment of women's rights on certain issues in the given time. But that's what we need to talk about, that's what we need to discuss. We also need to be aware that by concluding this agreement on the prevention of women discrimination, we do not solve the problem. It's a dead letter on paper if it's not implemented. Absolutely, I personally and the SPS support such discussions that have appeared here on both sides. This is a fundamental issue of human rights, human rights and freedoms are a universal value that must be in the interest of each and the ruling majority and the opposition. That's what we have to agree on. At the end of the line, no one's even on the personal agenda provided, so to speak, they won't have that kind of problem, because we're all family people, we have a closer family, we have daughters, we have mothers, we have sisters, and that's a question that's a human question first of all. It is therefore very important that in other areas, therefore, by signing such an agreement that is being upgraded, or supplementing what this Convention was adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1979, and the SFRY ratified the Convention in 1981, while the Republic of Serbia as a member of the Convention became on the basis of a Successorial Declaration in 2001. This agreement, which is on the agenda today, is an upgrade already brought to the Agency and concerns Article 20, which is being amended in the light of amendments which say that members, or representatives of the members of this Convention, are discussing these issues as a rule within two weeks. But with this change, it's actually expanding. The Socialist Party of Serbia will certainly support all these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2247	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2248	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representatives of the government, today is an extraordinary pleasure, and I trust the others present in the hall, and those who follow us in direct transmission to listen to such an argument, a decent debate, a serious, well-prepared, debate on this set of laws, actually these draft laws within this waste of a common point, united. I wanted to talk about Europol first, but I'm going to rely on a discussion on the amendment law proposal, on confirming the amendment to Article 20. The Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, in order to continue in this good spirit. What is interesting to me, and it certainly is commendable for this assembly of parliament, is that of the self-authorised speakers, we have had five women who have spoken very well of all the bill's proposals. I would especially like to thank my fellow men who have said this, and it is also evident that they have taken a long time to prepare, very, conditionally speaking, some of them have been thinking that way for a long time. So I would indeed like to mention both the name and the colleague of Kosanić, and Mihajlovic, and Chikiriz, and the colleague of Ninoslav, who spoke about this matter. And for what? This is one really technical thing, this amendment proposal, but it is interesting that we have all tried in some way to abuse, but positively, if it can be said at all, if it is a language correct, positive abuse, that we use our time in parliament to point to the state of women's human rights in Serbia, women's positions and how much we should work on it. It is often mentioned in discussions concerning gender equality that the fight for gender equality is mostly female, but that the decision to be equal must be male. So we have to agree that we want to be equal, that we want to be one in this society and equal, and that's why I was glad that my colleagues didn't read on paper and that these are colleagues who aren't some classic women's rights fighters. These are people who, at least by my impression, and most of the colleagues I spoke to, are such a classic representative of men in Serbia. Not to get this misunderstood, not to be in stereotypes right now, but to me, it was extremely important, and I think to people who are following it in their homes, that this topic has become part of the thinking of people in Serbia, of behaviour, of function, and that it's perfectly normal for us to talk about this. Here's something that happened a few minutes ago. So we're also entering those areas that women have been less available to date. True, perhaps we weren't interested enough in the subject. I'll just remind you that I'm the first woman president of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. I have an extraordinary cooperation with all my colleagues on the board. I hope that's how it keeps going. A few minutes ago, a security committee was elected and formed. Mr. Momir Stojanovic is the new chairman of the board, but what is interesting, he noted that there are no women on that committee and immediately asked that what is next, the deputy of a member who should be replaced is just being a woman. He'll insist on being a candidate. I think it's a big shift for people who've been dealing with it, that now somewhere in the process of looking at men's pictures and names, they see that there's no woman's name. We're absolutely noticing that. It's become our way of thinking and it's a big shift. I think that's what all the politicians who've dealt with these issues have earned, and in particular we've insisted on it in the past and in this meeting. I don't want to talk about this anymore, because there are a lot of registered debaters. Knowing them, I know they will talk a lot about this and about the state of women's human rights in Serbia. Thank you for listening and for sharing these impressions with me, but I think this is very important for some of Serbia's progress in adopting some European and world standards when we talk about equality. Let me go back to this amendment that's technical. The bottom line is that the Committee, which discussed periodic reports from different countries that submitted them, usually met once a year for a maximum of two weeks to review these reports. However, due to the size of the agenda, it has proved necessary to extend the duration of the session in order to consider the report and implement other obligations in a timely manner. The amendment will enter into force after it has been adopted by two-thirds of the States Parties to the Convention, and until now the amendment has been adopted by 65 countries, including 20 member states of the European Union. Of the surrounding countries, it was done by Slovenia, Croatia, Bulgaria, Turkey and Albania. So one technical detail will be completed when it comes to the international commitment of the Republic of Serbia. I will join my colleagues' discussion on this subject, that we should really remember all the colleagues who worked on this topic during the previous period, especially counterpart Tamara Tripic, who also submitted this report to parliament on behalf of Serbia. So the proposals for a law confirming the agreement between Serbia and the government of Mongolia on visa waiver for the citizens of the two countries are very important and more important than this next agreement with Laos, because, when it comes to Mongolia, we are talking about visa waivers for all citizens of the two countries. So Mongolia is not a country of migration risk, and this agreement can affect the improvement of economic co-operation between the two countries, Mongolia and Serbia. Mongolia is also a friendly country that has not recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. Also, when Serbia joins the European Union, it must revise this agreement and, of course, bring it into line with the European Union's visa policy towards Mongolia. My colleagues mostly said a lot. I just want to get some more information that's interesting in the context of so far contacts and co-operation with Mongolia. Therefore, the conclusion of this agreement with Mongolia is primarily proposed in the context of the further development of traditionally good and friendly relations. The agreement is expected to contribute to improving relations in the areas of economy, economy, science and culture, but of course in other areas of mutual interest. Diplomatic relations with Mongolia were established in 1956. In the 1990s, Mongolia was visibly restrained in relation to our country. Only after 2000 shows interests in reviving dialogue and exchanges of visits and promotions, above all, economic co-operation. Minister Mrkic visited Mongolia in 2013 in April. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Mongolia in our country was in November 2013. That's when this agreement was signed. Right now, when we talk about an economic exchange, which is somewhere most important at this point, between our two countries when it comes to co-operation, we can't boast much. In 2012, the trade in goods with Mongolia was slightly less than $300,000, and in 2013 significantly better, 82,000 US dollars. So somewhere there is growth in the trade between Serbia and Mongolia. I assume the abolition of this visa regime will contribute to further co-operation. When we talk about confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic Republic of Laos, this refers to visa waiver only for diplomatic and official passports. The agreement was signed in May 2013 in Belgrade. Of course, the election of a new National Assembly convened a procedure that precedes the ratification of this agreement. Diplomatic relations with Laos were established in 1962. Political contacts were intense from 1974 to 1979, primarily through co-operation based on the principles of the Unclassified Movement. Laos voiced strong opposition to NATO bombings in Yugoslavia in 1999. Laos also did not recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. It advocates respect for Resolution 1244 and recognises the passports of the so-called Republic of Kosovo. Economic co-operation with Laos has unfortunately not been developed. The trade was reduced to modest imports, mostly through third countries of the Republic of Serbia over a period of years. So, in this agreement where we lift visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, an improvement in economic relations is primarily expected. What is interesting, it was also heard in the discussion of my colleagues, confirming the agreement between Serbia and Montenegro on mutual representation in providing consular protection and services in third countries is in fact the realisation of agreements on continued bilateral co-operation and certainly contributes to further improving bilateral relations and regional co-operation in bringing the countries of the region closer to European standards in providing consular protection. The foreign ministry attaches great importance to this agreement from the aspect of protecting citizens of the Republic of Serbia abroad and the Serbian Ministry has signed a similar agreement with BiH and is already being handled. What may be interesting to people who are following a direct transfer, and certainly also to colleagues, under consular protection and service provision, is considered to be: providing assistance in the event of death, serious illness, violence and trafficking in human beings, natural disasters, crisis situations, war acts, terrorist acts and other major accidents, in the case of arrest, detention, closure or detention, issuing travel documents for return to the country of origin, obtaining documents, legalising and providing international legal assistance, performing consular services in relation to ships, the need for financial assistance and, of course, issuing visas. This agreement will confirm two-way communication, i.e. allowing the respective diplomatic consular offices of both countries to provide consular assistance and protection to citizens from both countries. So far, we have had a memorandum that was one-way and in the sense that only the citizens of Montenegro were able to address diplomatic consular offices in countries where there was no DKP of Montenegro and thus request consular assistance and protection. The next item in this joint search is the draft law confirming the operational and strategic co-operation agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office. The basis for the conclusion of this agreement with the accompanying memorandum of understanding is the need to establish full police co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Europol, or EU member states, especially in the field of fighting organised crime, terrorism, illegal drug trafficking, as before the Republic of Serbia has really been with most of these countries for many years and has achieved dynamic and comprehensive police co-operation on the plan to combat all types of crime with elements abroad. Of course, the intention of this operational agreement is to make this co-operation even more extensive, even more concrete, even more quality and what we need to stress, is that co-operation with the European Police Office, in addition to contributing to further improving and modernising police work in the Republic of Serbia, is at the same time a very important affirmation of Serbia's integration into the EU. The subject of this strategic agreement is the exchange of strategic and technical information between Serbia and Europe. In early 2010, the interior minister and the director of Europol signed a road map, which accurately envisions the conditions both sides need to meet in order to obtain conditions for the conclusion of this agreement. For the competence of communication of a specific national unit of Europol, in the sense that it can directly communicate with agencies and outside the MUP, e.g. The Commissioner’s Office for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data and the Agency for the Protection of Information, for the sake of effective and timely treatment of Europol’s legal office, which has also held negotiations. The national contact point for co-operation between Europol and the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia is the Europol Office for International Operational Police Cooperation. In the follow-up, for the next few minutes as long as there is left, I'm just going to introduce you to some major points during the preparation of this operational agreement. Of course it was a process that lasted several years. A large number of people were involved. It has been very dedicated to preparing this agreement and it is time to mention in this assembly home how the process has been going, especially given the importance this agreement will have for our country and for the richer co-operation between these two institutions. In the period from 2 April to 4 April 2013, negotiations were held in The Hague with representatives of the European Legal Office for the conclusion of an operational agreement, in which representatives of the International Operational Police Co-operation Administration, the Bureau of International Cooperation and European Integration, the Department of Standard-Legal Affairs, the Department of Security Affairs and the Bureau of Public Information participated before the Ministry of Security and the Bureau. The three-day meeting agreed on final versions of the draft operational and strategic co-operation agreement with Europe and the draft Memorandum of Understanding, confidentiality and data security. They are then referred to the adoption procedure towards the government. Under government authority, the prime minister and interior minister, Mr Dacic, signed an operational agreement on 16 January 2014. Time does not allow me to talk about the basic issues that are regulated by this operational agreement, but it is also available in the form of an agreement that can be found on the Internet. I just want to say that the agreement has three annexes. The first refers to the areas of crime, which fall within Europe's mandate. The second annex lists the competent national co-operation authorities and the national contact point, while the third annex closely regulates issues related to the work of liaison officers. Communication with Europe has been specifically defined. It's going through the Neus secure communication link. It was established in 2010. The European Affairs Department shall have the necessary knowledge of the procedures and methodologies of international police co-operation and the benefits of the means of the link equipped with the necessary degree of protection. Operational data and information shall be exchanged in form and in a manner designed for mutual agreements and contracts, while ensuring full data protection in accordance with international standards. I'm just going to mention a few more projects and actions that our MUP is conducting with Europe. The interior ministry actively co-operates with Europol in several projects, the most important of which is co-operation with the focal point of the FIMATHU project, which refers to the repression of illegal immigration, then, the prevention of counterfeiting of money, the repression of counterfeiting of payment cards and the repression of drug trafficking. Of course, there are several other important projects, but these should be some of the most important points that, above all, should interest those involved in this area to look for and get more familiar with it, because co-operation with this institution and strengthening this co-operation in this way by signing the agreement is very important for Serbia, above all, will give integrity to both the institutions and the people who have already done so, and this time it is formalised in the form of this contract. Don't forget that interesting discussion about the amendment in point 5 of this joint search. I think this is threatening to go one way the press won't lead us. They want us to be depicted as being boastful, uninterested, and that human rights are something we wear on paper, in a bag or in some third drawer of our own. It is not true, indeed, that Comic's claim, that he will personally vote for this, not parties, vote for party laws, but MPs, is also a major shift forward and we should follow her example. This is an example of a set of laws that are in the interest of citizens and where all MPs agreed that it would really be a better life for people in Serbia if they voted in favour of these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2249	Thank you. Having completed their discussions by authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we move to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the drafts of the laws referred to in points 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda, Article 96(1), paragraph 4 and Article 98, paragraphs 1 and 2. Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2250	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respected members of the government, today we have a set of laws that are very important to Serbia, but not just this set of laws. In this house, every member of the law, every amendment discussed and one adopted and one not adopted is very important for Serbia, because every member of the law, every bill and every amendment changes one's life. It is the responsibility with which, as MPs, we enter this high house and the responsibility we deal with daily. That's what needs to be done, supporting what counterpart Obradovic said, journalists are to escort when they follow the work of this tall house. However, we have heard many important thesis today, claims. I will remain exactly on this amendment that we are in favour of eliminating all forms of discrimination against women at the Convention. If we believe that discrimination exists, it will exist. Perhaps I will speak slightly differently from my previous conversationaries, because I am the fourth time in this house and I am proof that it is not discrimination against women, which I am proud of, in Serbia as much as we want to stress. There is much we should be proud of in Serbia and indeed Serbia is one of the most emancipated societies in the world. I'm especially grateful to my male colleagues who I've worked with my whole life, the male environment I've been growing up in, I've been educated and I have to say, as a woman, now with a respectable age and an internship, political and personal, living, that I've never been discriminated about in my life because I'm a woman. A lot of women aren't. The fact that we are here today, the opportunity to speak like that, shows that we should be as a society proud of many of our achievements. The fact is, this is how prejudice develops, this is how it even develops. We need to understand that we must remove prejudice whenever we are in a position, because it is easier to overcome an elemental disaster and faster than any prejudice that arises in society. Our Constitution has declared the principles of equality and equality and many laws have come out of this very constitution, relying on it. In this House, we have passed laws that allow everyone to have equal chances. This was about slow cases when women were damaged or less paid. We must observe our society in the context of what is really happening. If we look at our judiciary, 2200 judges 1800 are women. In Serbia there is justice in the hands of women. If you look at education, health care, state institutions, we're really in a lot of jobs, but some segments of industry have failed. The textile industry collapsed, where women were mostly employed. If we're talking about questions that ask women, and what we're fighting with our hearts together, when they're hiring whether they're going to give birth, increase their family, whether they're planning to be mothers in some recent period, we have to say that it's a fashionable form of behavior, fashionable, that we're being introduced by foreign employers. Less is the number of domestic employers who treat someone like that. That's true. Those who talk about these rights have introduced this form of behavior by conquering our economic market. But we have established institutions that fight for human rights. As a society, we're up to the issue, and as a society, we know how to fight. There will be sporadic cases, there will be problems, there will be violence, we will hardly eliminate all of it, but we are going to be one good, rich and happy society for every single person, who will find their place in it, and we should never give up and we should never stop fighting to make this society ideal. What I can say is, it is not that much has not been done in Serbia and Serbia, in terms of discrimination, falls among the countries, on any basis, which they have arranged in a way that they can be proud of. All human rights were highly respected here, whenever necessary and necessary, in everyday life and in political terms. The issue of discrimination, the question of equal chances is a deep cultural question, a sociological question, if you please, psychologically and ethnologically. It's a question for each individual. If we want to change society for the better, we need to be aware that all changes start in our own head. The problem is that people often want to change the world, and they're not ready to change themselves. If we want to be respected, we must begin from this moment on to respect each other's rights. That's the answer to all the questions. I am grateful to everyone for having a nice and positive discussion on this subject. I think we understand each other very well. I think this is a question for each individual and each individual can make a improvement in this society by starting to treat this problem with respect. New Serbia will support this set of laws in voting day. We believe this set of laws is a step towards better Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2251	The word has a folk MP, Aida Ćorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2252	The Honored Presidency, Minister, members of the ministry, respected colleagues, as my predecessor, I will focus on the draft law on confirming amendments to Article 20(1). The Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, because everything I've done in the past 25 years obliges me to talk about this issue at every place and at all times. I hardly have anything new to add after my colleague Gordana Komic, but I will still try to point out some things that come out of our focus so often. When we talk about discrimination against women, we often talk about violence against women, psychological and physical violence, we talk about employment and the right to work, we talk about social and pension protection, we talk about the right to education, but we are very often inclined to forget about one phenomenon, and that is a kind of violence, public violence, women. I would not agree with my predecessor if women's rights were fully respected in Serbia. It seems to me that the wrong starting point, I speak from my own angle, because very often it clouded our situation and we don't see other women whose rights are being violated, we don't see women from poor social classes, we don't see women with disabilities, we don't see Roma women, we don't see women from minority groups, so we seem to have clouded our true state of affairs. It's very important to say that it doesn't matter how I enjoy human rights, but how many women in my environment. I would go back to what I wanted to talk about now, which is violence against women in public space, in media space. I'll remind you that we have a lot of women going through a kind of media lynch. When it comes to men in politics, in public life, media accounts, they are mostly referred to as thieves, criminals, or similar qualifications. When it comes to women, they are generally insulted in a very personal way. I'm sorry for the brutal expression, but women in public life are very often qualified as whores, as neurotic women, in the worst possible way regarding their personal life. I went through such a kind of public lynching. It's very important that we talk about this topic. My colleague, Comić, and I participated in a project half a year ago, a global project called "Sedam", which was provided by the Swedish Embassy and a well-known Swedish journalist and female rights activist. In this House, this play was read, and in the last session, I didn't get a chance to see, there was public reading, a lot of fellow MPs. On that day, our colleagues and colleagues from the NGO were at the reading, but that's why I saw few colleagues from parliament. I think we should do it again. The show points to situations that when a woman experiences a kind of violence that this violence needs to be talked about and publicly protected. Unfortunately, for the past 25 years, through tradition, through cultural patterns, through religion and how they push some values that I couldn't say were European, that they were modern values. Unfortunately, we have experienced a kind of retronationalization of society. I will remind you that the former Yugoslavia also had good laws when protecting women and social and health care and any other protection was high-level. I will also remind myself that in the former Yugoslavia women were given the right to vote in 1948, while many European countries gave women the right to vote in the mid-70s. I wouldn't want it to be a total waste of time right now. Of course, the legislation was to be modernised and monitored, but there was no way to say that these laws were wrong and that women were then neglected. I'm afraid now we have more opportunities to see in part this return of tradition, quasi-traditional values that are often imposed through religion and some cultural patterns now as something that is valid. We often say that Scandinavian societies are the ones who can serve as an example of good life. I think it's primarily because women's rights are respected at the highest possible level and that that well-being feels the whole of society, not just one small community. I think about this Convention that it's the legions of the entire human race, not just something we need to deal with. I really suggest we vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2253	The word has a folk MP, Neven Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2254	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, ladies of the People's Parliament and MPs, since the authorised representative of the JS has already spoken extensively about the points of the agenda, except for one, and this is the proposal for an amendment law to Article 20(1). The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women, I am going to say something about this point of the agenda. To point out at the very beginning that the JS parliamentary group will certainly vote in favour of all the draft laws in this united debate. It may be the draft law of a technical nature, since it refers to the dynamics of the Committee meeting, or bodies involved in the monitoring and application of this Convention that we are talking about, but I will take the opportunity to say something from the angle of the JS parliamentary group on the very problem this Convention is dealing with. I won't talk much about the document because my distinguished colleagues, authorised representatives and those who will discuss it have already said a lot about the details. I must say what is certainly worth mentioning, and these are the periodic reports that our country, as the signator of this Convention, sends to the Committee for consideration at each meeting and that the Committee commended one such report in its last meeting in 2013. Our asset for this commendation, I believe, was just a good national and legislative framework that deals directly or indirectly with the issue of women discrimination. I would mention some of the laws, starting with the highest legal act of the RS, the Constitution, the Labour Act with all its amendments in 2013, when women's rights are greatly and significantly increased, especially pregnant women, and I must say that I am extremely proud to have participated in the discussion of the law and that I have contributed to such a law being passed. Then there is the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Law on Gender Equality, the laws on safety and health at work and the Strategy for Prevention and Protection against Discrimination. I would also like to point out that the State Signatory of the Convention is equal to the award of male and female labour to work of equal value, which is reflected in our pay laws. However, the situation on the ground, to put it that way, is something different since a gap is shown between men's and women's salaries doing work at the same workplace, with the same capacity, with the same education, and me being created precisely because women are less paid for the same job as men. I also want to say that the fact from the field is that three-fifths of all graduate students are students, and that research by the Republic Bureau of Statistics shows that the largest number of unemployed are among women. I want to pass on the situation of young women who have faced some kind of discrimination, which are my age, which are women who have left college, who have studied for years, have given up everything that youth may have to carry with them, have given up day-to-day entertainment and enjoyment for the gain of knowledge, for the sake of desire and ambition to create a day-to-day career. It happens that when these young women come to a job interview, they face questions first, I'd say, privately about their relationship status, whether they're in a serious relationship or not, whether they're married or not, whether they're planning on getting married and whether they're planning a family. I find this in some ways unacceptable, primarily because we send a message of discouragement to all these young women. This message, especially from the angle of the JS parliamentary group, which advocates a policy of increasing birth, we believe that this message is not good because women often choose careers only because they fear that they will lose their jobs due to pregnancy the next day. The truth is, that's what's happening. It's true that women are forced to sign blanco contracts to break up work contracts. The truth is they get fired from pregnancy or when they come back from the same. The truth is that this message of discouragement must be changed and it becomes a message of encouragement to all these women. What we need to do is allow the inspection system to work more efficiently, to encourage all courts to deal in a more stringent way with complaints based on discrimination. First of all, to make this awareness of discrimination increase, especially among the citizens of RS, to inform them on a daily basis what their fundamental rights are and what is the national framework that protects their rights for these very reasons so that we cannot leave room for employers who, I believe, do not want to offend anyone, given that I know what economic situation we are in and that they all want to achieve some income and reduce their risk, but that we do not encourage this more socially irresponsible behaviour. Social irresponsibility, I believe, is a real syntagm that describes this way of behaviour by employers without wanting to offend anyone, because I believe that discrimination against women is not just a question of women, it's not just a woman's question. That's the problem of the whole society, because a discriminatory woman who, for example, gets fired, around it creates a chain reaction of dissatisfaction. She's getting economically dependent and in a way, she's getting her hands tied. It depends on male family members, which I'm sure is not good since we know how often domestic violence has been. What I'm trying to say is that social responsibility needs to be managed in some way and systemically. We should certainly support this country's political will to create a policy of equal opportunities for both women and men, and therefore I would like to say, for the end, that the JS parliamentary group will now and how to support this bill and all the laws that are in today's united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2255	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2256	Dear Presidents, a respected minister, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are considering several agreements that the state of Serbia has concluded with foreign countries. Today, I will only talk about the proposal for a law confirming the amendment to Article 20(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. At the very beginning, I would like to say that, as MP of the DS, I will vote in favour of this amendment, and in my discussion, I will again, in the role of the doctor, of some aspect of the discrimination of women in our country, say. I am an ORL specialist head and neck surgeon and I can tell you that I come from a surgical world, where still women in Serbia are under the question whether she is a better surgeon or a man. We're still men kind of more vain to say that surgery is that branch that belongs to more men. In this place, I will say on behalf of my colleagues that they are and how good surgeons and with much more attention and security are performing these mandatory surgical procedures on their patients. Today I want to say a few things, and it's about violence against women. I want to tell you as an ORL specialist who is in a position, at these difficult moments when a woman survives her most severe moments, when she experiences violence and suffers injury from her husband or boyfriend and comes to the clinic, since mainly the injuries on her head and neck, and the ORL speciality treats nose, ear, lip injury, chin injuries, these moments are very severe. I'll tell you that they're very difficult because a huge number of women are first ashamed of the situation they're in, afraid for their future, afraid for the fate of their children, unable to leave the bully who raised his hand on her, she's mostly in the reception hospitals of our hospitals not giving us the information that these injuries got from the bullys but that she accidentally fell on the stairs, that she accidentally slipped in the bathtub, that she slipped and denied the existence of a crime, practically aggression of a man, a husband or a guy over a weaker sex. I must tell you, and this is the way I appeal to Serbian citizens that if you happen to be in such a situation, don't be afraid, together we must overcome fear. A specialist doctor's report is a court document based on which you can initiate a misdemeanor trial and thus protect your basic human rights and dignity. Mostly, accompanied by women who are injured, in most cases I've had the opportunity to see the husband who did it, the woman who denies it, the husband who takes care of her that as long as I correct her nose, nose fracture, or perforation of the eardrum, since the right hand of the husband is the left eardrum of the woman and the great care of that husband and her fear because he is there, I must tell you that these are the moments that the doctor, as a witness to a family drama, survives along with the woman who has suffered this violence. Every time I suspect such a thing, and I appeal to my colleagues, I ask my husband to leave the office and in four eyes to have a conversation with a woman who has been under physical violence, to explain to her the possibility, that she has the opportunity to separate herself from that bully, that with the doctor's report she has the right to seek the help of the state and this society and not to find herself in such a situation anymore. Unfortunately, colleagues and fellow MPs, in 99% of cases, women who have suffered violence must not admit to being victims of violence. In a desire to continue their marriage and care for their children, they forgive the bully, hoping he will never raise his hand to them again. I'm telling you, as a doctor who's been working at the ORL clinic in Nis for 20 years, I've had a number of returnees and a number of caring wives who've been coming back with them, and I've reported them to the police afterwards. I can't understand any of them. I can't say they're men. A person who raises his hand to a woman once will rise second, and for the third and fifth time, and that violence will not stop. No woman has the right or the need to sacrifice herself for her family by suffering violence and being bullied by a boy or her husband. There is little talk of these things in Serbia. We are still a Balkan conservative country that brings men first and when you hear somewhere that a woman got beat up, more or less people say – well, maybe she deserved it, if she was good, you wouldn't get those beatings. My dears, we must change that. These aren't situations that can be proud of us, and we have to stamp those thugs who aren't brave enough to stand up to a man, colleagues at work and their frustrations on the weaker sex, on a woman. When I said: weaker sex, women are not weaker sex. As a doctor again, I'm telling you that women are a much braver sex than men. Before each operation, many men in fear of ending the operation, so whether it hurts me, whether this or that, no woman complained or any woman scared entered the operating room, unlike us, the big men who expressed their fear before the surgery. There's one more topic as a doctor I want to say, and it's about discrimination against women. We're full of mouths about the protection of women and children, and I can tell you that our women are still not protected enough as far as many diseases are concerned, and they are particularly dangerous diseases, which are breast cancers, uterine cancers and preventive examinations. In the Serbian state, there is a voted initiative to do screening programs of breast cancers and cancers. However, in order for you to succeed in your preventive screening program, you need more than 80% of women to respond to such a single program. Unfortunately, in Serbia, that is not the case. In Serbia, women's response is below 40%, making it impossible to protect women. I'll also tell you that in many Serbian cities, it's impossible for a woman to do mammography because many mammographs are either broken down or they don't have enough radio therapists to work with those mammographs. Care about health care and care for women is very important, this availability that says in this declaration of discrimination against women, and it says that there should be access to health care for women, is not at an envious level in Serbia, and we need to find a way to improve that together. On a few occasions, I initiated, and we talked, and I'll do it again. Let's make a legal basis for women, not only women but men, to have, if we are one of the sickest nations in Serbia, to make these screening programs, and preventive programmes as legal regulations. As children receive calls for vaccination so that women receive a call over 45 years for gynaecological examination, for the papanicola of the cervix, for the possible biopsy of the cervix if something is suspicious for both mammography and ultrasound of the breast. In men over 45 years old for the colon screening program, for the lungs, these are the most common organs where our patients get sick. So the legal regulation of this problem would certainly improve women's health, and not only women but also our entire nation, and this is one of the ideas and suggestions that I am referring to at this session. I will slowly finish, once again I will support this Amendment and this Declaration, because it is more than clear and supports the rights and human freedoms of women. I'll finish by calling all the media, let's once on one of the front pages of some printed media see some arrested bully who beat up a woman. Let's start labeling those strong men who are so strong, who beat women. Let's put them on the front page. Let's talk about them a little bit, not some starlets and some nonessential subjects to talk about. Let's defend women's dignity and clear out the pillar of shame, punish them legally and break the taboo that exists in Serbia, women's unprotection, slowly all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2257	The word is Vanja Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2258	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to focus special attention on the proposal for a bill to confirm the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office, i.e. between the Republic of Serbia and Europol, because I believe this agreement is extremely important for both the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Before signing this agreement in 2008, the Republic of Serbia signed, and in 2009, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ratified the Agreement on Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Europol, making the Republic of Serbia a strategic partner of Europol, which is now the Russian Federation. After that, the International Operational Co-operation Board was also established within the framework of the Ministry of Police, within which there were two departments, Interpol Department and Europol Department. Then there was a map of the way to make this agreement that we're discussing today. With this agreement that we are discussing today, the Republic of Serbia is becoming the operational partner of Europol, as well as all EU countries and many other non-EU countries, such as the United States, Colombia and many other countries. With this agreement, co-operation between the Republic of Serbia, Europol is rising to a higher level, through which we will exchange operational information with Europol and participate in joint actions, preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime. This agreement, signed on 16 January 2014, by the then Minister of Interior, Mr Ivica Dacic, and Director of Europol, Mr Rob Vanwright, who is today the National Assembly, takes another major step towards the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, because this type of agreement is one of the conditions for joining, or joining the EU. Most of the European Commission's report with an analytical review of compliance of the legal provisions of the Republic of Serbia with the EU's legal assets, so-called. The screening held in December and October 2013, will refer to the mutual co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and Europol. Thus, by confirming this agreement, we are taking a major step forward in relation to Chapter 24 - justice, freedom and security, which is one of the most significant but also the most elaborate negotiating chapters in the EU accession process. This chapter, as you all know, will be opened throughout the accession process and, if we want to, and I know that everyone in this room wants us, to join the EU as soon as possible, we need to accept the legal regulations and legal provisions of the EU and wait for the criteria for the opening of this chapter as soon as possible to negotiate in this chapter. This chapter includes not only co-operation with Europol, but also many other areas, such as judicial co-operation in criminal matters, judicial co-operation in civil matters, then asylum, legal and irregular migration, money laundering, counterfeiting, etc. The interior ministry has taken a major step towards bringing the EU closer, i.e. bringing legal regulations into line with EU rules, but a lot of work is yet to come. I must stress that this agreement, more specifically, with Article nine of this Agreement, will lead to the exchange of liaison officers between the Republic of Serbia Europol, i.e. between the MUP and Europol, which opens up the possibility of direct and direct communication, which will speed up the exchange of information and thus improve the fight against crime and ensure greater efficiency in the detection of perpetrators of various crimes. Also, Article 18 of this Agreement provides for the establishment of joint investigative teams, which will allow for joint actions between Europol and the competent state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. This agreement also discusses the issue of data exchange, including a whole chapter, chapter three. The second chapter also deals with the protection of these exchanges, on the basis of which a Memorandum of Understanding on the secrecy and security of data was signed in February 2014. Of course, I must stress the extremely important fact that the agreement, i.e. a positive opinion on this agreement, was given by the Commissioner for Public Information. Finally, I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed package of legislation from this search, and I call on other parliamentary groups and all the ambassadors to support this law, because it is for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2259	The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2260	Honored presidents, respected minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, since the authorised representative of the SNS, co-worker Marija Obradovic really spoke extensively and beautifully about all the points of the agenda, will only comment on the draft law confirming the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office. This is actually one in a number of institutional mechanisms in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and other forms of international crime. The law in a very clear and precise way defines the co-operation of our competent authorities with EU institutions, in this case with Europol. We are already aware of the fact that crime-mall actors have no barriers in each other's communications, exchange of information, plans and arrangements. Dispersion of different kinds of communication allows them to communicate uninterruptedly and often raise their activities to an intercontinental level. On the other hand, the internal legislation of a number of countries prohibits the availability and distribution of processed data to third parties or parties, which only contributes to criminal structures, and to the harm of respect for the law and the prevention of planned illegal activities. That bill establishes full and comprehensive co-operation between our competent authorities and Europol, with a view to preventing the execution of the most serious criminal offences by criminal structures by a timely exchange of information. Also, the law provides for ways and conditions for data exchange, how to deal with already processed data, as well as their archiving and subsequent destruction. In addition, the accent is also placed on the protection of the personal data of each citizen and the mechanisms for the protection of those data are envisaged. At the same time, in addition to the exchange of data, the law provides for the possibility of joint training, the work of analytical teams, and certain reserves that each party can adhere to, and all in line with its security assessments. Finally, by assessing that this law and a set of laws that are on the agenda of importance for Serbia, especially the law I'm talking about, the SNS will support this set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2261	Thank you. The word has Stefan Miladinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2262	Thank you. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, today I will base my discussion on the draft amendment law on Article 20. Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. This Convention is an international legal instrument on human rights of a legitimate character. As is said here, it was adopted in 1979, and in 1981 it came into effect. The SFRJ then is one of the first countries to sign this convention. The amendment has waited for the ratification of the national parliament since 1995, due to the shut down of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the formation of the Republic of Serbia as a sovereign state, whose institutions were in the phase of the constitution. The Convention itself on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women relies on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which confirms the principle of inadmissibility of Discrimination and declares that all human beings are equal in terms of dignity and rights and that they belong to all rights and freedoms without making a difference, including, of course, gender-based differences. The provisions of the Convention lay down the equality of men and women with regard to all economic, social, cultural civil and political rights. The amendment to Article 20, which is due to be ratified tomorrow, has so far been accepted by 68 member states of the United Nations. This amendment concerns the work of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination of Women who oversee the application of the Convention and whose amendment is actually made possible by more effective committee work. The amendment concerns, and this has been discussed by my colleagues, at the length of the meeting of the Committee, which has been limited to two weeks, and due to the scope of the agenda, it is foreseen that a decision on the duration of the session is taken at the meeting of the Member States of this Convention. All Member States provided for in the provisions of this Convention shall be bound by this Convention. shall be subject to the obligation to submit periodic reports. Speaking of reports, although colleagues and colleagues have already talked about our reports, I think it is important that we reiterate that the Republic of Serbia submitted on two occasions a report before the Committee in 2005 for the period from 1992 to 2003 and a combined report on the second, third periodical report for the period since 2009 which was considered last July. In the final observations of this combined report, the Committee highlighted positive steps by adopting a series of laws aimed at eliminating discrimination against women. These are the laws prohibiting discrimination from 2009, then the Law on Gender Equality, Employment and Insurance in the event of unemployment, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, the Law on Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, the Law on the Selection of National MPs and the Law on Local Elections when birth quotas are introduced. Of course, I must point out when we mention these electoral laws that the Republic of Serbia can be proud that its parliament is concerned with percentages of women's representation in representative bodies at the top of Europe. It is also important to point out that the Committee welcomed the adoption of important strategic documents, the Strategy for Prevention and Protection against Discrimination, the National Strategy for the Prevention of Violence against Women, the National Action Plan for Implementation of UN Security Council-famous Resolution of Women, Peace and Security. Also, national strategies to improve the position of women and the National Strategy for improving the position of goods. Of course, ratifications of a number of international agreements and regional agreements such as the Convention on Rights, Persons with Disabilities, the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons against Separate Missingness and the European Convention on Combating Human trafficking have been welcomed. In addition to those laws and the strategic documents we have adopted, the conclusions also voiced concern over the lack of adequate budgetary funding to implement these strategies and action plans aimed at eliminating all forms of discrimination against women. On the basis of the report, it was estimated that measures were necessary to adopt the Law on Free Legal Assistance as soon as possible in order for women to seek protection of their rights, as well as to take measures to improve the visibility, availability and transparency of the work of the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee for Gender Equality. The Commission's recommendations for improving women's situation refer to all areas of social life, starting with the labour market through the health protection of women's empowerment in political public life, of course, economic empowerment of women, the position of women in the countryside and the protection of vulnerable groups of women. It is of paramount importance for the Republic of Serbia to follow the recommendations made by the Committee both because of the country's reputation and because of its citizens. Serbia has done a lot in previous years to promote equality between women and men. The laws we passed, international agreements and standards oblige us to change our consciousness in a country that can be said to have been a sort of traditional prison for women for centuries. Although the Government has primary responsibility for the full implementation of the Convention, it is necessary to implement the Convention at all levels of government. Thus, the National Assembly should take the necessary steps to implement conclusions and observations within its competences and work together with other institutions to promote women's rights as we can say that the Women's Parliamentary Network, resolution boards, colleagues are working successfully in the previous years. In the hope that this fourth, periodic report that Serbia is due to submit in 2007, we will be even better evaluated, I am concluding my presentation and as a member of the SPS, I will vote tomorrow on all the laws foreseen by this search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2263	The word is Violet Lutovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2264	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I appear primarily as a woman, as a woman who has so far not felt what it means to be discriminated against, and in order to protect all women who have ever found themselves in a situation that they have felt discriminated against. The Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination solves the problems of discrimination against women, and also protects their rights both social, political, cultural and economic issues and women's rights and their behaviour in all aspects of life. In addition to direct discrimination which clearly states that a woman is discriminated against because she is simply inferior to a man, I would refer to the concept of hidden discrimination, or indirect discrimination where the employer pre-employs a man. Not because he believes that he is much more efficient and more concentrated in his work, but because a woman has or will have her social obligations, as a mother, as a family man or a household obligation. He probably believes that less will be concentrated than a man in carrying out job - related obligations or that he will spend less time at work. It is extremely unwarranted, in my opinion, morally unacceptable and legally unfounded that the social role of a woman is actually placed in such a situation as to prevent her from actively competing in all aspects of life, to be equal to men, and in my business-level exposure. So I would like to point out that the Convention on the Prohibition of Discrimination of Women, which was first adopted at the UN General Assembly in New York in 1979, also covered the protection against discrimination against women in a direct and indirect sense. I call on my fellow Members of Parliament to support this amendment, which I will personally do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2265	The word is Marjana Maraš.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2266	Dear President, I would like to refer to the amendment to Article 20(1) of the Bill on Confirmation of Amendments, as part of this joint search, with respect to the Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens and citizens of Serbia. Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. The SPS Group supports the adoption of this law because we believe that the proposed solution contributes to the successful and effective work of the Committee for the Elimination of Women's Discrimination, and that is why I have applied the Convention. I remind you that the Republic of Serbia has its national sources of gender equality, which are the Constitution, the Law on Gender Equality, the National Strategy and other sublaws. At the same time, Serbia is a signator and binding international documents guaranteeing equality between women and men and prohibiting gender-based discrimination. The legal framework sets out the policy priorities for improving women's positions and gender equality, and Serbia has very good institutional mechanisms to implement and monitor the process of improving gender equality. These are the Committee for Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Council for Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Protector of Citizens, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. In addition to these states, there are more developed circuit mechanisms, such as the Regional Secretariat for Business, Employment and Gender Equality, the District Ombudsman, the Regional Council for Gender Equality, the Regional Institute for Gender Equality, as well as local mechanisms whose establishment, by adopting the Gender Equality Act, has become the obligation of local self-government. I would like to point out that it is particularly important to process statistics on the achievement of gender equality. Regular and comprehensive monitoring and presentation of gender-sensitive data enables an overview of the situation in society in relation to gender discrimination, i.e. to determine whether there is an inequality between women and men. It also allows for the creation, planning and implementation of policies aimed at eliminating equality and improving the position of discriminated groups or individuals. For the sake of illustration, I would like to provide information on the representation of women in power in local self-government. Of the 169 municipalities, only eight are the presidents of the women's municipalities, and there is only one mayor. 32.3% are women, and 16.4% are women in the executive board. Among the victims of violence are two-thirds women. As a good example of the presentation of statistics, I cite the publication of the Republic Bureau of Statistics "women and men in the Republic of Serbia", which states that living with children under 16 years of age increases the difference between the male and female employment rate. Self-employed men have twice as many as women, and women make up less than one third of the self-employed. Thirteen percent of all women have the status of an auxiliary, or unpaid household member in a family shop or a farm. Women are registered with 28 of all agricultural holdings, but they account for only 23 of all individual farmers and 71% of the support members in agriculture. The woman has just over half of all age pension users, and men have almost two-thirds among disabled pensioners. In both categories, women on average receive lower pensions than men and 18% lower age and 14% lower disability. This publication also states that, after the first study on the use of time arranged in Serbia, men on average have more free time than women, just over an hour a day, although on average they spend more time on paid work, while women on the other hand spend two hours more on unpaid jobs. These data, unfortunately, point to the fact that there is still widespread discrimination against women, which violates the principles of equality and respect for human dignity. It is therefore important to pay special attention to this issue and to the state, and each of us as an individual, do everything that can enable equal participation of women in all spheres of life. As has been said, the Republic of Serbia is a member of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women and in order to fulfil its international obligations, it is necessary for Parliament to adopt a law confirming the amendment to Article 20(1). Convention. I point out that confirming the amendment does not create financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia, so it is not necessary to provide funds in the Republic's budget. By adopting the Convention, we have also committed ourselves to applying the principles contained in the Convention, as well as to adopt the measures necessary to eliminate discrimination in all its visions and manifestations, so that we are obliged to accept amendments that improve the Convention, which should contribute more effectively to the application of it in the future. With all these reasons in mind, the SPS Parliamentary Group in Voting Day will support the law confirming the amendment to Article 20(1). The Convention on the Elimination of Women's Discrimination, and how our Parliament has one-third of women, I believe that each of us will actively contribute to improving gender equality and improving women's situation in Serbia and also help plan and implement equal opportunities policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2267	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2268	President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and Members of the People's Parliament, I will use the time to discuss this united debate to speak exclusively of the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Amendment to Article 20(1). Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. That's what I want to show the importance of adopting this proposal. Although women and men are even in domestic legislation and a series of laws have been passed that deal with improving women's position and preventing discrimination, the situation in real life says that women are not equal in the everyday life of our society. I'm aware that many hate when it comes to gender equality, because when it comes to hearing it, it usually associates with feminist movements and the struggles of some women for some rights that are thought to already exist, but exactly the data that I'm about to present tells you that it's not some pointless fight, but a fight for a normal life, for the freedom that we all, whether we're born as women or men, deserve. The prejudices that a man is the head of a family and that he is a woman's place in the kitchen are characteristic of Serbia, which is essentially a patriarchal society. Women in Serbia are in a subordinate position to men in all aspects of social life, from family to private, or business. Women in Serbia are less paid on average from 15% to 20% compared to men for the same job they do. According to a survey on women's position on the labour market, the unemployment rate for women by half is higher than the male unemployment rate. There are 44% among women employed and 54.3% among the unemployed. In particular, the problem of female employment has been highlighted over 45 years, followed by housewife, farmer, young women and women from multiple disciplined groups. Of the people who have voluntarily left their jobs for family reasons, even 80% are women who make up 98% of those whose only work is in the household. Except for a small salary, employers often serve other forms of discrimination. The same job as the employer will rather hire a man with poor qualifications because he thinks a woman will eventually go on maternity leave. The share of women owned by registered facilities is 29.7%. On the other hand, women participate with 30.5% in management posts in society and businesses, and of which in directorial posts with only 20.8%. The problems of working women are also seen in the low availability of leading and most paid jobs, the traditional division of interest in men, better paid and more prestigious and women, less paid and less prestigious, the number of women working in the gray economy and the high concentration of women's labour on less paid jobs, and are also exposed to pressures regarding parenting and sexual harassment. There is still a widespread socially tolerated domestic violence to which there is still no adequate response from state authorities and society as a whole. I wanted to send a message first of all as a woman, as a mother, as a member of the Parliament of the public that we are all aware that discrimination and violence are a huge problem, but that our task is to speak louder and more loudly about this Convention and until we implement it and implement it in public. Since we have already entered this great world and European family of countries where human rights are protected, I think we should now take the opportunity to do as best possible. There is no doubt that this is a topic that should be sacred and should be a point of merger, not a point of vulgarisation of politics and making some small points, a topic that should bring us together. We should send together a message that we are all against every kind of discrimination and violence and not just against women, but against violence in our society. I therefore call on all fellow Members of Parliament to support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2269	Thank you. The word has a national emissary of Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2270	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Women is very important, because women are discriminated not only on their gender but also on the basis of gender stereotypes, who are insulted in our society. Our laws show good will to overcome this problem, but the fact is that women are still being suppressed. In addition to this, the semi-structure of employees, the semi-structure of employees in leading posts, newly employed, fired. I would stay on the rights of pregnant women, maternity mothers and this when I mention the law proposed by Nebojsa Stefanovic on child health care, maternity care, pregnant women. Also, the Labour Act obliges the employer to extend the labor contract until maternity leave expires. Of course, there are cases and not so rare that a woman is forced to sign a contractual termination of the labor contract, blanco, to provide information about her personal and family life, to get fired after maternity leave, or to make it impossible for her father to use leave for the care of the child, even though the law provides for it. A woman after maternity leave is often declared a technological surplus, and it is legally founded, and in fact because of her mother's status. The Serbian Constitution, of course, provides and guarantees the rights of mothers and maternity families. However, in practice it is neglected because employers often prefer to hire a man rather than a woman, because they believe that a woman is incomparable, because at some point, she will either start a family or be more often absent for the care of the child and be in pain. I think in our society we have a lot of work to do to overcome these implanted stereotypes and accept a woman as equal in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2271	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2272	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us with a series of agreements that are of great importance to our country, of course. One of them is the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Mongolia on visa waiver for the citizens of the two countries. It's about an agreement that completely abolishes visas. Three are the basic motives for this agreement. First, Mongolia is not a country of migration risk, which means that for our country there is no potential danger in this regard, because the citizens of Mongolia do not show any tendency to leave their country. The second motive is to improve economic co-operation and the third motive, which may have been crucial for the adoption of this agreement, is that despite the pressures it suffers, the Mongolian state did not recognise KIM's unilaterally declared independence. In one word, this agreement can only bring Serbia good and practical, it is about one easier circulation of the people, both from Mongolian and from our side. Then, we have a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Laos on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. This agreement aims to improve bilateral relations. It also aims to potentially improve economic co-operation, which is, unfortunately, minimal for now, but perhaps just by signing this agreement, there are some positive changes in the area. I would take this opportunity to point out that this country has not recognised KIM's unilaterally declared independence. Then, the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual representation in providing consular protection and services in third countries. We have a similar agreement with BiH, should be with Macedonia soon. Montenegrins ratified this agreement a year ago. The aim of these agreements is to improve and improve regional relations and good neighbourly relations. What is their essence is the mutual protection of citizens. This specifically means that if a citizen is in trouble and in a foreign country where his state does not have an embassy, that citizen can contact the embassy, the signatories of this agreement, so that there is one tendency to increase the number of these agreements as some kind of Nordic model adapted to our Balkan conditions. There is also a proposal for a law on the confirmation of amendments to Article 20(1). Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. I think the importance of this convention and what is even more important, which I would like to emphasise, is that the importance of its effective practical application should not be particularly explained. The authorities of the fight against discrimination are women alive and constantly need to work on, as well as on its promotion. It's only about one amendment. It's more technical. Due to the size of the work that exists, it is necessary to extend the Committee's work, the duration of the Committee's meeting. So far, 65 countries have accepted this amendment. At the very end, I would point out that all the agreements mentioned are in the best interests of the Serbian state, and they are in line with the process of Eurointegration, so that in the voting day they will receive SNS support.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2273	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2274	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honored Minister with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, we have before us the agreements and confirmation of the amendment to Article 20(1). Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. I will first focus on the Agreement on operational and strategic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Europol and for several reasons. The first reason is because strategic co-operation in organised crime, terrorism and other areas of international crime is the subject of strategic co-operation. Crime and terrorism are a disease that spreads like cancer. It's not just one country or just its environment. It's a disease that destroys almost all the countries of the world. In this regard, I believe that this Agreement on operational and strategic co-operation in these areas and how significant it is from the aspect of the Serbian state, but also how significant it is from the point of view of the Serbian citizens and from the aspect of their security and security. Of course, this agreement is detailed, precise, clear and it elaborates all possible segments regarding data collection, data transfer, data protection. Another document, which I would also like to quote, which is important from both the aspect of the state and from the aspect of our citizens, namely the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is the consular support and assistance agreement for our citizens in third countries, i.e. in countries where they do not have our consular representations or representations of the Republic of Serbia. Why is this help significant? Because it is about our citizens and because it is about the exercise of those rights that are almost elemental human rights. These are the rights in the case of violence, the rights of our citizens in the case of trafficking in human beings, the rights in the event of death, the rights in the case of international legal aid, financial assistance, the rights in cases of evacuation, when it comes to natural disasters, war facts, etc. Also, the confirmation of this agreement is both significant and in the best interest of both Serbia-Montenegro states and citizens of Serbia-Montenegro. Then I will also focus on the amendment to confirm Article 20(1). Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. It is, in fact, that the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women has been regulated that the Committee is meeting twice a week annually, that he is considering the reports and the recommendation, in 1995, five countries, in fact, that this time-session of the Committee on which they are considering the report is decided specifically at the session and that the deadline should be extended in any case. Since these are very important issues, and these are human issues, human, female issues, education issues, health care issues, labour relations issues, motherhood issues and other issues concerning discrimination against women, there is certainly no doubt that the Serbian Progressive Party will support the adoption of this amendment to Article 20(1). What I would like to point out, as regards a convention that we confirmed on 31 October 2013, in the last session of Parliament, which is about a specific form of discrimination and a much-represented one in the Republic of Serbia. So it's about violence as discrimination and the attack on women's human rights. I must say that during this time, from the day of the adoption of this convention to today, internal teams have been formed in social work centres dealing with violence against women, but I must commend that the signing of an agreement between the social work centres, between police stations, between health institutions, between educational institutions at the local level. Namely, this Convention that we adopted last year, which concerns preventing violence against women and domestic violence, is just scheduled to start from a local level a synchronised, networked, coordinated action that will give an adequate response to violence. Of course, the issue of discrimination, the issue of violence, that these are human rights, which need to be constantly worked on and constantly promoted. For example, in all its contracts, in 1991-1992, signed with third countries, the European Union put a clause in which human rights and democracy are an essential element of relations with the European Union. Therefore, human rights are equivalent to gender equality. This government, as responsible, certainly recognises that human rights are its objective and task to work on in continuity. All of these are reasons why the Serbian Progressive Party will support the agreements and the amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2275	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, and have Milorad Cvetanovic prepared himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2276	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here I will look back at the three acts that are in this set. One is this confirmation of this Convention banning all forms of discrimination against women. I have to admit, you know, paper suffers everything, you can write on paper the most ideal thing, but if it's not done in practice, you're free of what it says. I am particularly proud that I am a member of the party that has shown the best possible way of treating the ladies and I have also shown them that a great opportunity over important state functions, especially party functions. Look among other things, two of the most important functions in parliament are women, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, Mrs. Jana Ljubicic, as secretary. When you look at it, the governor of the National Bank is Jorvanka Tabakovic, when you look at it, the ministers at very important functions are Jadranka Joksimovic, Zorana Mihajlović, when you look at the president of the Security Committee is a respected colleague, Marija Obradovic, among us men, and very well doing the job, so in principle something is shown. The convention is something that is a civilizational fluid and this amendment, and it's something that we certainly have to adopt, but if we don't do it in practice, we can tell a hundred times a story about women's rights or the rights of any minority group, it's what matters first. The Serbian Progressive Party shows in part how it treats ladies. I personally advocate the greater participation of the lady in public and political life. I've been rarely in many discussions and matrimonial by women because they think fast, because sometimes intellectual superiority shows over us men, because they have an initiative much bigger than we men do, and we have to respect that in the best possible way. As for the other two acts concerning co-operation with Montenegro regarding diplomatic and consular representations, that is something very important. Maybe it's not understood the best way, thinking it's a simple bilateral agreement. However, we had certain turbulences with Montenegro after the collapse of the common state. Unfortunately, our relationships have been on a downward path for years. It is good that they have started to re-establish themselves, it is good that we co-operate with Montenegro and that is the fruit of a contract that we are helping all citizens of Montenegro, as they are helping Serbian citizens. We need to understand that a huge number of our countrymen live in Montenegro, are citizens of Montenegro and thus Serbia is obliged by the Constitution to help them, and with this one act, where we again encourage those ties we broke up in 2006, we re-establish them, we establish as much co-operation as possible, and I believe that it will be mutually beneficial for the citizens of Serbia and Montenegro. I especially highlight our countrymen in Montenegro who have, according to the list, 28.29%. It is something that the Republic of Serbia must respect. An act concerning co-operation with Europol, I am glad that my colleagues are present from the Ministry of the Interior, I must commend this act. For the first time, we have an act that properly respects the sovereignty of this country, regardless of what an international police organisation is, such as Europol, but so far, the acts that have come have been a bit of a command. When it came to the secrecy of the data, we were forced to deliver something, although it may be contrary to some of our interests. For the first time now, we have that Europol limits itself, and ultimately respects the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia itself. This is a really good act. There are a few members here, since I'm interested in this subject, so I'd like you to explain a little bit. Thank you for explaining on the board what a national contact point is. I have to admit, I didn't know it was called that, but thank you for that clarification. There are several members related to this memo on the understanding and secrecy of data security. First of all, in what way and how will someone make it, what would they expect? The contract itself was given a slightly broader interpretation. What would that memo look like? The other thing is about the ban on data giving, where contracting parties are allowed to provide data on persons who reveal racial and ethnic origin, political attitudes, religious or philosophical beliefs, membership to trade unions and data relating to the health and full life of a person only if absolutely necessary. Who's estimating that? Is this absolutely necessary, especially in this segment, regarding political views or religious definitions? It can happen, God forbid, that someone thinks they have the right to advocate Nazism or fascism, that's his political confidence, and now he says it's my human right not to give up my data. That's completely pointless, because someone like that would have to be sanctioned anyway. For example, some religious sect, a satanic type, which advocates that all members commit collective suicide, but then they will point out that this is their religious right, you don't have the opportunity to give that information. I'd like you to explain that to us. I must commend this, and it is about the fact that the parties only supply to each other the data collected, stored and delivered in accordance with their legal frameworks and not provided with human rights violations, where our country is truly respected and Europe itself must respect certain conventions that the EU has adopted. With that in mind, this should be supported, but I'd like you to explain to us the members of this contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2277	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2278	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will talk about a bill confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual representation in providing consular protection and services in third countries. Only in a few sentences will I refer to the history of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Serbia-Montenegro was thus called the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which inherited the former SFRY. The Confederation existed from 2003 to 2006. Serbia-Montenegro is the only remaining federal republic of the SFRY to agree co-operation in certain political areas. For example, a defense alliance. Every republic had its own state policy and currency. The main city of the Serbia-Montenegro community was Belgrade, and the Serbia-Montenegro court was in Podgorica. The Constitutional Charter was adopted on 4 February 2003, after which each state could seek full independence through a referendum that could be held at the earliest in 2006. This right was used by Montenegro on 21 May 2006. The state union was officially shut down after Montenegro's declaration of independence on June 3rd 2006 and a formal declaration of Serbia's independence on June 5th. The agreement, which was then drawn up, on the transformation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro into a community of independent and internationally recognised states of Serbia-Montenegro: that Serbia-Montenegro can agree on co-operation in the framework of diplomatic consular affairs by representing the interests of another state. The co-operation agreement is being established by the foreign ministers of Montenegro and Serbia, and the agreement is being agreed by the governments of Serbia-Montenegro, and this very hinted possibility in a possible, in my opinion, very useful co-operation lies today in the bill of law ahead of us. I find one such very useful and mutually necessary co-operation is of multiple and mutual benefit. The joint diplomatic consular representations, in which two countries in which one has no representation, and provided that the third country does not oppose it, could in this very crisis and economically unstable time achieve significant savings in both countries' budgets by representing each other as the law and predicting in the following areas: issuing travel documents, issuing visas, financial assistance, international legal aid, overtures of signatures, translation of documents and many other consular jobs that were inevitable and at the service of the citizens of both countries whose assistance is necessary. Savings would be viewed primarily on the lease or purchase of consular diplomatic facilities and personal income of employees in them. The interests that would arise in this case do not, at this point, want to bind to the eternal friendship of two peoples, which is not questionably present and reflect historical and can say brotherly connections, but to the need to provide services to their citizens in third countries, where one of the parties does not have its consular representation. The savings of substantial financial resources, which this time will result from such an agreement, will be of multiple benefit to the two countries of the signatories of the agreement. The clause itself that each of the two Contracting Parties may terminate the agreement within 90 days of the date of receipt of the diplomatic note makes this contract even more flexible, and at the same time more well-founded. It tells us that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken great care of the general interests of its citizens through this bill. For these reasons, I call on MPs to support, accept and vote this agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2279	Thank you. We have another registered MP on the list, but as far as I can tell, Mr. Risticevic is not here. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2280	Thank you, Mr. President. All I would like to do is discuss MP Djukanovic's discussion of short information. The first information concerns the memorandum, and I would like to say that in co-operation with the Information Commissioner and the Data Protection Office, with respect to the basic principles of the national security strategy of the Serbian state, a sovereign act in the form of a memorandum will be drawn up and you will be timely informed and informed about it. As regards your other objections, i.e. information or questions concerning the ban on data. I would like to inform you that the UN Convention on Human Rights, which is normally prescribed and represented in all international human rights contracts, has a precise definition that, again, all international relevant organisations are mainly incorporating in acts similar to this Treaty. Our country, the state of Serbia, is a signator of this Convention, or UN Convention. So much, so short on your questions. Finally, I want to thank all the MPs and I want to say that I am extremely pleased with the participation of the MPs in today's discussion and debate. I thank you all for contributing to our discussions to a better understanding of the legal proposals on the agenda today. I want to thank everyone who supported the proposed laws. Finally, I am convinced that I share your opinion that the proposed laws are important and important to our country in terms of its affirmation on the international agenda, that they are important and important to us in the process of our Eurointegration and that they are also important from the aspect of a constant and continuous struggle for the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. I especially want to say that I believe that you share my opinion that they are important to me personally as a member of the Government and Minister of Agriculture and as a woman, and especially as Minister of Agriculture, because their adoption will create a new legal framework for improving co-operation between our country and the countries signatories of these agreements in the area of agriculture. Thank you all once again for your attention and I believe we will see each other again soon. I believe it will be a law in the field of agriculture and environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2281	Thank you, Professor Bogosavljevic, and her team who was with her today. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall schedule a break of up to 15 hours and 15 minutes, when we will begin the discussion in particular on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2282	Dear MPs, we move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Taxation Act on Civilian income: Vojislav Vujić, Nevena Stojanović, Mr Djordje Kosanić, Marija Jevdić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Milorad Mijatović, Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović, Boris Stefanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Ljiljana Nestorović, Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavić and Zoran Babić, as well as the amendment of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I remind you that the MP, Dr. Ivan Bauer, has written down the amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. I remind you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law is in accordance with Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an incomplete amendment to Article 1, which were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdaarevic and Enis Imamovic. I also remind you that, according to Article 163(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 163 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 163 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 163 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 4 of Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vojislav Vujic, Nevena Stojanovic, Mr Djordje Kosanic and Marija Jevdzic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Milorad Mijatovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic, together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Branka Karavidić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2283	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, Madam President, except for a few technical improvements that we wanted to improve this Article 21v, our amendment refers to an additional incentive for youth employment up to 30 years of age, over 55 years of age and single parents, who of course belong to a group of particularly vulnerable categories of unemployed. In this amendment, we have proposed further stimulating the employment of this group, i.e. an increase of 15% to the already given percentage of incentives. I will remind you that this amendment significantly improves the employment conditions of over 40% of unemployed people, or over 322,000 unemployed people. I will remind you again, because, in principle, I quoted the prime minister in the debate, he said in his exhibition about limited tax relief when hiring new workers – these measures would be particularly devoted to the attention of the most vulnerable groups of the population, young people at the very beginning of their careers and people who are at the very end of their careers. In these amendments, there is no law. The proposed measures are not in line with the Prime Minister's exposé, and I ask you, will the proposed laws be one thing in the future, and the Prime Minister's words will be the other? Furthermore, I would just like to read what concerns the answer to our amendment. It is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the percentage of tax increases defined by the proposed solution guarantee equal treatment for all unemployed, regardless of age. The adoption of the amendment would also reduce the expected positive impact of the proposed measures in the Republic's budget. In principle, we have pointed out the lack of amendments and additions to the law, and regarding possible abuses by unconscious employers, and in this regard we have tried to fix this article by adding two attitudes and I would like to read them. Thus, if, in the course of the use of a tax relief for newly employed persons, the employer reduces the number of employees compared to the number of employees on 31 March 2014, i.e. on the date of commencement of the activity, increased by the number of newly employed persons, he loses the right to tax relief referred to in Article 1. After that, the employer of St. 5 and 6 will not lose the right to tax relief under Article 1 in case the employee ceases working relationship by the employee of the contract of employment by the worker at the request of the parent or guardian of the under 18 years of life, the death of an employee, either on the basis of a law independent of the will of the employee and the employer, provided that he employs another newly employed person within 30 days, so that there is no reduction in the number of employees within the meaning of Article 8. It is very important that clear mechanisms are put in place to protect against possible abuses. In addition, we have cited possible situations in which the employer does not lose the right to tax relief if it is found in the course of the use of the same. These are all possible life situations. It's, like, an employee's death case, retirement or something. Overcoming these situations where employees and employers can be found under our amendment can be done by hiring a new employee within 30 days, and once again I ask you to reconsider this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2284	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2285	Thank you. I've recorded four of your suggestions, and I'd like to answer them. The first thing applies to under the age of 30 or over 55. Our intention with these amendments and the additions to the law was that we do not have an unfair treatment among the unemployed in terms of age only as one of the categories. This does not mean that there are no other reliefs that are defined by these laws, not these concrete changes and additions that we are talking about, but the laws themselves, where, for example, we have a traineeship of three months, compared to six months, etc. In some other laws and sublaws relating to the restructuring process, we will not treat those older than a certain age limit in a different way. Another suggestion of yours was the retroactive seizing of the tax relief rights that a certain employer hired. By amending this law, as well as what you will see in more systematic laws, i.e. in particular, in amendments to the Labour Act and other laws that we will change and affect the business environment, the intention is to move towards greater flexibility. We simply don't want to commit someone to pay retroactively what would be refused under this law. So if someone hires someone for a certain period of time, anyone, we treat each equally, our intention is to reduce for those who are structurally unemployed, it means for more than six months, to cut costs. It's ideal, and I've talked about it before, when we talked about the budget both in the previous months and in the media, ideally, we'd like to go down the road to reducing the total tax burden on work. That's a principle idea. Budgetary conditions, fiscal conditions, at this point do not allow it, because this has a decrease in revenue in the budget. If we were to do this to those who are currently paying taxes and contributions, we simply don't have that space because we spend a lot more than we do at this point. But I hope that through fiscal consolidation, and in some medium term, we will be able to address that as well. So, in conclusion to your suggestion, I think it's important that we give this flexibility, because it's actually intended to allow employers not to worry about it and that if they're hired tomorrow, and at some point later on they can't have that particular employee, or not exactly that employee, but so many employees, from which conditions, simply, they've paid less contributions, we've had more income in the budget because a new employee was more than before, and that new employee had a job and a salary that he would normally have, rather than the one he was taking home. As for the third suggestion, about abuse, we've thought a lot about it. You've made some suggestions here. Our intention was, and it is, one of the mechanisms, to match the data of the National Employment and Tax Administration, so that we can control who people are hiring right now. The two situations that have come to us and we have thought about it, both in this and in some other law, so that employers can abuse these reliefs in a way that is not envisaged. One way is that those who are on the contract, I mentioned that in the debate in principle, will be transferred to a constant and thus pay less tax than they are paying now, and this is about the same people. So we're not getting a new job. Also, we've been thinking about a situation where someone would think of firing someone to hire him tomorrow, just to make less taxes and contributions. That's what this unemployment barrier is about for six months, but, again, I'd say that's not the basic reason. It is some kind of structural unemployment limit, but if you're changing jobs, you can be in the service for a while. Finally, I think I looked back on this when I was talking about your first suggestion, about the exposé, about the intention, about the being, we are aware that, especially with young people, we have great unemployment, we care and we will care about socially endangered categories, or categories that may be more difficult to achieve the right to work, but some of this already stands in this law, in members who are not subject to changes and additions, and something is also in other laws and will stand and in the second change of regulation, which will also follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2286	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2287	Thank you, Madam President. This amendment is not acceptable for SNS. I'm really glad that in the debate in principle, and even now in particular, it mentions the exposés of Mr. Alexander Vukic, which means he's been closely monitored. The exposé is the most extensive of all current prime ministers and prime minister, because it also paints the ambition of the Prime Minister, but also the state of redness of our society and the need for an ambitious exposure and an ambitious task that this RS government has put before it, to make such a situation in our society and to change. Reflecting on this amendment, but also on these grudges that came into debate in the principle that here my God, that this law applies to all categories, age categories of our society, working age, of course, more than 18 years old, and not just to those up to 30 and over 50 years old. Because if we had done that, if the bill promoter had provided for such reliefs, only for under 30 and over 50 years of age, probably that the objection of the amendment's promoter would be that this law is discriminatory. It can never please everyone, but this is definitely a message that the lawmaker, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia, wanted to give to all people working on black in Serbia a chance to regulate their status. This is also a message to employers that they don't have to think when someone knocks on their company door whether it's an inspection or what they find. This is a message that the state takes care of the unemployed. This is a message also said by the minister in the debate in principle that he is not the only one in terms of promoting employment and reducing the unemployment rate in Serbia. We will thus reduce the number of unemployed people in Serbia, but those measures that will come from the government of Serbia in the future will target those who are indeed in one of the most difficult situations. They will target young people under 30 who have graduated from school, college, who do not belong to any political party, which was earlier a cliché for getting a job, they do not know anyone in office, which was also a cliché for getting after. In order to motivate such young people, professionally, whether in the trade that they have completed, the college that they have completed, or in the knowledge that they have acquired, but also the army of people over 50, who, you will admit that we all have neighbors, relatives, friends, acquaintances, fellow citizens over 50 who are in unfortunate privatisations or in an even more unhappier accident of the government since 2008, are left without a job, who are now saying – and who do I need, who needs me from my 50 or 52, 53 or 55 years old, and I'm out of a job? What's the answer to that question? The answer to that question is that your country needs you. That your country takes care of you, as well as of young people, that you give opportunity to such people through these laws that may now be working on black, without both present and future. Without the present, because these people now have no right to health insurance, they have no right to be treated, unfortunately, but without a future because of the uncertainty of the pension we're all really going to. That's why I think this law that targets, which targets all age groups, because we didn't want the criticism to be, and why you discriminate against some categories of our society. This law, i.e. these laws, applies to all people in Serbia who have no job, to all people in Serbia who have lost their jobs, to unfortunate privatisations for which the SNS has no responsibility. This law applies to all employers who, with reduced taxes for their employees, will have one more relaxed normal business and opportunity and motivation to employ new people. This is also a message to young people that the state cannot and should not be the biggest employer, but rather the service of the citizens of Serbia, and that they, according to their knowledge, intelligence, are developing businesses and hiring new people according to their ideas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2288	Here, on what grounds? Branka Karavidic. No, you don't have the right to waste any time from a parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2289	Without the intention of entering any controversy, I just want to repeat what's written in the exposé. So, the prime minister said in his exposé on reliefs that would benefit young people up to 30 years of age, or the youngest people at the start of a career and those at the end of his career, that a set of laws with limited tax incentives would be passed. That's exactly what this is. I'm asking, why isn't that in this amendment to the law, nothing more?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2290	Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2291	I think I've already answered that question, it's not the only law, but in the amendments and additions to this law, it doesn't mean that it's only talking about it, it's in members who aren't changing, so those who aren't subject to change and supplementing it today, that there are some reliefs for trainees and those who start earlier. I was talking about that in other laws and sublaws that regulate the rights of working relationships of those who are older than a certain age limit, that's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2292	Ambassador Senic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2293	Thank you. Because of the truth and because the public has the right to know, I want to quote from the Prime Minister's exposé, therefore, he said that anti-recessions of economic policy measures will also apply to time-limited tax reliefs in the employment of new workers. What we're saying, and you have to admit that this is about this law that we're talking about today. These measures would pay particular attention to the most vulnerable groups of the population, young people at the very beginning of their careers and people at the very end of their careers. So it's an exposé. An explanation of why the amendment was rejected. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the percentages of tax returns defined by the proposed solution guarantee equal treatment for all unemployed, regardless of age. The opinion on the amendments was again signed by the prime minister. So, Alexander Wolfie. The minister says it's our intention. The finance ministry was that everyone had equal treatment, which is absolutely contrary to the Prime Minister's exposé. So simply, the prime minister did not talk about what they contain but about the existing laws, but about what would be changed. You're changing the law, what the prime minister stated in the exposé you didn't do. You did the opposite of what the Prime Minister stated. So you're giving up already on the first law of the Prime Minister's exposé. The public should judge that. I think I've made myself clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2294	Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2295	President-in-Office, Mr Minister, I believe that this amendment should be rejected for a reason if it is known that this member of the law prescribes tax reliefs and a law in general for hiring new workers independently of the category of persons belonging to the age line, or work experience, if you will, if known, and it is known that these tax reliefs in the employment of new workers aim to remove the gray zone from the field of employment, i.e. its translation into legal frameworks. If known, and it is known, both by this member and by law in general, that he is going into the order of those laws that will lead to the implementation of economic reform measures that is creating a business environment which will lead to the inflow of new investments and employment, which is one of, I agree, priority tasks, a new government, and that really stands. And finally, if it is known that these proposed percentages of the government will give positive effects in the Republic of Serbia's budget, then the amendment should be rejected. And for the sake of truth, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, in an exhibition during the elections of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, cited seven, see, as another major task of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the development of our private sector, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to employ more people. That is why this law should be supported because it is a premise of the realization of this task of the second major on page seven. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, the SNS said, so to speak, this is what we are told to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2296	The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2297	Thank you, Madam President. I don't really know what words to use anymore, and what words to use both Mr. Krstic and I, if we tell you that these are not the only measures. This Government of the Republic of Serbia is ready and able to run a marathon, and in that marathon this may be the first kilometer. If you thought that changing and supplementing two laws would solve everything in Serbia, no, it won't. But this is one step towards solving. After all, the policy of the SNS, the policy of Alexander Vucic, and I am glad that you quote it, and should be quoted in this Parliament and everywhere in Serbia, which is – we will fight for every job, and for each individual to keep or get a job. It's an amanet SNS, it's a policy that gives us citizens' trust in the March elections, to fight for each individual, to keep or get a job. These are reforms that gave us half the support of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2298	Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2299	Thank you. I use the time of a parliamentary group wishing to support the arguments of the amendment explained by counterpart Branko Karavidic and to add a question she did not get an answer to. Sometimes in this room, MPs and government representatives provide answers to outstanding questions, thinking that this might avoid a responsible question. It can only be if we're in good faith or if we realize there's no hope of getting an answer. The amendment had very clear intentions and was very clearly written. I also listened carefully to the answer about how certain we are that there will be no abuse with this measure. Unfortunately for me, your answers are not convincing, especially if I have to quote you. You're saying whoever's on the contract can go on all the time. That's not exactly how it works. It's even less convincing to say that because the worker's been working for more than six months, but he hasn't been reported, that the employer says now -- oh, great, I haven't given anything yet, and now I'm going to give money. The real world in which we all live is different from what is heard as questions and answers in this room. I know that it is a very large part of us in this hall that is tasked to reflect a real world as good as it is by impression and perception, and that the second part of us is to challenge what is obviously just perception. We also heard that we should not ask these questions because there will be other even better measures. You know, colleague Vesna Martinovic reminded me of what needs to be answered. That's what we're afraid there'll be more of these, and I'll tell you why. When there is no answer to the clear question of what you will do with real situations, that you cannot control that someone is six months, so employed to use this measure of our common money, de facto, and when you cannot explain what very good measures it will be, then return me personally to reminding you that here is the question of the usefulness of the impact of the July 2013 VAT increase, so in September 2013, what is a positive analysis of the effect of the Tax Act on net income, what is a positive analysis of the law that was similar and applied only to certain categories of employees. Answering these questions would do much more good than making promises to the honorable word that there would be much better measures than this one, and that it would be an argument that we are not asking how this measure will affect either the increase in employment or to avoid all possible abuses. It is my right to express my suspicion in the event of a clear response that this law with a refund of taxes is the first one for a particular circle of people. I know enough about the way Minister Lazar Krstic works that I am far from such a suspicion. Simply, it's a matter of character, he wouldn't allow himself, but if we don't get a clear answer and we already have a lack of answers from twice the VAT increase, about the law on net income tax, then you know it doesn't help you repeat as many times as you think it's gonna be great with some other measures, because we're not talking about some other measures, we're talking about how you're gonna prevent the abuse of a part of the tax and how you think anywhere, and even in Serbia, it's a call for all employers, who have no employees, to get the law on Friday, and he says, well, now I'm going to pay for you, this is great. It's about the living people we're equally responsible for, whether we're rooting for the minister and the government or we think they're not working hard enough, clear enough and transparent enough. Every other attempt to silence a clear question, to silence an opposition that raises a very clear question, makes common damage, and does not benefit those on whom we are all counting, and these are people who do not have full pay, nor have full pay, nor have paid employment. I don't want to hear the reasoning of the law for two years in this same room about the National Assembly deciding on the payment of contributions to employees. I voted twice in favour of such laws with great resistance and with great ethical dilemmas, because someone else made a debt for 375,000 workers, which we MPs had to decide to wake up during 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 to allocate money to all of us so that people could be enrolled and 67,000 were still without it. The law that previously applied was binding on the National Employment Service for Payment. I think that we owe all of us a clear answer – how you will prevent abuses, how it goes from the contract to permanent and what you guarantee not to bring any better laws and regulations, but not to show up to pay out of the budget for the people to whom this law will apply, to have the right to write down a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2300	Thank you. The word has Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2301	Thank you. These are three very specific questions and I will very specifically try to answer them. This is from a non-determined transition contract, which I referred to in the previous presentation, so if, for example, you're on a contract where you receive an author's fee, which is the case in certain industries, simply, in the private sector, a large number of people are employed in this way, our law regulates that only a contribution for pension and disability insurance is paid in that case. Therefore, health contributions are not paid and contributions are not paid to the unemployed. The return rates, i.e. taxes, which would be effective in the case of the application of these amendments and the addition of the law, would be such as to make it economically profitable to people, i.e. employers, that those who already have employees, people who are already working and who, by law, only pay contributions to PIO, translate into permanent employees, where we as a state would not have any effect, because these people are working anyway, and we would have to bear the cost of release, i.e. the cost of health care and anything else resulting from the contributions. So that's one way to entangle the first question about a contract indefinitely and what is thought of there. The second question was how will control be done. We have, and these data are available, published at the National Employment Service Bilten, they are very precise, they have to exist, because simply from the National Employment Service records, there are certain rights that those who are registered there are exercising. So it's very clear how long it's been unrecorded by the National Employment Service records. That's what I'm saying because there are systems in a country that are simply not good enough and where they can't be traced. Also, as of a few months ago, we also have a single collection system in the IRS, which allows the citizens to see from which all sources it generates revenue and how much taxes and contributions are paid for that particular individual. The two things can be controlled, so we've just decided on a method of vomiting. It can be controlled that indeed it is who is the employee and for whom the contribution has been paid in the second system six months before it was recorded in continuity, and by this basis the employer shall be subject to a refund of part of the contribution depending on how many new employees there have been. It's a simple computer system. This isn't being made for anyone in particular, or anything else, by reference to this first question of yours, I could say, but of course I'm not going to do that, a few industries and concrete employers who have a lot of employee fees, which, of course, could very easily be used, if we had that intention. One more thing about control, I want to say that precisely to avoid any insinuation that the law has been passed to benefit one of these, someone concrete, and not to increase employment, the country is taken as a reference date for the number of employees on 31 March 2014, which is before any publication in which this measure will be implemented, effective or anything other than taking place on 30 April or any recent date. The third question you asked about the effectiveness of previous laws and other laws, only very briefly, regarding VAT, you asked this question in one of the discussions that we had, I think, on the budget or on those accompanying budget laws. That was before. I won't be long on that right now. We'll have a chance to talk about this again in the context of budget rebalancing, which we'll talk about no later than July this year. We have done an analysis of the increase, or dynamics, if I may say so, the inflow of VAT revenue and the increase that you were asking about, in July, there were positive effects where the VAT failed us, and because of that we had the discussion that we had, was related to part of it, I would say, too ambitious planning in budget rebalancing since the previous year, but one part of it was also related, and that was what was a little bit more worrying, the fact that there was a lack of liquidity in a certain number of economic operators who were otherwise regularly paid, a small number of businesses that had entered into the liquidity problem, and therefore did not pay VAT, were already creating delays to the tax administration. As for the effectiveness of previous laws, there are no lies, no fraud. I said – this measure in one form or another has been present for many years. Besides, you said it yourself. It seems to me, I brought it up, and in the opening statement, the Fiscal Council gave that court, and I see it in the media and other experts. This measure will not solve everything on its own. We didn't see a significant increase when the law was last amended in 2011, a significant increase in employment based on this measure for endangered categories, so to speak, where it was valid for under the age of 30 and over 45. However, this should also be seen in a broader context, because it is not only a broader context of the labour market, it is not one measure that is crucial. But as far as this is concerned, we don't expect only this measure to magically change, that unemployment will drop dramatically, but this measure is a measure that precedes and will go into continuity later on with the fight against the gray economy. So the intention of this measure is double, on the one hand, to be one of the reliefs that foreign or domestic investors can choose when they create new jobs, but also the measure that will in some way be a signal and precede the aggressive suppression of employment in black and gray in all areas, but especially the grey economy and the black economy as such. As far as the effectiveness of this law is concerned, that's what I was talking about, we're going to publish, and I'm sure there will be discussions about it, because there's been another amendment to that subject. It is difficult to isolate only this law from others, especially reform things that we will do, which I am sure will increase employment, but we will publish data on the number of users of these reliefs in official documents that are regularly published either on the Ministry of Finance or the Government website, newsletter or anywhere else, and this precise record will give us precisely these things that I was talking about, the united collection of the National Employment Service and the way this law is administered to avoid abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2302	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2303	Thank you. This amendment, no matter what the applicant had, I can even say, good intentions, but it can't be accepted, because something like this can't be regulated by tax law. If this were to be accepted, we would introduce a certain kind of discrimination against people between the ages of 30 and 55, as stated here. By the way, you can't introduce that you pay taxes for one, and for the other category of faces, it all comes back to you. Someone would shoot it down in front of the Constitutional Court, because something like that is illegal. I understand the intention that was here. She is, I can even say, a good intention, but something like that is regulated by the Labour Act, and our Labour Act is currently a pretty bad labour law which, I must admit, is very pointlessly regulated and self-employed and only getting fired and is bad for both employer and worker, so I believe that this is the key measure of changing the Labour Act, this kind of thing will be regulated. I believe that people who are the most unemployed today, and these are people over 50 and under 30, will get a chance to get a job and do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2304	Thank you. National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2305	Thank you. I already said in the principle debate that I don't think these amendments to the law are something that will encourage a serious increase in employment in Serbia, regardless of the good wishes or will of anyone in the Serbian government or in the Serbian parliament. In itself, they are insufficient, and all the time we don't know what these new, these five, six other measures will contribute to increasing employment. As we know, these amendments to the law have also received a negative assessment of the Fiscal Council. My amendment aims to improve these measures in one part, which means that the deadline actually extends to this subsidy, for this relief that employers would have. This amendment, if adopted, which I don't believe in, will only have its right place if we soon get new amendments to the law that will extend these measures to the old employees, so to speak, to all employers. If it remains as it is now in this text and the bill proposal, we will only have one short-term measure that will not be used properly, while at the same time making great discrimination between already employed and unemployed, i.e. employers who already have employees. If the duration is extended until December 2019, this measure will practically have a permanent value or at least a long-term one, and we might be able to motivate employers for greater employment. Of course, without any other measures that must be dramaticly reformative, and not as they are now proposed, there will be, unfortunately, no increase in employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2306	Time. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2307	Madam President, for the SNS, this amendment is not acceptable, nor is it announced that these measures apply to all employees in the future. Why? Because in this way some employers would again be discriminated against because some jobs in the past have been opened on the basis of certain incentives. In the past, not everyone could have gotten these incentives for jobs, and I think we'll all agree here. Someone could because of political belonging, someone couldn't because of political belonging regardless of good ideas and good will. In this way, they would only double the possibility of someone who had already received the incentives of 5,000, 10,000, 12,000, 20,000 euros, were different in the past, that he was now using these measures. That is why I support the legislator who seems to be in position7. It clearly states – an employer who uses any type of incentive for a particular person in accordance with the relevant regulation, except in accordance with the law governing and contributing to compulsory social security based on the establishment of a person’s employment relationship, shall not have the right to obtain a tax relief from this Article. This attitude amputates the abuses of this law. That's how the state treats everyone equally. Someone who's been using incentive measures, so he can't use it twice. Someone can't get everything, someone can't get anything. This is why this law is good, because it is aimed for all and age categories of people and for those people who have so far not used any incentive measures, because they may not have had a familiarity, political connection and a bond, or anything that has been determined to obtain such funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2308	Zoran Zivkovic, on what grounds? Here you go. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica. Don't yell just, please. I hear very well, but call me back if there's anything you want to say. As for the replica, I closely followed the presentation of Ambassador Babic and presented the reasons why the SNS is not acceptable. In accordance with Article 104(3), you do not have the right to replication. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I have five minutes to discuss. I can't hear him throwing himself out of the place. I'll give you a warning if you yell from the scene. You know what kind of conconsequences a warning brings. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I am not shouting, but you can't hear me.]] I'm not inclined to interrupt Members of Parliament who stick to the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2309	The amendment submitted by fellow MP Zoran Zivkovic is an amendment that he well explained, but no one but him and it is quite convenient for you to take and talk about anything, saying that you accept or do not accept the amendment. It is allowed and legitimately, but in no way reduces the argument made by the amendment. The amendment submitted by counterpart Zoran Zivkovic says – employer, legal entity, or entrepreneur who employs a new person, has the right to recover part of the paid income tax for a newly employed person, paid at the end of 31 December 2019. I understand the minister won't accept such an amendment, but then I don't see what his argument is that he will bring some other measures that will help employers, when this amendment has one concrete measure under this law, which also helps employers. This amendment has absolutely nothing to do with anything but try to believe that the idea of a refund of funds may be able to liven up and extend the deadline. Everything else is political folklore. The promoter has the right not to accept the amendment, of course, but it is quite unfortunate not to accept the amendment, which has not been submitted, by an argument that is related to his own idea of what kind of amendment might be submitted, so that it is not accepted, since in the discussion, apart from fellow MP Zoran Zivkovic and myself, no one else has dealt with this amendment. I may consider supporting this amendment in the voting day, with a discussion on the issue of return of funds. In general, I am very reluctant to the legal provisions that speak of the return of money between the employer and any state organisation or body, because it does not work. I'm sorry it doesn't work, because the people that that provision should be referred to have problems about it. I will give you an immediate illustration of the provision which essentially speaks of another kind of return on funds, against which I was brought, against which I submitted the amendment and remained in the minority. Just because I'm a minority doesn't mean I'm wrong. In the Labour Act, since you're talking about the measures that will be taken here, it's an incentive for me to talk about the measures that could be taken, the employer is obliged to pay a month for women who maintain pregnancy, or go on maternity leave. My amendment was the longest three to seven days and not to make an employer a commitment, because in real life, from Monday to Friday, he doesn't give money. The woman who went to maternity leave doesn't get that money. He deals with the Republic Health Fund when it will be, how will it be in that money and in the law, as well as in this law of yours, it all writes nicely, that without delay, the RZO takes on himself maternity payments after that month, but that first month is a problem. You'll have a problem here every month for both reckoning and billing. What's in line with my criticism and my amendment to the Labour Act, not to make a commitment to the employer. If the state said - I pay maternity leave to the employed women because it's good, because it's the way this society should be organised, then let the state take over from day one. We're missing a refund between the employer and if she's really gone, if she hasn't, so he can pay for a month, then we'll do it later. You're doing the same thing with this law. It's the spirit of the legislator I've been against, as a national MP, whether I support you or I'm an opponent as an opposition. The idea of this amendment is to send a message to each other that if this measure applies in the long run, they will have to change their behavior. That's all this amendment speaks of. We'll see to the voting day how I define myself according to the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2310	The word has Minister Lazar Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2311	I'll answer the first thing. In light of the lack of acceptance of this amendment, I think we have been very clear, where it is said that the amendment is not accepted, because the length of the tax relief is optimally defined in the context of initiated structural reforms in the field of the labour market. So, as I said, I think that's very clear, these are not measures that you don't know anything about, don't talk about or will just come. We're changing the Labour Act. He will be in parliament in the next few weeks. It is very clear which five institutes were subject to talks with the Social Economic Council, now for months. It is clear from the media with which consensus has been reached, and where the negotiations are still being negotiated, etc. It's one of the measures. That's the biggest measure. It's a structural law that regulates the relationship between the employer and the employee. With the change of that law, as well as the reform of the tax administration, and we have already talked about the amendments to the Tax Procedure and Administration Act, the institutions that will change there, the reorganisation of the tax administration, the way it will be implemented, the objectives... Part of it was in the exposé, and part of it I was saying, if not here, then somewhere else. These are concrete things that will allow the environment in which work is done in Serbia to be different in two years, not five years, because we want to change those laws. As a result, the law is laid down, until these amendments are in force, by the end of 30 June 2013, and not by the end of 2019. It's a direct concern. As far as VAT returns, in this case contributions, but at all any tax revenue, as a mechanism, it's a mechanism that exists everywhere. You were talking about something else that is related to one of the Institutes of the Labour Act and is not directly related to the problem of the tax administration, but to the relationship between the employer and the employee, it is social giving, and the way that between the Health Insurance Fund and the employer is being refunded, where employers do not respect their obligations in some cases, including the state. I recognize that and it needs to change, but tones talk about whether it works or doesn't work. What's important is that the system of vomiting, specifically for VAT, works. It also works when you throw up some of the others that I'm against myself, such as throwing up on VAT for bought baby equipment, etc., for the simple reason it works. It works, but it consumes a lot of people, a lot of hours of people in the IRS. There is a way to regulate itself in another way, not to be denied in any way the rights already given, but to be administered in a very simple way through the cost-effective side, where it belongs, to know who should be given this giving in that case, because it is very clear that it is known who is giving birth and who is not. That's good. These are some things that we'll also turn to, but what's important is that it will work in this case and we've put on relatively short deadlines because we have a new system, the system by which it will be able to do so, we've already gone to the IRS and we've been very methodically consulting on how it works, and I've been talking about a new system that's been working there since March of the month at the full capacity of the combined bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2312	MP Zoran Zivkovic. On what grounds? (Employee Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Article 158 paragraph 8.) You mean a breach of the Rules of Procedure or something? Now I'm going to see what it says in Article 158 paragraph 8. Don't worry about anything. It's not a virtue to know something by heart. You don't have it on that basis. Read Article 158 of your report. This is a discussion in detail. (Employee Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2313	Article 158, the President-in-Office, deals with the search in particular, and Article 8 says that MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement determine no more than three participants in the search in particular who have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I'm one of two independent MPs and we agreed that I could use five minutes of discussion in particular, which has already been used here in your absence when someone else... Someone threw it away. We'll do that later. I was absolutely entitled to this article and it would be very interesting to tell me why you forbid it now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2314	Because as chairman, I have a completely different interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2315	Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2316	Yeah. It is not said – I also give you a warning about this way of communicating with the President.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2317	I invite you to tell you that MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2318	It's not worth throwing away. He is not a manipulative in parliament, we have great respect for him, all of us, and all the MPs. Please don't throw away. So, you got the interpretation. You have the right as an MP only to ask to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2319	Is that your interpretation?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2320	You heard my line. Do you want it or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2321	Please don't build a newly-soldier bus station from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2322	I'm taking your word. You've been warned. You know that. They'll interpret your colleagues as to what that means. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2323	Madam President, Mr Minister, we have submitted an amendment suggesting that points 1, 2 and 3 of Article 1 of this law be changed, as we all know here, which we have read the bill, that this proposal provides that this return of the paid income tax should be tied to certain percentages compared to how many new employees there are in a company, for example. We think it is okay for the government to propose some measures that envision an increase in employment in Serbia. But we do not think that these percentages of return on paid taxes for new employees are enough to encourage employers to employ more people in Serbia. You predicted 65% if you founded a working relationship with at least one and a maximum of nine employees. We believe that this percentage should go to 85 because in that case, I think, the really employer would be encouraged to do what the intention is, I think, in Article 1 of this bill. Also, point 2, you suggest 70% for at least 10 and maximum 99 employees, and we suggest 90%. Then they'd feel the effects. Instead of 75, as it says in point 3, we suggest 95. All of this should be temporary, and the next amendments to this law necessarily concern the establishment of some equality between employers who have new employees and those who already have some employees, so that we do not accidentally create conditions here where some employers are privileged to others.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2324	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2325	We have defined these percentages in line with a comparative analysis with neighbouring countries with which we are competitive for foreign investment and through talks with domestic businessmen related to domestic employers. If you have any other sources or have done any other analysis, you have not made any arguments other than your own personal opinion, why do you think that these other rates would give other effect to the law? We'd be willing to see that too. Behind our numbers are consultations and analysts, and they are not flat-rate, simply put. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2326	To Article 1 of the amendment... (Employee Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure. On what basis? (Employee Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Article 158.) Now that your colleague said otherwise, that he's the one who needs to spend time, what is the final agreement, since you haven't writtenly informed the chairman who's using that right? Let me know if you're using, that we know and that MP Zivkovic doesn't use that right at all. If it's a deal, who's the third person you've agreed with? Very clear. Ambassador Zivkovic approves of my words. I'll give you the right, but then MP Zivkovic was wrong a moment ago. Here you go. Five minutes just for you. You'll make a deal next time and you'll give the chair in writing so you don't guess who you agreed with. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2327	Now it's necessary for me to mention two things here. One is what Mr. Krstic was talking about, and the other is, however, the Honorable President, the National Assembly of what you just said. (President: You will be kind, because now you must share, I am sorry that the other MPs must attend this lesson. Identify yourselves. Are you speaking now by article 158, the time you asked for, attitude 8, or are you going to argue with the chairman? No controversy with the chairman is foreseen. So, use your right to address the minister if we don't move on. Really. I just wanted to say that in this Rules of Procedure, 158 and Mr. Zivkovic and I are entitled to these five minutes... (President: Is that a breach of the Rules of Procedure? )......................................................................................................... If you do not allow Mr. Zivkovic and me to use five minutes on the basis of Article 158, then I consider it a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2328	No, I don't. At the next session, I really think you're using the Rules of Procedure right now. Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2329	Madam Chairman, I can't not advertise Article 107. A Rules of Procedure that says that the speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Despite the reminders that were made, we went beyond one situation where the gentleman, a stand-alone MP, who also has a friend, an independent MP, threatened here and addressed the MPs. At one point he turned to one part of the hall and said something - we'll discuss it later, etc. We've gone over it here, and it's totally unacceptable and completely inappropriate behavior. If we get into a situation where some MP is threatening the other MPs and it goes unpunished, I think you were obliged to give him a warning measure. I believe that in the course of his past Mr. Zivkovic was strong and powerful and we, like all citizens of Serbia, suffered his strength and his power, but the National Assembly is not a place where you can behave in this way, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2330	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure because I gave the MP a warning. I've asked that such things never happen again. If you think you should vote? (No) The People's Messenger Gordana Komic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2331	Thank you. It is about an amendment accepted by MP Zoran Babic where the additional organisations that have been excluded from this law, such as the Protector of Citizens, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, the DRI, the Commissioner for Public Information, etc. This is what I'm talking about when I ask a question. It's not enough to say – we thought of everything. He must be involved in the dialogue and really answer questions. This amendment is proof that it wasn't meant by a terrible lot of organs and organizations. It's not about who's gonna be irrevocably right, it's about us asking a question, that we have a common interest in missing, insinuating, under-thinking things that they notice or correct before harm is done. This avoids one harm to apply this law. We warn you that almost so stubbornly you will not hear or understand the damages that can be avoided by the amendments we have made. One way or another, we can welcome the damage again, so we can remind ourselves of this amendment, or react as it has reacted to an amendment that has become an integral part of the bill. People always have choices and must respect their choices, or bear the consequences of their choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2332	The word has Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2333	Just for a minute, thank you. I agree, it is the function of the amendment, which is why we accepted the amendment. It's just the point that neither we are conscious nor we predicate to be. If there are constructive and reasoned amendments, the government will accept them, and the rest should also be debated, which I think we're doing on a professional basis, so I'm taking that as a matter of fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2334	The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2335	Your Honor, I answered with an apology earlier, but you probably didn't notice the basis for a word request. (President: Mrs. Comic received her word, I apologize. ) Therefore, Articles 103 and 107. Why Article 103? Again we seem to have witnessed one by myself an unloved scene where the president of the National Assembly, no matter what, we consider a little extensive interpretation of this member and thus did not allow the MP to explain the injury. I believe that for the sake of the functioning of this Assembly practice in which the President of the Assembly would allow the MP to explain her two minutes would be beneficial and that she would not violate the relations that exist between the MPs or the functioning of the National Assembly. I think you violated Article 103 in this regard because you did not allow MP Zivkovic or MP Pavicevic to explain why the Rules of Procedure was violated. The breach within article 107 refers to the presentation of a majority colleague who said something at one point that I think you had to react, perhaps not a reminder, but at least to warn him, which is that he referred to the MP as "a friend of the MPs", which means that the two are there in a friendly relationship, not that they were elected by the citizens. I think that's really inadmissible. Not to mention the gesticulation to look towards opposition and talk about force and power, as some had, and they don't realize that's what's waiting for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2336	Thank you. As for Article 103, the MP who responded to the breach of the Rules of Procedure said that he also responded to the Minister and to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I could not interpret the will of the MPs what he really wanted. That's what I think I couldn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. As for the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the MPs of the SNS Group of MPs, it is not possible to interpret itself with any malice or disqualification of any of the MPs, because he had no intention, because a friend is something nice and positive, at least in Serbian, but next time I will react if you think it is necessary. Do you want to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic - Korac submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2337	Thank you, Madam President. The amendment's wish was for the effects of the application of this law to be delivered to the National Assembly. We have a situation where the law has come into the process without public debate, which violates the prime minister's desire for the government to adhere to two strategic documents, where one of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, which stipulates that all laws prior to the adoption of instructions for public debate. Our intensity was to bring Parliament's work as close as possible to the public and to really build a control mechanism for the government's work from Parliament. That's why we asked for a report from the finance ministry to be sent to parliament. Apparently, the amendment was rejected because the results were already published in the bulletin. We believe that this is insufficient and that it is also necessary to notify parliament. We're staying on this amendment. Of course, we don't expect most to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2338	After we've finished discussing the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Doprinas on Obligations of Social Security You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs: Borislav Stefanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevlić, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Milorad Mijatović, Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović, Zoran Babić, Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićić, Dragan Jovanovic, Zlata Đerić and Ljiljana Nestorović, as well as the Change Government and Finance Committee, the Republic budget and control of the spending of public funds. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure, he rejected as an incomplete amendment to Article 1 which was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2339	Dear Presidents, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will today defend the reasons why we have in principle talked that the separation of more than 200m euros from the health sector and the conversion to the PIO Fund is not good for the health sector in Serbia, given that health care in Serbia has gradually become worse and worse in the past 20 years, and both citizens and doctors see it daily in the offices, in hospitals where doctors work and where patients are being treated. I believe that this amendment prevents one situation that would further worsen the health sector. Listening to the minister and listening to MPs from ruling parties who have tried to convince us that the health care system will not be destroyed, nor worsened by 200m euros being directed towards another item in the budget and other users, I find it impossible, given that health care costs and well-being requires non-stop continuous investment, both in the education of doctors and in the equipment of appliances, and in improving hospital conditions, in the homes of health and hospitals where our citizens are being treated. I'm a witness, I've been working for more than 20 years, and year by year, this situation is getting worse by not having money in the last 20 years, no money, and where are you going to save? Let's save the health care, and the doctors are so human, they'll do their job anyway. I'll tell you, by 2000, we worked as doctors for two and a half, three marks, we kept that social peace. We'll continue to work, it's not controversial, but we do work in conditions that are very difficult. In many hospitals, you don't have the most basic material in operating rooms. The surgical instruments in many halls are very old. The problem I opened in the last term was the former Minister and Chairman of the Health and Family Committee, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, which I have initiated to address oncology patients who are scheduled to go to air therapy. We've all agreed – okay, we'll buy four air therapy machines for Sremska Kamenica, Kragujevac, Belgrade and Nis, and we won't have our citizens who are very sick waiting for you anymore. Nothing moved for a year and a half, two days. We've been told there's no money to buy these appliances right now. I cannot understand that when you have a lot of items in the budget of the Ministry of Health where money is needed, you should say – we will use that money and move it to another position budgetally and there will need it more. I don't think there are more necessary and more important things in society than health care. A healthy nation is a prerequisite for the rebirth of the economy. If you have a sick nation, no foreign company, the company will, Mr. Krstic, come. At least you've been educated and worked abroad. So, at the Economic Council in Davos, in addition to economic measures and experts from the economy, you have the health care sector and you say exactly which nation is healthy and which one is sick. Where's that capital, where's it going? No capital will enter a country that has a sick nation. Unfortunately, our citizens face a number of problems. We are like a health care system faced with many diseases that are ever more present from month to year. When "" evaluates us, he takes different parameters and says – you have waiting lists, and then says – according to these waiting lists the problem was for cataract surgery. It was 20,000, so when we started to solve that problem, we came up with 27,000 people waiting for cataract surgery. Some people say yes, but these are artificially made lists, maybe these people shouldn't go to cataract surgery. I am telling you that I meet citizens on the streets of Belgrade who are approaching me now very freely, knowing that I am fighting for their interests in the Serbian Parliament, to say – I do not see, Doctor, looking for the most basic things to come to order for cataract surgery. With us in Serbia, the problem of cataract surgery is 500 to 600 euros for repromatter, for lenses that should be installed in the course of this operation, for accompanying material, fat, and we do not have the most basic things. What can I tell you about the MRI exam? The professors of radiology forced by the directors of clinical centres will tell you – yes, but not so urgent for every problem, for example. headache, dizziness, doing magnetic resonance. As a professor, I agree. But if I tell you that you have over 10,552 patients currently waiting for an MRI checkup, you can see what that problem is. It's not just Belgrade, it's the problem of our country and our citizens. That's 10,000 people. There are 8,700 people waiting for hip surgery. We need to provide them with implants, we need to give them hips so they can live. So, the fight between us politicians here should be to make life more quality for our citizens. Believe me, I have a third term in the Assembly, I do not perform as a politician, perform as a doctor, and I am interested in what has tortured me for 20 years as a doctor in the health care system, what I have not been able to fix, what my colleagues see daily, that they have no strings, that they do not have antibiotics, that they do not have the most basic material, that we try to tell you that we have a financial problem and that we need to buy it, that our health care is restored and that we do not cough after the world, that we give our citizens better health care. There's also a problem with categorization, coronography, implanting artificial heart valves. One heart valve, one stent saves life. The stent costs, depending on the manufacturer, 300 to 500 euros. I can't figure out that money we can't get. Here, I'll tell you that many clinics have waiting lists that are precisely for the installation of these stents. The most urgent cases are done really urgently, but who can assess it, if someone gets a myocardial infarction, say, "You're not that urgent, come in a month or come in half a year." Developed society must create such conditions that every dinar invests in health care and that the health care sector provides safety for our citizens. Two hundred and a few million euros to be taken away from this kind of health care. I really want a lot of success with Mr. Lonchar, Minister of Health. For the first three months, not three, but I'll give him more, I won't say a bad word. You've put a young minister, a capable doctor in the ministry, and you've taken 200m euros from him. I don't know what kind of magician he can be to do such a magic, that such a poor health care that cry out for restoration, for the restoration of hospitals, for him to solve that problem. The problem that is very important in Serbian health is that there was no hearing in the past period, which is also a little bit interpreted by the legislation in one way or another. Which is even some waiting lists where patients are placed, I'm free to speak, and I'm going to say that once again, since I have this parliamentary immunity, I think some directors of health care institutions have made an artificial contribution to making these waiting lists to develop their private practice. So the solution, although it's not a health issue, but it's a struggle for that money, to stay in the health care sector, maybe it's equalization, Mr. Krstic, the state and private health care sector, in order to relieve these waiting lists and to give citizens the opportunity to treat for it their social security. When we talk about the Republic Fund, you said that the leadership of the Republic Fund saved money and that it had surpluses. I cannot accept that, I have told you that more than 53% of the two billion euros that enter the Republic Fund annually are on the payroll. I didn't notice any savings on the salaries. The salaries remain the same. He's on a 35-percent plan, he's going to these apparatus tenders. I think that's where that so-called thing was made. Savings, i.e. Not some appliances were purchased that were to be delivered to many hospitals, clinical centres, and health centers. When someone says savings, I've saved on health care, I can't accept it because our health in a 20-year-old collapse and that recovery, that health care requires one reform, one legal regulation and the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act. To allow citizens to know what they're paying for that health insurance, to know for that money what they're getting, to know that they can also be treated with a private physician, but also to never happen to us again, like in Pirot, the arrest of all gynecologists. That this health corruption is prevented by clear legislation and that it is known if you work in the state sector, that you work in the state sector. If you work in private, then you work in the private sector. So, you can't just walk around and visit a doctor's card and favor your private office. My appeal, and this amendment is an attempt to prevent the export of more than 260 million at the annual level of dinars and to move to the PIO sector because many of our citizens currently have a lot of problems. We are at the top of Europe by the number of malignancies, among the first of cardiovascular diseases, myocardial infarction and only greater and prevention and greater investment in these diagnostic methods that would allow for the start of diagnosis and treatment and to enable citizens to extend life and better life. So we can't heal without money, and this is a doctor's appeal, not an MP. I'm in the DS line, but I'm giving you a doctor's appeal. So they have nothing to work with. Let's let them have working conditions, and as far as the patients are concerned, I'm telling you, patients are not satisfied with the conditions of treatment in our hospitals, the way the sick rooms look, what these halls look like, what these operating halls look like. When I said two days ago that we were going back to health in the '70s, I had replicas from my friend and colleague Babic. We've had super health in the '70s, we're back in the '90s. That's how health started to destroy itself back in the '90s.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2340	Thank you. Your time is up. The word has Minister Lazar Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2341	I'll speak to you very briefly. We need to establish the difference between accounting and funding. So no one said they would reduce the amount or in any way services provided by the Health Protection Act or primary health care. It's just a way of funding that changes around here. So the money instead of directly from the contribution will go from one part of the budget, as the money now goes to the PIO Fund from the budget, instead it will go to the Health Insurance Fund. So all you've been talking about is the problems that need to be discussed including this component related, if I understand correctly, and I'm not an expert on accelerators, which will be signed, it's possible in the next few days. It is negotiated and included in the budget framework with the World Bank. That's what we need to talk about, but simply these amendments and the additions of the law here are not addressed in any way. We're simply changing the way the money comes from. No one is talking about money or the amount of services being reduced in that form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2342	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2343	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I have to admit, of course, I can't express my satisfaction because our state of health is catastrophic, that is indeed so, but at least I can express my satisfaction with the recognition of someone who is now an opposition that while they were in power they basically ruined health care. Everything the speaker said earlier happened during that time when you had all these funds, or else you are now complaining about being abolished. True, we have homes of health where we have no scissors, no gauze, no basic medical means, but the question arises – what isn't it in a period of time when the government tried to obtain, or try to reform our health system in the best possible way? Excuse us, we need brand-new health laws to reform it, but I'm still stressing, this is not pleasant for anyone to have to transfer 2% from the health fund to retirement. You know, we're in such a situation that our economy is completely devastated by the various geniuses who have been here for 12 years ruining our economy. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: And you are not guilty? We're guilty if you want all of us to do it a little bit. Yeah, we're all to blame for a little... (President: address me. I ask an MP to speak to himself, the same thing to me. The problem is that he does not see his own guilt and guilt for the option that led to this country for 12 years. We had a system where public enterprises used to pump money out of them. We had a system where someone shut down the entire private sector, where we grew the administration, where we grew corruption. If you want, we've been growing corruption in health care, we've literally watered it. I'm sorry, but today it's all due. Today the state is in a situation where there really isn't a pension. I'm sorry, someone's got to start rebuilding the country and through these unpopular measures, but it would be really nice if you'd finally admit what you've done and why we've come all the way here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2344	The word has Free Ironović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2345	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the honourable fellow MPs, I think that the debate under this amendment and, at all, under this law that we discussed the previous days at least when it comes to fellow doctors should not and should not be reduced to the level of intellectual jewelry. We need to make it clear here what kind of health system we inherited in the period from 2000 to 2012/2013. A year. I come from the Valjev hospital and I work specifically at the Valjevo maternity center as a specialist in gynecologist and I can tell you that at least we in Valjevo felt very well as doctors, and certainly the patients, on their skin by those directors appointed by former Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, those directors so-called. The state money managers who left us a debt of about six million euros, when the new director came to the Valjev hospital a year ago, and when that debt now has to be settled. It is well known what kind of directors they were, how the World Bank loan was used, which was allocated to health centres in the interior, about 2004. As a councilman at the time of the city council, I couldn't get one single piece of information about that World Bank loan. It is known in Valjevo, in the general public and in the professional public, and also in some competent state bodies, in which the “Simens” provided a scanner, whether the scanner was new, reparated, or reparated, and presented as new, in which the magnetic resonance was obtained. There are also talk of how many fees these managers were with state money that were then headed by health institutions in Serbia in Valjevo, in particular. It went up to 8% or 9%, and they know it best from the "Simens" they worked with. So it's not about the money that needs to be transferred from one fund to another. It's about being honest with ourselves and saying, yes, we've suffered such directors, they've been running Serbian health for 12 years, the previous one, and this government has found devastated Serbian health, the minister of the aforementioned minister, yes, the latest specialization in Valjev Gynaecology was assigned in 1998, that we have a problem and deficit with specialist staff. What does that mean? It means only one thing, that this system in health care inherited by this government after 12 years of ruling the DS, cynical towards Serbs and patients, above all, and it seems to me guilty to the law, has to be corrected and that's the point of this story. That part of the money that's being transferred, I believe it can be saved primarily by the responsible work of doctors in primary health care and our self-control... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: As you do. )......................................................................................................... Mr. President, I'd like you to warn the MP not to throw it at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2346	I ask the MPs not to receive each other. Indeed, it is now a violation of the behaviour of the MPs in this House in this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2347	... And our more responsible work, and above all, with clinical work towards patients, and less doing other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2348	The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Are you looking for a replica on the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2349	I'd like to thank the president, with an apology for throwing my colleagues away. I'm sorry. This amendment is essentially trying to remove one problem that we've talked a lot about today, both representatives of the government and the opposition, and that's all right. The opposition proposes an amendment, you don't accept it, you have your own reasons and I understand it all. What I can't understand is this uninterrupted insistence on fighting the previous period, talking about Tomica Milosavljevic, who is the minister of the URS. So I really don't understand it. Why are you looking at us?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2350	Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2351	Then that party was also in your government, and until now the minister is also, her party was in your government. I don't think that's a good argument. Health care is in a very difficult situation and it is not good for healthcare to take away 260m euros, we have said that several times. The minister said that this is only one part, that there are other solutions that will remove this imbalance and that these funds will be replaced by payments from the budget, where, we don't understand how, anywhere, on the basis of anything, but in some places it's spilling over, and somewhere there's no stents or gauze or basics. It's okay that you all know it and nod your head, but it's not right that you're looking at us. I may not have reacted at times, I apologized, but honourable MP, direct your anger in a different direction, especially regarding the years you mentioned and someone's rule. By 2000, the state of health in Serbia was such that there was no number I could present to you here how people worked and where the stick and the rope were not an exaggeration when mentioned. You'll have to accept that, too. But also accept that the responsibility of some of you, not in this way, is to deal with an imaginary opponent and perform the kata here, karate, in the Serbian Parliament. Agree on who your political opponent is and agree with yourself who you are in government and agree perhaps in a better way, as the minister tried unsuccessfully, to tell us why and where the need for 260m euros from ruined health care, as you say, to go to a PIO fund that is unreformed, unsettled, bushed as a sieve, which your traditional coalition partner also controls. So our question and our attempt to repair through the amendment was thrown a rock into the well and we know it will be none of that, but it is our duty to point out our motivation and desire to fix things if possible and it will apply to the next amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2352	The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2353	President-in-Office of the Assembly, the proposed amendment is not acceptable for the SNS. I believe that this amendment is not an honest concern and shows genuine concern for the patient, that is, their health, but only advertising and politics. I would like to remind the distinguished colleagues that during the period from 2008 to 2012, the directors of the primary health care facility of the secondary, even the Tertial directors of the DS, and a lot of money came from the World Bank into the health system, but during that period, the charity was spent, unintendedly spent money, lived well, and now someone has to fix it. As for the waiting list, among other things, responsibility is borne and management, that is, management by the service organizers and depends on how this service will function. The minister said that this measure is transitory and related to the country's economic recovery, which means that the country will be economically strengthened, so the measures of this law will change. The Republican Fund for Health Insurance and Branches by City from 2008 to 2012 was in the hands of the DS. The Republic Health Insurance Fund, we heard, has done positive business in 2013 and will continue to do so, will continue numerous projects, and in the following year a new health care law and new reformed healthcare awaits us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2354	The word is Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2355	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, health care is always the target of criticism and when it's best organized. The very fact that you are going for a health care service to a health care institution has been copied with both psychological and physical disabilities to those who need medical care. Of course, demagogue stories can be popular and we can place them and, of course, we can't agree on many issues, and since doctors are mostly speaking, I can't express confidence that each of us thinks that in the best way his opinion can contribute to good solutions. But what is true, when we are already engaged in a time machine, including some floors, is that if we were to return to a period of 30 years ago, when a sick man only kept his health books and went to a health care facility and there the doctor would take care of him, the nostalgia would lead us to ports that were a little bit pleasant to us. Reality is different. Everything that has happened in economic, political and other fields of course has been particularly reflected in these most sensitive segments, segments of health care. Of course, it's not easy in the system in which we operate to find the resources needed to raise the level of health care. I must say that attempts to talk on very serious topics, which can be directly and indirectly considered to be emerging from the amendment proposal, including those who are in favour of and against, contribute to the fact that Serbia's health system is on a solid path if we are prepared to give up something, but also to be objective. What's our greatest value? You know, and in the polls, the highest value is health workers, people who are on the payroll, who are really under the minimum of dignity, all the time in the past decades, correctly and professionally, at the highest percentage of employees, have done their job. Because of that, by attacking individuals, even if they were directors, we sort of degrade health care. I would take this opportunity to remind myself that health education, which can actually be saved the most, because as a poor country, we cannot save in different ways, but by raising a health culture, we can make a big contribution to a better organisation of the health system. We're all a bit of a downer on the fact that we're just degraded healthcare professionals, nurses. I'm using this opportunity to actually say thank you very much to all of them, because I think the largest number of these people are doing their job perfectly. Of course, it's not just where it is, but also the space and equipment that are the necessary conditions for good functioning. It's not true that there was no savings in the previous period. I'm talking about the recent past. Only thanks to one tender, we saved 30m euros when it comes to the purchase of medicines and other medical resources for hospitals and health homes. The surplus shown is realistic and, of course, must be shared and that no one is comfortable when they have to move from one item to another, but this measure is in a way that the minister explained cannot negatively reflect if we really want to conclude, so the SPS parliamentary group will therefore, since it has analysed these proposals in detail, including amendments, against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2356	The word is Dr. Vladica Dimitrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2357	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, can only relate to my previous colleague's speech, who said he was a third-time MP and that as a fellow physician he actually appealed. I'm the first traveller, and it seems to me that an esteemed colleague has done it more for his own promotion than for the defense of the amendment itself. We've had enough of this profession here, and we all know that the health system is not in the best shape and that there are many problems. As you said yourself, this problem should be solved systemically, not ad hoc variants. As Minister Krstic said, it is about transferring funds from one fund to another to fill a hole in another fund and that it will not endanger any health system in the Republic of Serbia and that practically all the missing funds, if they are available by the end of the year, will be secured by the transfer of funds from the budget. Now that you're talking, and you're listening to citizens, especially those who are waiting for all these interventions, it's logical to say that this is just an act of personal promotion, because just by keeping these funds, one of the many accumulated problems in healthcare may be solved. To make it simple, one waiting list may be resolved, but many of them will not get rid of it. Someone may get to the hip, but they won't get to the magnetic resonance, they won't get to the artificial lens, there won't be a certain cardio intervention. The problem is systemic, and it will be solved through the new Health Security Act, health insurance, and then it will probably be analysed in detail what caused the problems that led us to this situation and when these problems occurred. The amendment is not acceptable because at this time nothing can be done more seriously to improve the health situation, or health system in Serbia, and it can disrupt a lot of things in other life systems. In particular, let's say in the system of regular retirement payments. This amendment is not acceptable for SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2358	The word is Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2359	Honored presidents, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I am, by nature, a cruel realist, and I will try to show you that, for example, a senseless health care system has been destroyed for the last 15 years, i.e. from a sum called the Republic Fund budget, i.e. two billion and 300 million euros from year to year, 15 years ago the most perfided ways have been designed to keep this money out of the hands of doctors who treat and patients who are treated in hospitals or in all those places where health work is carried out. There are thousands of such examples, and it is truly amazing that some people have come to these solutions to turn away from those they need to get through medical services or medications that need to reach patients. I guess the most drastic example is when our law includes a provision that some foreign pharmaceutical companies that open a garage to repack drugs from trucks into non-small packages immediately get the status of a domestic producer. Huge money thus leaves the health fund unnecessarily, making the import-export deficit, by the way. What is very interesting about this subject can be seen on a million examples. For example, “Lasix” is a medicine medicine that for a wider citizen, to make one parallel, means in most branches of medicine such as flour bakers in the production of bread. If you don't have "Lasix", you don't have practical medicine, you don't have the conditions to save people's lives. The “Lasixa” ampoule, while producing “Yugormedia,” cost about five dinars. Then the cure disappeared in a magical way, so we imported "Furosemid", one of his replacements from Croatia, Bulgaria, India, from where everything is not, which is seven times more expensive than the same "Lasix". In doing so, no one is involved in the activities of this “Furosemida” and I am responsible for telling you that none of them are in the relative class of quality as they were domestic “Lasix”. Only this single drug, one single ampoule, which is one of the tens of thousands used in medicine, loses several million euros annually from the Health Fund. I can tell you precisely, only on the lasiks is the loss in price in just a year at 40 health centres as many as there are in Serbia about a million euros. So it's just one crumb, one segment in all those drugs that don't exist in domestic production. (President: Please don't throw Mr. Stefanovic away. ) One of the following experiences, which was simply genius, is, let's say, if the camera can record, this paper that is required to stand next to every sink in every health institution, on which is a manual for doctors and nurses as they wash their hands, starts with writing - wet your hands with water, wipe and dry your hands. I guess that's what every kid learns in kindergarten. Without this paper, which is like this in my version here photocopy worthless, which in all health institutions has to stand finely wrapped and which is printed in several tens of thousands of copies, or without the table on which it writes – watch out, slippery floor, the hospital can't be accredited, the hospital can't work. But without penicillin domestic production or without a lasix of good quality or any other medicine you can. So it's another one of those perfided ways of turning money out of the budget on the wrong side. Of these 202 billion and 300m euros annually, some 800m euros, according to some data that can be found, went to health workers' salaries, on all health workers' salaries. There are some 21,000 doctors in those salaries, which amounts to around 270m euros. The rest goes to the middle chamber. In doing so, in our country, in our health population, there are a huge number of doctors who do their job only indirectly through other colleagues. Those clinic doctors, who deal with patients, are quite rare. The clinicians are put on the sidelines, because they're the only ones who do real work by execuating the treatment, those who do it to provide these clinicians with what they call "the doctors." Conditions for working, they have money. Doctors who need money to give patients medicine are being controlled from all sides, so now that you enter general practice, let's say, where you get to the selected doctor, the chosen doctors are afraid of their shadows whether they've prescribed 22 or 23 tablets. Some RFO controller will come in and say, "How did you do the damage of one or two pills under this famous system of capitation and the chosen doctor, you didn't cut the tablet in half because of the milligramation and the like, just amazing how did someone's mind come up with it?" These aren't health costs. Health costs are those of the machinery that I've mentioned for 15 years, and what's called creating huge costs, and what's been working for us for the last five years, six years is one of the pearls of the formation of transplant centers. We in this small country have about five transplant centers. Of these five transplant centers, they hardly have any obligation, or any transplant. In 2013 of all transplant centres in all transplant centres, 109 transplants were made in all transplant centres in Serbia. When you recalculate it, you get to do one transplant every 17 days. One transplant centre costs several million euros, education of transplant staff, as much as that. It's really one of the genius examples of how money is scattered to get a couple of people advertised on the subject. This could be the number of days, but I'm only trying to put out those examples that are amazing. Almost all health centers have been given mini-drive plants for the production of infusion solutions in the past two thousand years. The infusion solution, the basic one used in medicine, consists of 4.5 grams of pure kitchen salt and some 500 milliliters of pure distilled water. These infuzione solution health centers, the type of my health center in Chačka, were made and it cost 20 dinars in that production. In 2006, production by the ministry's decree is not known for what reason, so the purchase and use costs of these infusion solutions from 20 dinars jumped to 90 dinars. Most of these costs, from 90 dinars, to 20 mentioned, are brokers in trade, transport intermediaries, non-refundable packaging and the like. You really should have been a genius man and come up with something like that, and for example, only a hospital in Chačka spends 12 to 18 thousand of these infusion solutions a month. When you recalculate that at Serbia's level, it's about 10m euros just because the simplest production from hospitals and health centres has been moved. In addition, three or four years ago, there is a ban on distilled, i.e. redistributed water, where the costs are still five times the cost of uneconomy. This transfer of this 2% from what's called the Health Fund to retirement insurance, compared to those machinations he has in health care, is a drop in the sea. It is really very easy for a good organization to get in the way of these thieves and healthcare in Serbia to give to clinicians and patients who are really meant and needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2360	The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2361	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues have said a lot, I don't want to repeat it, but only a few things should be said not just for our sake here, more because of the citizens of Serbia who know what our health system looks like. This amendment, which the colleague presented, is good that the government rejected it. We will not support him, and he has served more to criticize the system they bestowed the most. At one point, now criticise waiting lists, criticise that there are no stents, that there are no appliances etc., is at least demagogy and perhaps in a certain way and amoral of the people who criticized it, who belonged to the former government. What's this about? In all the systems so far, given my age, I was a clinical physician, we have inherited a relatively solid health system in another socio-political system since the 1990s, but this health system has functioned as well. Then one of the MPs said it was a stick and a rope in the '90s. It's true that we worked with a cane and a cane, but in this system, we doctors were the most able to maintain a health system under bombing, under sanctions that hit us and under the entire economic system that we were in. This health system was relatively good compared to this present one. Then, in 2000, after the revolution led by the DS and after the burning of this house, corruption in health began. The Health Act has been passed that made it possible for all of us to crash into each other, then changes began, not a complete health system, but a small door. Some segments in the health system were changed, which slowly allowed and introduced corruption into the health system. The colleagues who worked at that time know what that means. We've talked about it many times here. Then the health corruption started, then they slowly started and you say the minister wasn't yours. He wasn't your minister, but he was in the government that you ran. The minister was proposed by your group, not ours. If in any way you're alluding to the SPS and the SRS in the '90s, that system worked and the health system worked at the time. But what? For the 12 years that you've been in power, or DS and the government that was then, means the system to be drawn, you've led the health system to the beggar stick. You led us to the waiting list. You've led us to the fact that we don't have the apparatus, that we don't have the instruments, that we have nothing to do and that's the worst thing in the whole thing, people would take it, but they can't stand corruption, they can't stand robbery. The law has not yet been changed while Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic was the minister. We're going to change that law, and we're going to change it now with Mr. Lonchar. What bothers the patients most is just robbery and corruption, which is allowed by the legislation inauguration by DS. Talk about who runs health care? In Vojvodina, healthcare still runs the DS. So, in no way is SNS responsible for the management of healthcare in Vojvodina. You have Ms Vesna Kopitovic's regional secretary, who is from the DS and who is quite negative towards the current health minister and, in general, towards the minister of health from the Republic of Serbia for some reasons. All directors belong more or less to the DS. I hope we change that and change that moment, because you no longer have the support of the Vojvodina. When the authorities are transferred, after the election you will lose, health care in Vojvodina, as well as health care throughout the Republic of Serbia, we will bring normal branches and give him the dignity and pride that you have destroyed for 12 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2362	The word has been given by the MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2363	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I am sorry that the minister, who is in charge of this topic, is now not in the Assembly Hall, so he cannot listen to our additional argument that we want to support our performance when we have a search in principle. Then we announced that, generally speaking, this bill is not good. We have announced that we have the highest number of objections to Article 1 and that is why we have proposed this amendment to delete Article 1. There are two additional reasons I would use here to show why it is necessary to delete this Article 1, if we want to do one good thing. First of all, it was quite visible here, not only based on the content of the bill, but also on the minister's argument, that the definition of this government and on the case of this law is redistribution. We'll take it from here now, so when it's time to take it from there. That's what I think, in the people most often recognizes as spilling from hollow to empty. It's especially visible in those societies, in those countries that are very poor. We argue that, if this is about it, it should not continue with this bad practice, but should be said – the problem is with pensions, the Pension-Invalid Fund is empty, we have to solve this problem, not deepen it. The second thing, this proposal announces pure volunteering, because the minister himself says – don't worry about you in health care, today we'll take some of your money, but when there's a chance, the government will make up for that money by taking it from the other side, and in the third moment from the third. Where's that going? We feel that this is why Article 1 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2364	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. He didn't mention you, but please, you can spend your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2365	It's called DS three or four times. I think this was a sad example of another attempt to keep healthcare politicized, given how harmful that phenomenon was in the previous period. I repeat, the charges brought here do not stand absolutely, and especially when it is known that this government and the previous government led by Dacic and this one led by Mr. Vukic has shown the true face of your health policy in Vrbas, where she closed down the hospital and in Ruma, where she closed the maternity ward. In Vrbas because the president of the municipality is a doctor, so he can't be a doctor and the president of the municipality at the same time, so you shut down the hospital nicely. It's the face of your politics in that same Duke you mention. It's not right that when you don't have a solution, and you don't have a solution, you've shown it in the last two years. That's my opinion. You just don't know, absolutely, in any field of anything to do, except to say what you've been doing, and what we've been doing, unfortunately, in terms of numbers, clear indicators, and unfortunately citizens, is better than what you're doing. Just show me how it isn't? Where are you going to spend these 260m euros through the PIO Fund that's been smashed from all sides? There's no telling where the wind's blowing. You take the situation when you say it yourself – in your power, it doesn't matter which authorities. In this country you've been responsible for two years already. Aman-for-nothing people, do something. No such material, no such thing. Pregnant women eat one greasy salami a day. What are you talking about? You give them 260 million in the wind.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2366	Replica, two minutes. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, responding to a replica. Is that right? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: On what basis? ( b) Replica. It's the same base as yours to answer. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: No party has been mentioned. Well, then I'll give you the time of your parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2367	Thank you, Madam President. I really don't understand why the previous speaker is so nervous and why he puts so much bile into a debate where he's absolutely not professional. What is a fact is that since 2000 DS has systematically destroyed many important institutions in Serbia, including health care. The argument that the minister of health in the government, led by the DS, was not from the DS is quite funny. It's just proof of the fact that DS has seen every ministry as a political feud. He's not mine, so I'm not responsible for what he did. I have an obligation to deny one not the truth. So, in the first government that was formed in 2012 and in this second year 2014, the URS did not run a health resort. In 2012, the health minister was from the SPS and in 2014 from the SNS. The illusion that someone in the URS was leading the health care, when the SNS entered the government, is simply not true. What I have to say is, since DS MPs are constantly calling for SNS to work badly, proving that individual maternity homes are closed. They're closed because you're just peoplely said, you stole money. Instead of the money you got from the province, from the Republic you invested in...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2368	Please, Ambassador Alexander Martinovic that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2369	Now I'm going to explain to you Mrs. Gojkovic what they were doing. So, they get money from the Republic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2370	Don't explain anything to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2371	I'll explain it to the people of Serbia. So, they get money from the Republic, they get money from the province, and instead of getting medical supplies, they write up a tender for the painting of the maternity building, they blow up the prices five times, so they take a little bit of themselves, so a little goes to the foreigners, and then a little goes to the contractors, and then of course the maternity ward doesn't have the conditions to work. It's happening in Ruma, it's happening in Vrbas, it's happening in many municipalities in Vojvodina since 2000 and on this side. Now those who stole money say it's the SNS' fault, and it's not us who did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2372	Please, as long as we don't present such qualifications. We're not a courtroom.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2373	For these qualifications, Mrs Gojkovic, I have evidence, and the competent state authorities are already dealing with it, and I wouldn't be surprised if someone had been prosecuted and processed recently because he had not purposely spent money on treating the sick citizens of RS. So the SNS does not bear any responsibility for the situation in which Serbian health is located. We are trying in every way possible to raise the level of health care in RS to a higher degree compared to the state in which it is now located. But for the sake of the public, I would like to emphasise something Minister Krstic has already said several times -- this bill does not deal with systemic health care. So we're facing the fact that this bill requires some problems to be solved in walking. Because problems are so big that simple life can't wait for you to pass the system laws. So today, the problem of lack of money in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund must be solved. Who's to blame for not having that money? Are you saying it's the SNS' fault that you imagine, in two years' time, she hasn't been able to repair the situation in Serbia that someone has systematically destroyed for 12 years? Well, unfortunately, gentlemen of the DS to this extent, you have ruined Serbia, that there is no wizard who in two years can solve everything that you have done with a bad policy in all segments of social life, even in the field of health, you have managed to destroy. Don't tell me someone in the SNS was scaring the people with the bird flu. If someone from the SNS told the people – if you don't vaccinate from the bird flu, you will die, neither will I know what cataclysm, etc., that none of this turns out to be true. I don't know where you were from the DS when the health minister you elected, who you supported, who was the minority "holy cow" because in every one of your governments, he had to be the health minister, went to be treated in the Federal Republic of Germany? Well, I'm sorry you didn't ask him - Mr. Minister, if you're doing such a good job and if the situation in Serbian health is really so ideal, why don't you treat yourself in Serbia, but go to Germany? No, you didn't ask him that then. You didn't ask him what there was no scissors, which has no gauze, which has no strings, which has no drugs, which people can't cure, but you waited for the people to defeat you in the elections for the first time in 2012, and the second time, much more convincing in 2014, so when you barely crossed the censorship. Then you remembered your brilliant ideas about what to do in Serbian health care. What SNS insists on asking you is – why did you not implement these brilliant ideas, if you are truly brilliant, from 2000 to 2012? And finally, why don't you spend the day today at the AP Vojvodina level where you still exercise power today, while not enjoying any degree of political legitimacy in Vojvodina? So, here you have Vojvodina still under your authority so let's see how the health system works, where you're in power?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2374	You've come forward after the amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2375	Here I go. I can list up to tomorrow illegal tenders, high contracts, heavy fees that have been taken in medical facilities in Vojvodina a little bit to me, little strangers, little contractors, and that's what we do today. And no one will say that – my party is guilty, or it's my fault. No, it's SNS, it's Alexander Vukic's fault, because, for God's sake, in two years, he hasn't been able to solve all those problems that we've generated for 12 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2376	I must now give Dr. Janko Veselinović my word in the Rules of Procedure, and I wanted Borko Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2377	Yes, 105, 106, I am sorry to spoil this debate that you tolerate, and I just wanted to point to your indiscipline that all the MPs and citizens of Serbia who are following this transmission could now see. So, we are talking about the debate on income tax and social and health care, about the position of the Autonomous province, bird flu, etc. So you show that you do not have the same approach when it comes to representatives of your political party and when it comes above all to representatives of the political group Boris Tadic NDS, the ZZS, so I ask that you take care of it in the future and ask that we enter into a vote in the day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2378	Thank you. I don't notice at all that anyone from Boris Tadic's parliamentary group has been reporting in the last hour. It's your right to vote on it. I accept your suggestions. I give my word to Borislav Stefanovic and then I will apply the Rules of Procedure. The replica circle is closing and we're going to the agenda. If you've noticed, I didn't extend my day's work. By 18 hours, we'll finish exactly, to apply the Rules of Procedure, if we allow MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2379	Madam President, you should have applied it when a colleague Martinovic said just before that we stole the money, in those words, and you noticed it. But I find that such a rude qualification, you as a lawyer know that he looks at me and says, "You stole money, it's a very awkward thing, and I think he deserves a warning." But, okay. I think it's a habit, since Mr. Martinovic is the freshest from the SRS, so he hasn't gone through that European variant yet, but he is a man who, I don't mind, says – what is it you're expert in talking about? That's not right. First, there are doctors and lawyers and economists here. We're discussing amendments today. It is not necessary for someone to be a doctor to see what is going on here, but it is necessary that someone who receives five salaries does not have the right to tell us whether we are as professional as Mr. Martinovic. First, let them regulate themselves. This law does not deal with systemic health care, but it does deal with taking a large amount in euro from the Health Fund, where our health care is in a very difficult situation regardless of, I repeat, which none of you will benefit if you continue to accuse the opposition without reason, and you have been responsible for two years. So, the question of what you're going to do to solve this thing, and we're solving through partial legal regulations where the money flows from one fund to another and where no benefit can be made. Those feuds you're talking about, so now we don't have any feuds. Now we only have one hand of one master and I know it suits you, and for that same man you said was the greatest morale I'm not going to say what...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2380	Now you're doing the same thing that you resent others. I ask all MPs, if you object to one another, not to repeat it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2381	I'm done. When the minister of "holy cow" from G17 was mentioned, I thought he was talking about Minister Dinkic whom you took as finance minister, and he thinks of the minister of eternal health.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2382	Tell me, is it a replica or are you using the right... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2383	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2384	Well, then time's up. You know Minister Dinkic was in all governments. Thank you. (Employee Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I will allow you and you are right, but any new violation of the Rules of Procedure that is misused two minutes less for the parliamentary group, if we stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2385	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 109, you were obliged to give notice, especially to an MP who addresses the other MP directly. He even admitted it himself, and it's really pointless for someone who's been getting paid, and for months he hasn't come to work, to complain to someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2386	Thank you. You all told each other everything you had, obviously. I'm moving on to the agenda. Mirko Chikiriz called, he's been waiting an hour. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2387	Thank you, Madam Chairman. It's a very difficult situation in both the health system and the PIO Fund. We would certainly be much more qualified and easier to talk about this topic and justify the reasons for the inflows into the Health Insurance Fund and the filling of the pension fund if we had the right picture of the situation in one and another fund, but it's gone. We didn't even have the right picture of the situation when we had twice passed the law on turning debt of health institutions into public debt, i.e. in debt to all citizens of Serbia. Once, at the end of 2012, it was 130m euros, and in early 2013, in the first quarter, it seems to me to be about three and a half, four billion dinars. I am sorry that Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic is not here now, because she promised us at the time, since when we passed the first law on the conversion of 130m euros into public debt, the minister promised to provide us with lists of all health institutions that did not work well and used the funds of the Health Insurance Fund correctly. On the other hand, we had a situation where the management of certain hospitals, health care facilities, health homes did a great job. I was looking for something that everyone seems to be asking me today, so let's see what money we have at our disposal so we can talk qualified, and then let's see who did the debt and on what basis the debt was created and how it's possible that for 10, 15 years the hospital would be in a blockade. Madam Chairman, since I'm going to be out of time, I'm going to use the MP's time, if you'll excuse me, about the amendment. Madam Minister has promised to receive that information within 30 days. We never got them. The following year, a new debt of four billion dinars was created only in the first quarter. The health minister's reaction back then was very harsh. She wrote a letter to all the directors of the health care institution that stated that she could no longer tolerate such public service and irresponsiblely available to the Fund for Health Insurance and that in case such reporting continues, she would be in a position to file criminal charges. It's a classic reaction of all health ministers in the last 20, 30 years. Are we for the pension fund to be full, pensions to be paid regularly, not to be reduced, but to be increased? I think we're all up for it. Are we in favour of having better health care? We did. How many of our citizens stand out for health insurance? Somewhere around 220, 230 euros, which is among the smallest in Europe. We're all aware of the problem, and the money just doesn't. When I listened to Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, I thought we lived in Switzerland. This is how the health system is arranged, wonderful doctors, wonderful medical staff, wonderful monitoring services, all phenomenally functioning, doing their best, making superhuman efforts, and we at the level of health care of the worst in Europe, worse than Albania. The waiting lists of large, many elemental devices for diagnostics and treatment do not work, from the radiation apparatus, so if, for example, within 30 or 40 days after surgery, you do not get air therapy, or you do not start with it, the chance of increasing mortality is enormous. We're the first in the number of cardiovascular diseases, we're the first in the degree of antibiotic use, we're the first in degree in the use of drugs for calming down, antidepressants, and that's all because of one inherited condition. What does this government need to do now? If he does, he'll have our support with both hands. It simply needs to reform the health system thoroughly and allow competition in health insurance. It's something that exists all over the world. Secondly, every penny invested in health care, especially in prevention, returns multiple times. We've only been investing a little more in prevention for the past few years. I wouldn't make any special distinction between the 1990s and the year after 2000. The fact is, it wasn't good for either of us, but I know that after 2000, let's just say, Chuck got a scanner, a colleague from Chačka was saying that there was a general celebration. Simply, both donors and the Health Insurance Fund and many companies participated in the purchase of scanners, etc. Imagine a city so important that it has its own hospital that it doesn't have one of the basic diagnostic devices. On the other hand, we do have phenomenal doctors and most of them are not corrupt, especially in smaller environments, rural areas, etc. We have world-renowned experts in all areas, but we also have a hohstappler the world has never seen. That's why I wouldn't look at that picture either black or white. In the 1990s, we didn't have bandages, patients bought drugs of suspicious origin, Chinese, flea markets, flea markets were established dioptria, and glasses were bought. I wouldn't celebrate that period at all. Afterwards, many donations came, but unfortunately the biggest ones were robbed. We also got a lot of diagnostics and treatment machines. As a result of the general public and the disorderly system, we are the last in Europe, that patients are dissatisfied, that doctors are unhappy, that medical staff is dissatisfied. What is now proposed by the amendments to the law, these are certainly extorted solutions in inherited condition, but if what we do does not do is we all become aware that it has to be done, in a year, two or three days we will tell the same stories and point the finger at each other – and it is this government, and it is the Minister of Health who is guilty. It is simply everyone in power who has not done what is done in the health system in all normal countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-28-0.u2388	As there are a few minutes to 18 hours left, it is impossible to plan a further course of debate. We continue the debate and work on these agenda points that we have left on Friday at 10.00 hours. I remind you that tomorrow is a special session at 4:00 p.m., and at 4:30 p.m., asking parliamentary questions to government members. Thank you.
