ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1263	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to present to you, at the beginning of this joint principle debate, the most important solutions containing the draft law on defence, the draft law on dispute settlement, the draft law on amendments to the Law on litigation and security, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on non-parony proceedings and the draft law amending the Law on enforcement and security, proposed by the Government and prepared by the Ministry of Justice. In the beginning, I will present to you the draft law on defence. An important law on public defence has been introduced further, now far, in 1991. The fact itself points to the need to pass a whole new law that will regulate the organisation and way of work of the body that performs the tasks of legal protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province, or local self-government units in a more precise and modern way. Since the time of the adoption of the Law on Public Defence, there have been a number of significant changes in the constitutional arrangement and organisation of state authorities, financing public needs and regulating property and other property-law relations. The current public defence law did not determine the concept of defence and defence attorneys, nor did it lay down the basic principles on which defence work should be based. This law is the very name of the defence attorney's office inadequately determined by giving the word "public" in its name. Given that the protection of public interest is not a primary function of the defence, it is a protection of the property rights of the entities represented, in particular by the state, territorial autonomy and local self-government units. The bill creates conditions for the best quality protection of property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, addressing in a unique way the question of how to achieve the defence function and the problems identified in the application of the applicable Law on Public Defence. The draft law lays down the concept of defence as a body carrying out legal protection tasks for the property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province, or the local self-government unit. In order to carry out property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia, instead of the republic's public defence, a state defence attorney's office is established to carry out defence tasks for the protection of property rights and the interests of Serbia. The draft law provides that the activities of the Attorney General for the Protection of Property Rights and the Interest of the Autonomous Province and of the Units of Local Self-Government shall be carried out by their attorneys whose office and organisation, as well as other issues of importance for work, determines the decision of the Autonomous Province, or the decision of the unit of local self-government, in accordance with the basis for the promotion, editing and organisation of the defence prescribed by this law. The significant paper contained in the draft law in relation to the applicable law is that it accurately determines the jurisdiction of the state's defence as the protector of the Republic of Serbia in proceedings before courts, arbitration, administration authorities and other competent authorities, and in the case where the Republic of Serbia has the position of party or interference whose rights and obligations are decided in the procedure. The jurisdiction of the State's Attorney's Office has also been extended in relation to the Republic of Public Attorney's Office in respect of the entities it represents. The draft law lays down the authority of the State Attorney's Office to represent state authorities and special organisations that have no legal personality, then national authorities and special organisations that have legal personality, whose funding is provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as public institutions whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, whose funding is provided from the state budget. In addition, the State's Attorney General may, on the basis of the special powers conferred on him, represent the proceedings before courts, arbitration, administration authorities and other competent authorities and other legal entities whose founder is Serbia. In view of the indeterminateness of the rules relating to the representation of the Republic of Serbia before foreign and international courts and arbitration and other competent authorities abroad, the draft law precisely regulates the jurisdiction of the State's Attorney's Office for representation in these cases. In order to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia more adequately before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the special paper contained in the bill is the introduction of the power of the State's Attorney General to represent the Republic of Serbia before that court. According to current regulations, the conduct of these tasks is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, which is not a comprehensive solution since the Ministry of Justice is the authority of the state administration. The affairs of representation before the European Court of Human Rights shall be carried out by the deputy attorney general, who shall also be appointed representative of the Republic of Serbia before that court. In addition to the classical jurisdiction of the Advocate General with regard to the initiation of the procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality of the law, i.e. for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of other general legal acts, if it considers that the law, i.e. another general legal act, has violated the property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia, a new solution constitutes the jurisdiction of the State's attorney to notify the competent authorities of the need to amend the rules in the event that the decision of the European Court of Human Rights indicates the non-compliance of domestic law with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The draft law provides that State Attorney’s Office’s tasks are carried out by the State’s Attorney and Deputy Attorney General. The Attorney General is also responsible for the government and the Ministry of Justice, and the Deputy Attorney General is responsible for his work. In this way, a hierarchical structure in the work of the state's attorney's office is being established in order to make it more efficient. In this respect, the draft law also introduces the principle of devolution and substitution in the work of the State's Attorney General, as well as the right of the State's Advocate to issue general mandatory instructions and instructions for mandatory handling in certain cases. The draft law lays down the powers of the Advocate's Assistant and the Attorney General to take the actions of representation in the proceedings before the court, the authority of the administration or other competent authorities. The bill also determines the position of the State's Attorney and Deputy Attorney General, the transfer and deployment of deputies from the seat or department of the State's Attorney's Office, as well as the procedure and conditions for the appointment of the State's Attorney and Deputy Attorney General. The special newspaper contained in the draft law is a solution whereby the deputy attorney general is required to have the appropriate level of knowledge of one of the foreign languages in which the proceedings are conducted before that International Court or other international body. In addition to other conditions, the deputy attorney general, who is a representative of the Republic of Serbia, needs to possess and confirm the active knowledge of English, or French, as the official languages in which the proceedings are conducted before that court. The proposal for a law, unlike the applicable Law on Public Defence, also contains provisions relating to staff in the State's Attorney's Office, and, above all, provisions relating to the position of the rights and obligations of defence assistants and defence trainees. As from the Constitution of the established right of self-editation of the Autonomous Region and the Local Self-Government Unit, the draft Law on Defence does not establish the defences of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, but only the basic principles for the functioning of these bodies are laid down. I will present to you the basic solutions containing the draft law on dispute settlement. The national strategy for judicial reform for the period from 2013 to 2018 and the accompanying action plan as one of the most important priorities has identified the resolution of lagging cases, based on a detailed programme based among other things and on the resolution of a significant number of judicial cases through mediation. The main objective of which is to adopt the Bill's proposal is to create normative assumptions that disputed relations between the parties through negotiation are voluntarily resolved in the mediation process, with the help of a neutral mediator. We will agree that it is always better, if possible, to find a compromise solution to the dispute rather than go into a long-term, exhausting and often uncertain lawsuit or other procedure, during which, as a rule, there is a disorder of good neighbourly, professional, business and other relations. Dispute settlement through mediation is also extremely important from the state's point of view, as widespread application of this way of resolving disputed relations can significantly relieve courts. The draft law on dispute settlement was created as an expression of the need to improve and improve the existing normative framework, which would speed up the application of mediation in disputed relations in which parties can freely apply their requirements and fully comply with EU Directive 2008/52 of 21 May 2008, on certain aspects of mediation in civil and commercial matters. In the process of drafting the draft law, the rules of the UN Commission on International Trade Law on Peace of 1980 and the model of the 2002 Law on International Trade Action, as well as the legal solutions and practices of individual countries in the neighbourhood that have the same legal tradition as the Republic of Serbia, were also taken into account. A public debate was also conducted in the process of draft law in the second half of 2013, and the final text of the bill was established following the examination of the proposal by all interested parties and the consistency of the draft law with that EU directive. I would like to refer to the most significant newspaper that the draft law on intervening in dispute resolution contains. The key change in relation to the current Mediation Intermediation Act, which may also be considered the most important shift in relation to the previous legal solution, is a solution that provides that the dispute settlement agreement may have the power of the executive document, of course, with the cumulative fulfillment of the following conditions. That the agreement contains a statement by the debtor which accepts the agreement as an executive title, so-called the enforcement clauses, as well as that the signatures of the parties and intermediaries in the agreement have been approved by the court or the public register. Of course, that agreement will not be allowed to be implemented if its conclusion is not permitted, if the agreement is contrary to the public order or if the agreement is not suitable for enforcement or the subject of enforcement is impossible. That legal solution is also in full agreement with Article 6. Directive 2008/52, which refers to the need to ensure the enforcement of the agreement reached in the intermediation process. A significant advantage has been given to the alternative way of resolving the dispute through mediation through the facilitated enforcement of an act that has been agreed by the parties to the existing dispute on the rights which they can freely dispose of. The application of the mediation procedure, according to the proposed legislative solution, is possible in all those disputes where the parties are free to dispose of their claims, unless the exclusive jurisdiction of the court or other body is prescribed, which means that the area of application of this alternative way of resolving disputes is indeed large, involving economic disputes, consumer disputes, property disputes, disputes in the field of environmental protection and others. The intervention is certainly not possible in cases of domestic violence, as well as in those disputes that are not similar to being resolved through mediation. The application of the principle of confidentiality in the mediation procedure has been elaborated at all stages of the procedure, which is important for the reason that parties in the dispute are encouraged to participate in a peaceful dispute settlement procedure, without the concern that in the event that no agreement is reached in the process, they will suffer adverse consequences in the subsequent proceedings or other proceedings. In addition, if the parties opt for mediation as a way of resolving the dispute, this must by no means be a reason to lose the right to initiate court proceedings due to the expiry of the deadline. According to the proposed legislative solution, the launch of the intermediation procedure results in a stalemate of a claim which may last for a maximum period of 60 days from the date of conclusion of the accession agreement in relation to the request for which the intervention procedure is carried out, after which the limitation period continues to run. As regards the provision of quality of intervention, the draft law provides for conditions to be met by intermediaries. The Ministry of Justice shall issue a permit to intervene with a period of three years, during which intermediaries must have a certain number of intervention procedures to renew the licence. The authorisation shall be renewed for a period of five years. As one of the key conditions for the authorisation of intervention, basic training for intervention has been prescribed and completed. In order to ensure quality training, the Ministry of Justice determines the basic training programme and gives consent to specialized training. In addition, the Ministry of Justice issues and permits organisations implementing training programmes for intermediaries. The bill also establishes a register of intermediaries as a public central electronic database run by the justice ministry, which will in any case allow more availability of intermediaries to persons interested in resolving the disputed relationship through mediation. You also have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Prosecution. At the beginning of the presentation of this bill, I would like to point out that the proposed law contains only the most necessary amendments and additions necessary to address certain problems in the application of this law, which have arisen as a result of decisions of the Constitutional Court which have established the non-constitutional nature of certain provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure, as well as the need to amend certain provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure, since they have proved to be non-discriminatory in the current application of this law. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Justice continues to work on more comprehensive amendments to the Law on Prosecution, which should be discussed in the National Assembly during the regular autumn session. The most important solutions contained in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure are the following: The draft law complies with the provisions of Article 35. Law on litigation, with the provision of Article 142, paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the court judges in the council and that the law can provide for individual judges in certain matters and, at the same time, extended functional jurisdiction, or tax-listed, certain disputes in which an individual judge judges. The provisions of Article 85 have been amended. The law on litigation by setting out a precise circle of persons who can be proxies, which is in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision to advertise the non-constitutional provision of Article 85(1). A law on litigation, according to which a power of attorney can only be a lawyer. In order to facilitate delivery, the draft law also amended the provision of Article 143(2). The law on litigation by prescribing that the court is required under official duty to obtain the party's address from the competent authority if the counterparty is unable to obtain it. The addition of Article 294 was also carried out. The law on litigation, provided that the court is obliged to hold a hearing before the ruling on the rejection of the action, at which the prosecutor will be given the opportunity to declare his refusal. In this way, better protection of the prosecutor's rights is achieved in the proceedings in case the complaint is dismissed. One of the most important amendments adopted by the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure refers to the reduction of the censorship for the declaration of audit in property-legal disputes. It is proposed that the revision can be declared in property-legal disputes if the value of the dispute exceeds the dinar equivalent of 40,000 euros in the average course of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of the lawsuit, instead of the current 100 thousand euros, or in economic disputes, if the issue of the dispute exceeds the dinar equivalent of 100 000 euros on the middle course of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of the lawsuit, instead of the valid 300,000 euros. The reasons for the reduction of the censorship for the declaration of the audit are that the existing legal solution makes the value limit too high, as well as the need for greater social balance and greater availability of this legal remedy. I'll give you an example from everyday practice. The housing estates of which exceeds 100,000 euros in dinar equivalent are often meeting in Belgrade, Novi Sad, possibly Kragujevac and Nis and in a rare other Serbian city when it comes to an average citizen, which means that the excessive audit price of 100,000 euros has really made it impossible for citizens to be equal enough. The proposed addition of Article 428. The law on litigation provides that an objective period of five years from the date on which the decision has become effective shall not apply to the submission of a re-trial proposal in the event that the party acquires the possibility to apply a decision of the European Court of Human Rights which establishes a violation of human rights, as well as in the event that the Constitutional Court has established in a constitutional appeal an infringement or a denial of human rights or minority rights and freedoms covered by the Constitution in a litigation procedure. This could have been of an impact on making a more favourable decision. Such a solution shall be in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision approving the non-constitutional provision of Article 428(3). Law on litigation. Now I would like to point out to you the most important solution that contains the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on non-partisan procedure. If it is said about the Law on Public Defence, which was adopted in 1991, that it was already well overcome and outdated, what to say about the current Law on the Non-Parcial Procedure, which was brought on the basis of the 1974 SFRJ Constitution, the Republic Law of 1982, which was applied from 1 January 1983, the Law that was passed at the time of a socio-political and economic system that was long since abandoned and which suffered radical changes after the break-up of the Yugoslav Federation and the former state union. For this reason, it was more than necessary that this procedural law also definitely be brought into line with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. A number of provisions of this law have actually been and have been adopted in order to comply with the applicable legislation. The second reason for the amendments and additions of the Law on non-partisan proceedings was examined in the need for Serbian procedural legislation in the field of protection of persons deprived of their business ability to comply with European standards, the legal views of the European Court of Human Rights, and above all with the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, issue R-994, in principle 14, which provides that, I quote, the lack of business capacity should be timed with a periodic review. In fact, the current Act on non-partisan procedure provides that the deprivement measure is permanent, and the decision to deprive the business ability can only be changed on the proposal of authorised persons. The next recommendations of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, the draft law, introduces an institute called the time of verification. In a solution that deprives a person of his or her professional capacity, the court determines a deadline to verify whether there are reasons for the continued duration of the measure, which cannot be longer than three years. When the time for verification expires, the court under official duty examines whether there are still reasons why a person is deprived of his business ability. If the Court finds that the reasons why the person has been deprived of his or her business ability have ceased, the decision on the return of his or her business ability shall be taken, or if he finds that the state of mental health of the person has been completely deprived of his or her business ability so improved that there is sufficient and partial depravation of his or her business ability, the court shall then determine the partial depravation of that person's business ability. The draft law provides for the possibility for the court, under official duty or at the proposal of the custody authority and other authorised persons, to decide on a return to business capacity before the time of verification expires if it finds that there are no more reasons why a person is deprived of his or her business ability. The same rules apply to the out-of-party procedure for the extension of parental ageing. The most important reason for accession to the adoption of this law is the need to bring Serbia's non-partisan legislation into line with the Law on Public Registration. In particular, the section on the assembly of documents has been amended and adapted to the legal system in which the main holders of such activities will be public notebooks. Also, while working on this legal text, the Justice Ministry has followed a recommendation from Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers number R-8612 on measures to prevent and reduce court burdens since 16 September 1986. So back in 1986, in its recommendation to the Council of Europe, it proposes that all those non-trial jobs should be entrusted to other state bodies. As an example of such transactions, a desert procedure is listed. According to this recommendation, and following the example of the solution of many European countries, such as France and Austria, as well as the countries created in the area of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for example Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, the bill provides for the possibility of individual extraparation proceedings in property matters being conducted by a public notary as a trustee of the court. The draft law made a clear distinction between trusting the implementation of the out-of-party procedure to the public notary and sending concrete legal matters to the public notary. The decision to entrust the procedure to the public register shall be taken by the Judge of the Court of First Instance as the natural judge to whom the case has been assigned as competent according to the annual schedule. The reference of the legal matter to a specific public notary shall be made by the President of the Court as the Head of the Court of Justice. The bill provides for criteria setting out a public notary to which a legal matter will be referred, which is particularly important for places where there are a number of public notebooks, thus preventing corruption from being possible. Namely, if there are several public notebooks in the court area, the court is obliged to grant them cases evenly according to the alphabetic order of their last names. In the event that the principle of alphabetical order has been violated because the public notary has justifiably refused to accept the entrusted job, the first next item shall be entrusted to that public notary to which the minimum case is assigned. The bill also provides for certain additional guarantees to ensure the legality of the work of the public notary as a trustee of the court. The most significant such guarantee is the possibility of judicial oversight being conducted in two ways. First, the court which has entrusted the public notary with carrying out the desert procedure is obliged to supervise its work and to reach a solution to the confiscation of the confidential procedure if the public notary is working at the expense of the parties, if it creates excessive costs, unduly delays the proceedings or when other justified reasons so require. Second, against a solution made by a public notary as a trustee of the court in the desert proceedings, a complaint may be made under the same conditions and by the same rules as when a decision is brought by a court. During the work on this law and public debate, it must be true that the legal and professional public does not unanimously support the idea of carrying out some out-of-party proceedings to public notebooks. However, when the arguments pro et contra are considered, it is concluded that they weigh the positive sides of such an approach. First, the extra-parnical proceedings will be concluded faster, giving a direct contribution to the achievement of the constitutional principle of justice within a reasonable period of time. Comparative legal experience shows that public notebooks carry out extra-parnical proceedings faster than courts. The reason for this lies in good faith is that participants can communicate more directly with the public notary than with the judge. How effective public notebooks are when we compare the duration of Serbia's desert procedure where the process is conducted by desert courts and in Croatia, let's say, where the abandonment process is conducted by public notebooks. This comparison is very useful because the inheritance and extrapar law is in a very similar way normized in these two countries. Secondly, citizens will be facilitated access to the public register as an out-of-pared body. The great advantage of public records in relation to courts is that notaries are more accessible to citizens. Namely, there is no basic court or judicial unit in every municipality, but there must be at least one public notebook and its public record office in each municipality. In densely populated municipalities where more intensive economic activity is carried out, more public records offices can be allowed to be opened, so that 25,000 inhabitants can be one public notary. Thirdly, a significant number of judges will be relieved of outsider cases and engaged in other departments, for example in litigation, which indirectly contributes to the effectiveness of other court proceedings. For example, 160 judges were engaged in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 during the conduct of desert proceedings, i.e. desert debates, and 216 judges were involved in the first quarter of 2013. I'd like to remind you that the desert procedure is just one of many outsider procedures. Experiences from the country in the environment show that trusting desert procedures enables public notaries to move a significant number of judges to other judicial departments and contribute to the faster implementation of other proceedings. The implementation of the matrimonial procedure by the public notary will have no negative consequences, which is due to the nature of the out-of-party proceedings, as well as the fact that the applicable legal norms provide sufficient guarantees, both in terms of the professional competence of public notebooks and in terms of their independence and impartiality. In the legal public, arguments have been made that public notebooks are not trained enough to carry out litigation procedures. Such claims simply do not stand. With regard to the professional training of public notebooks, the rules that exist in the positive Serbian law ensure that public records can be performed only by those who, according to professional preparation and experience in the affairs of legal professions, are not behind the judges at all. The applicant for a public register must have more working experience in the legal profession after a judicial examination has been passed and must pass a public record exam. The public record exam covers legal institutes of importance for public records, including the material of civil and material law and out-of-party proceedings. What makes the public record profession not lags behind the court, is also the obligation to continue to perfect. Public notebooks are required to attend seminars and other forms of professional training established by the public register chamber and the Ministry of Justice. Infringement of that duty is a disciplinary offense for which the penalty for the right to exercise of activity can be imposed. In addition to the above, I would point out that, as soon as possible, the congregation procedure will be referred to so-called ‘. the omnibus laws to be amended and complemented by around 30 laws governing certain issues in the jurisdiction of public notebooks, all in order to create conditions for the start of work of public notebooks, as provided for in the Law on Public Registration and whose application will take place as of 1 September 2014. In the end, I'd like to introduce you to the draft law amending the law on enforcement and security. The reason for bringing these by the size of small ones, so-called. Interventional amendments to the Law on Enforcement and Security are necessary to address the problem that has arisen in the practice of functioning of the perpetrators in relation to their local jurisdiction, which has arisen as a result of the start of application of the new Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, which has started to apply since 1 January of this year. This law established 66 basic courts, instead of earlier 34, which were established under the former Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. In view of the fact that, according to the applicable provisions of the Law on Enforcement and Security, enforcement officers are appointed as an area of the basic and commercial court, which corresponded to the network of basic courts provided for in the earlier applicable Law on Courts and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, it is necessary to bring the Law on Enforcement and Security into line with the new Law on Headquarterss and Public Prosecutors. The draft law provides that enforcement officers are to be appointed for the area of higher court, instead of for the area of the basic court, for the reason that such a solution is more comprehensive, since the territorial organisation of higher courts has been established and has not changed in a larger volume for many years. The draft law also contains a transitional provision addressing the situation created after the entry into force of the new Law on Courts and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, which refers to the perpetrators appointed in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Law on Enforcement and Security. I would point out that at the Ministry of Justice, work is under way on major amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security, I would even dare to say – not amendments and additions, but a full revision of the law, whose text, to the fullest extent, nor the most recent lawyers in Serbia, simply cannot understand. This revision will cover all the issues raised in the current application of this law. According to the planned dynamics, I expect these changes and additions to be found in the assembly procedure during the regular autumn session of the National Assembly. Thanks to your attention, I hope that after the debate in principle and in particular, the proposed five laws will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1264	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Neđo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1265	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, as well as yesterday, continue to work and discuss the set of judicial laws, which are primarily procedural and legal. We also stand at the point that all these laws, at least when it comes to the position of the SPS parliamentary group, should be accepted for the reasons that I yesterday as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and the additional proposals and reasons why these texts of the law should be accepted are the following. The SPS parliamentary group has always consistently insisted on an even more consistent application of the universal legal institutes and at the same time universal principles. One of these universal principles is the availability of justice to citizens, which means the availability of courts to citizens. Also, one of the universal principles is respect for the right to a fair trial, as well as respect for the right to trial within a reasonable time. It is these procedural and legal laws, apart from the Law on Public Defence, that it is a good path that the Ministry of Justice has set out as a proposer in the making of these laws, that these universal principles and universal legal principles are fully respected. What it is burdening, which is a mortgage for the judiciary from the previous period, and especially after the 2010 judicial reform failed, are facts that cannot be doubted, above all, the fact of the inequity of judicial practice, which is why even the situation arises that in the same court the two major same courts appear as decision-makers. Not even the Supreme Court of Cassation, which is legally competent and obliged to balance judicial practice, is not able to do so, given that neither appeals courts, such as hierarchical, seniors and those who decide by appeal do not contribute to a level playing field. The next burden and, freely said, the mortgage from the previous period is a huge number of cases which are not resolved in courts, with a constant inflow that significantly contributes to the degree of urgency in courts being reduced to the least possible level, the smallest degree possible, so that the judges are mostly qualified as unsustainable, primarily for reasons that they do not bring adequate programmes to solve the inflow of cases. Why is such an introduction to these procedural proposals of the law excluded from me as an authorised representative of the SPS? It is precisely because these bill proposals that appear before us today, and which we are discussing, suggest the possibility of these problems being solved in some way. Let's start with the first law I'm going to affirm in terms of solving these problems, which is the Law on Intervention in Dispute Resolution. It is this law that allows courts to relax through mediation, to release the ballast of a large number of cases. Of course, this in no way reduces or eliminates the obligation of the courts themselves, and especially the President of the Courts to adopt a programme on the resolution of a large number of cases, which have not yet been brought to date. To date, unfortunately, no judge's evaluation rule has been passed yet. To date, unfortunately, no criteria have been adopted on the basis of which the work of the judges is worth it. Why? Because the relic of the failed reform of the judiciary, a relic of something that has existed since 1953, when the last time, fellow MPs and citizens, to know, was passed just one rule on the assessment of the work of judges. It's been a long time since 1953. More than two decades without clear rules and criteria yet to be assessed by the judges. What is important to point out is the fact that, now through mediation in dispute settlement, there is the possibility that at least one part of the case, where parties through autonomy will, therefore, fully agreed and evenly in one procedure that has been defined by the proposal for this law to intervene in dispute settlement, many disputes, both before the initiation of court proceedings and during court proceedings, are resolved. That is why the SPS parliamentary group considers this to be an extremely good way to correct those shortcomings of a previously applicable law, which was called otherwise, the Mediation Act, not the Intermediation Act, now more termically than citizens and a simple people's language, to realize that citizens do not have to bring all disputed relations to the court, that they can handle them with the help of a mediator who is professional, trained, who has a license, who is obliged to respect the autonomy of the parties, who is obliged to protect the equality of parties and who is obliged to contribute to this agreement. Why is this law a way to do much more when it comes to resolving disputed relations between citizens, which there are many? Exactly what was pointed out in the opening part by the minister, the fact that the concluded agreement is at the same time an executive correction. What's the consequence? As a result, we do not have to wait for a verdict, as executive documents, and only then to initiate a mandatory collection procedure, in accordance with the provisions of the law on enforcement and security, but an automatically concluded agreement, approved by the court, with the recognition of the debtor that he will settle the debt to the trustee may constitute an executive title on the basis of which the mandatory collection procedure is carried out. Citizens need to know that this is very useful for them. In this way, citizens should be stimulated when it comes to resolving issues and disputed relations. What seems important to me in relation to other laws, above all in the Law on Public Defence, should be pointed out by the fact that finally the Law on Defence, and this to the State's Attorney's Office, some of the issues that have not been settled so far, first of all from jurisdiction, from representation. The papers of this law represent a wider circle of persons whose founders or state or unit of local self-government are. However, here, Minister, I would like to make a well-intentioned suggestion or a remark about the Law of Defence. Given that I myself participated in the creation of certain parts of this law, when it was still in the form of a draft by a working group working on the drafting of this law, there was a failure that in the provisions of this law was not a fully defined issue of local defences, particularly municipal and city attorneys. Why? It is indisputable that both the establishment and the organisation of defences, both municipal and urban, are defined by the decision of local self-government. There's absolutely no need for any controversy. It is the decisions, both the municipalities and the cities, that we are in a situation that some defenses are literally being wronged. They're being appointed as city administration services. That is how some kind of discrimination is being carried out by the Attorney General himself. In particular, in Užica, in the city where I come from, the defence office does not have the status that should have – an independent and independent body, but has the status of the city's administration, which is why the employees of this law have an adequate status, a status where profits are far less than the employees of the city's administrations, a status that is absolutely not reflected in the provisions of this law, or the proposed Law on State Attorney's Office. I think that in this part of the law should have been more complete, at least with some instructions and guidelines that relate exclusively to the establishment, organisation, and less to jurisdiction in local defences. With regard to the provisions of the Law on the Procedural Procedure, the SPS parliamentary group has, solely in order to respect those principles, which I have set out in the opening section, highlighted certain amendments with a view to improving the quality of the Law on the Procedural Procedure, when it comes to amending and supplementing them. These amendments relate, not to some crucial things, but more to the terminology issues that relate to the very text of the draft law on litigation. In particular, when it comes to the provision of an existing member of the 85th proposed text of the Law on Procedural Procedure, the question of the power of attorney has been defined, so that the norm is literally read and interpreted as being a lawyer, a blood relative in the right line, a brother, a sister, a mate, a representative of the legal aid service, a unit of local self-government that is a graduate lawyer with a passed judicial exam. Our amendment, this isn't an amendment debate, but it's important to point out, it's important to know, it's the fact that this is still an incomplete norm for the simple reason that the pronoun has to be a public notary and an enforcer. In the provisions of the Law on Public Records, there is such a thing. In practice, the perpetrator has the right to represent a natural person, especially where executions are carried out and when it comes to protecting the interests of creditors. In this situation, why would the circle of power not define itself in this way and make it far more complete? What we have seen as a parliamentary group, and through the amendment, we have also tried to improve this text of the bill, is a norm that has proved in practice to be completely inadequate and has affected the ineffectiveness of the work of the courts, and especially the violation of the law, the trial within a reasonable time. It is the provision of Article 193. It is the provision of a member by whom anyone who wishes to press charges is subject to an earlier applicable law to address the Advocate General in the city, municipal or public, or public, and to try to resolve the issue or dispute before the prosecutor within 60 days. It is logical that in practice such a legal situation has proved inadequate, it is logical that there has been a delay in the procedure and with this change that instead – it must address the defence, it can address the defence, it seems it has not helped me much to speed up the procedure. It's just that some standard's optional doesn't have to be normized. Do you mind? He can anyway, but he could do it without systematicization in the very text of the law. That is why we believe that the best thing to do is to delete this provision. Finally, what is most important when it comes to the issue of this procedural law, the Law on the Prosecution is what the Proposer has done in the best possible way, which has made it possible to provide as much legal certainty as possible for citizens and to ensure that justice is available in the most vulnerable way, and this is the issue of emergency legal medicine in the particular case of audit. The reduction of the property price, or value previously defined in the law to 100,000 euros as a condition for submitting an audit, an emergency legal remedy to 40,000 euros is certainly a good solution. However, what the Socialist Party of Serbia and the parliamentary group thinks, by handling its programme, with its ideas principles, above all, respect for social justice, is the fact that this censorship may also appear as high. Citizens should be able to use all legal means without great restrictions, without the intention of burdening the courts especially the Supreme Cassation Court with an unnecessary number of cases. That is why we intervened with the amendment, believing that this property censorship can also be brought down, because this way we can enable citizens to have the right to appeal and to appeal and to an emergency legal remedy in a particular case as many citizens as possible through the reduction of this censorship. What is particularly pointed out by the proposings are the provisions of the Law on non-parny proceedings which are also related to the provisions of the Law on Public Registration. I just have to remind you that we've had a lot of controversy about these legal issues recently when a new network of courts was set up. Why? Because the greatest criticism and the greatest number of criticisms in relation to the network of courts and the Ministry of Justice as proposing were precisely because the availability of justice would not be possible by reducing the number, whether the courts, or the judicial units, given that they would not be able to carry out that part of the cases in front of courts that are bound to verify the contract, the confirmation, the issuing of the documents. It's one big part of the job that's tied right to the outsider procedure. It seems to me now that the Ministry of Justice's position at that time appears to be completely justified. Why? Because it is now evident that a large part of the jurisdiction is being removed from the courts and it is obvious that this large part of jurisdiction is being transferred to public notebooks in the procedure which is now prescribed by the amendment and supplementation of the Law on extraparnical procedure. The SPS parliamentary group welcomes it. It welcomes the fact that, with the beginning of the work of public notebooks, we will have the opportunity to relieve both desert proceedings and other legal affairs that are being transferred to public records by the system defined here, the work of the courts, the judges who will be relocated to other affairs, who will receive other matter to deal with, which will be tried in other disputes and thus relax the courts from a large number of cases. The only thing that a well-intentioned suggestion in this direction could be is the fact that, in the selection of public notebooks to which these transactions are transferred, it must be taken into account, among other things, in terms of expertise but also in terms of performance in the previous performance of the public record business. If the experience has shown that the public notary successfully performs the work without and this transferred jurisdiction, because by passing the law, it has received a certain amount of competence that it can use in practice, and if it is proved to be of quality in any case it must have a benefit to continue to operate and to obtain from the court what is now defined by this law as a transfer of jurisdiction. Finally, since I am running out of time, and I hope that we will continue the debate when there is a debate over the elected MPs on this subject, I would just like to point out once again that the MP group of the SPS is really consistently and persistently seeking the best possible solutions in order for citizens to feel justice, in order to achieve justice through judicial protection, and that judicial protection is achieved before courts that are competent, professional, qualified and successful in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1266	The word is from the MP Vesna Besarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister and fellow MPs, we see the Law on Defence, the State's Attorney's Office as a very important law because it regulates a body that performs legal protection, property interests and rights of the RS. Thus, it is a very important state body with significant government functions. He appeared in our legal system, to perform his post after World War II. There were several laws that regulated his work. The law Mr. Minister mentioned, which was passed in 1991, is indeed in today's conditions unsuitable. At a time when he was brought in, and then he proved to us men of the profession to be dreary, not detailed enough, a law that did not regulate issues that were important to the work and functioning of the then public defendership. However, by adopting, or by proposing a new law that we have before us, the Law on the State's Defence of Parliament's SDPS sees as a significant shift towards the regulation of a very important state body and welcomes the Justice Ministry's initiative to reform itself, redefines the role of this state body. I would only draw attention to a few significant newspapers that this law contains. After the analysis we have heard from Mr. Minister, I do not think it is necessary to further analyze, but I also think that attention should be paid to a few new things that deserve our interest not only as a lawyer but as a professional and political public. The first major newspaper is the introduction of representation by the RS state's defence before foreign and international courts and arbitration. This post was then held by the public defenders' office in the '60s, '70s and '80s and led very successfully. However, by moving that function and regulating in another way, it was the fact that the attorney generals left disputes to foreign courts and arbitration to legal services, i.e. legal teams, law offices, outside the defence. In this regard, I believe it is very important that the Government, on a proposal from the Advocates, can give power in a specific case to represent a person outside the D.A. and who has the necessary capacity to represent, whether it is specific knowledge, language knowledge, etc. I expect that such a situation will occur more rarely, not to say extremely, and of course, given that the government is deciding on such a proposal, it will be under some kind of necessary supervision by both the State's Attorney General and the Justice Department, which is now taking over the role of overseeing the state's defence. It's also a newspaper, and there's probably going to be some issues in the professional sphere, and this solution. It will likely be possible, seen as a restriction on the freedom of defence. However, we cannot forget, on the other hand, that the defence is a state body, a body that defends the property interests of the state and its units and as such belongs to the hierarchical system of government and supervision. Another newspaper that is also very important is representation by the state's defence before the European Court of Human Rights. The State Attorney's Office will represent the interests of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We know that a large number of disputes are being held before this European court. We know that some of the state's disputes are losing, that it is obliged to pay significant amounts and I believe that this proactive, professional role of the state's attorney and authorised persons by the state's attorney will contribute to resolving these disputes in a manner that needs to be resolved, but that Serbia's interest is protected better and longer. Also on this issue of representation before the European Court of Justice, it should be said that there will also be a takeover of the jurisdiction of cases and employees from the Organisational Unit of the Ministry of Justice which is now engaged in representation and that this new organisation, I believe, will contribute to the better quality of the work of this representative service. The third newspaper that is very important to me is that the state's attorney and institution as such is responsible not only to the government, which has been the case so far, but to the minister of justice. This establishes the hierarchy of power and control by the Ministry of Justice. That control, I do not see it as a control that will limit the work of the defence attorneys and staff, but as a control that in all those cases, since it is about the property interests and rights of the Republic of Serbia's units, will help to preserve the property integrity of the Republic of Serbia. The next newspaper that I also consider important is the establishment of a college of the state's attorney's office, something that we haven't had so far, which has its own competences provided for by law and which will contribute to the state's attorney's office's work more quickly and efficiently. Finally, what has already been apostrophe by Mr. Minister is the education of the defence of the AP Vojvodina and local self-government units. We've had previous law on the defence of some similar form, some similar legal solutions. However, I like this solution proposed by this bill far the most. I think we found one balance. Perhaps this issue should be discussed further, probably not sufficiently elaborated in the basic law itself, the Law on State Defence, although it is necessary to apply standards and regulations contained in the Law on State Defence to the Advocates of the Autonomous Province and the Units of Local Self-Government, however, to the region, etc., to this issue further elaborated. This would be about the State's Attorney's Office Act. The next law we would like to comment on and express our position as a parliamentary group is the law on mediating and resolving disputes that should replace the existing Law on Mediation. The Mediation Act was passed, as is known, in 2005. It proved to be a necessary law, came primarily as a desire to disband courts, to meet citizens for faster and more effective justice and, of course, as a result of monitoring trends in the judiciary in the comparative countries. However, the first few years were really good results, we were all satisfied and we felt that this was a very good solution. Then some shortcomings, such as the question of the unclear role of institutions in the field of mediation, were shown to be a problem of insufficient human training, and this all resulted in a decline in the process of mediation, which was of course a signal that some changes should be made. The main changes contained in the draft law on dispute settlement refer to the amended definition of mediation. Namely, this law regulates mediation as any procedure regardless of the name in which parties seek to resolve the disputed relationship through negotiation, then prescribes the possibility of applying mediation in all areas where the parties are free to dispose of their rights, except in those cases which are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the court or of any other state authority. This would also lead to an expansion of areas where mediation is possible. The proposals submitted during the intervention, which are presented by the parties during the intermediation process, and the mediator himself cannot be used in a judicial, arbitration or other procedure, which means that the quality of the proposal made by persons during the mediation proceedings is maintained. It also provides for a special rule of limitations, a stalemate of a 60-day limitation of demand to remove the possibility of mediation being used to delay the final settlement of the dispute, which has also been shown in practice as one of the ways of possible abuses. What we also find very important is that the agreement on a peaceful settlement of the dispute has the power of the executive document, but of course only on condition that all the elements prescribed by law are respected in the dispute. The costs of the procedure are also precisely arranged. It is prescribed that in the event of an agreement on settlement of disputes through mediation after a court procedure has already been initiated until the first hearing for the main debate that the parties may be free from payment of court or administrative fees. Then the process of issuing a mediation permit is introduced which determines whether a person fulfils the conditions for carrying out the mediation, and we see it as a tendency to raise the quality of intermediaries involved in this action of peaceful dispute resolution. The broker's register is being introduced. The registry will be with the Ministry of Justice, and we also see the training programme as something very important precisely for raising the quality and training of intermediaries. As for the power of attorney, the party, as a natural person in the process of intermediation, personally participates, and of course it can empower the power of attorney as well as in representing the court. As for the legal person, the legal person is, of course, represented by a legal representative or a power of attorney. In the new draft law, an existing provision on the need to verify the signature by means of a stamp of an intermediary has been deleted, but a similar application of the Law on Liabilities for the conclusion, fact and termination of the agreement has been introduced. This law is indeed a shift, a professional shift in the regulation of this activity, i.e. intermediation or peaceful dispute resolution. However, of course, it also assumes that several very important conditions are being met. For example, that courts must provide conditions for the implementation of the mediation, that this implementation should be in the judicial building, which was not always the case before, that it should be after the working time and in cases where the intervention procedure is initiated during the court proceedings. These are some important newspapers that I think contain the bill on intervening in dispute resolution. Since I have a little more time, I'd also like to give a critical review of the Act of Off-pard Procedure. The law on non-parnishment proceedings, i.e. the draft law on extra-parnical proceedings, has set as its primary task of harmonising with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, since it was brought more than 30 years ago, and to comply with the changes that followed in the legal order over this period of 30 years and, of course, to respect EU fluids, which is also one of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the path of harmonisation of the legal order. Of course, in addition to these political and social objectives, there is an important pragmatic goal, which is to dissipate the courts in which there are a really large number of cases, a large number of pending cases. In the sense of speeding up the resolution of these cases, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, because of the promotion of the work of public notebooks, the Act on non-partisan proceedings brings one set of provisions to which the court entrusts public notaries to carry out the procedure or to take certain laws of the number of out-of-party actions. Of course, it's just those stores that the code of the law lists. In fact, it has been agreed by the Law on non-parnical proceedings with the Law on Public Libraries, which was adopted in 2011, but has been revised several times since then, both in 2012 and 2013, and it is likely to be more, because this is the first time that we have introduced an institute of public notebooks after World War II, which should start working on September 1st of this year, provided, of course, that a public-book tariff is brought in and that a public-book chamber is formed by then. In this law, i.e. in this set of provisions that regulate public-book activity, the basic idea is that the Court can entrust the implementation of the procedure for which it is competent under the law. This makes the judge a solution entrusted to the public notary to carry out the procedure. Then there is also a solution to the establishment of a public notary, which is referred to a confidential case brought by the President of a court acting in a particular case. We have heard and can determine for ourselves in the text of the bill what is the mechanism of action. The judge must respect the list of public notebooks located in the area of the court. Then there is the obligation of a public notary to accept the work he is entrusted with. Whether in practice it will come to the fact that public notebooks may choose jobs, reject jobs that the judge trusts them with, that time will show. It may be necessary to introduce additional mechanisms to allow public notebooks to accept. Although it seems to me that the main motivational element will be a good tariff. If public notebooks are adequately rewarded through a public-book tariff, I don't see why they would refuse a trusted job by the judge unless there are, of course, some other reasons, e.g. bias, non-qualification, etc. The public register is required to comply with the rules applicable to the procedure. He is also obliged to respect the time limit that was left for him. His work has been supervised by a court entrusted to him by the conduct of these procedural actions relating to a particular case. Also, a solution made by a public notary as a trustee of the court, as he has the status of the court's trustee, can be attacked with legal medicines, with the same legal remedies as can be attacked by a verdict brought by the court. So, with the party's population, it's not being denied in any of the second-degree or extraordinary legal medications it can take. Also, I would like to conclude this presentation, and it is very important that what the minister has now announced to us, to pass this called omnibus law that will harmonise the accompanying regulations regarding the work of public notebooks. I guess the Business Society Act is one of those. When it's time, I would suggest that the part-time business that the public notebook is doing is expanding and that the part-time business...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1268	I would ask you, since the time has been set for the discussion of representatives of the parliamentary groups for 20 minutes, and it has expired, to bring an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1269	I'm done. ... that this part-round business expands, of course with the revisions of the law that will be done. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1270	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, legal philosophy - laws that are passed should be a reflection of the social movements of the moment of time, as well as a reflection of the state and political philosophy of whoever adopts certain laws. As a traditionalist party, which has seen the history of a certain law in the adoption of every law since our statehood exists, we have also observed the Law on Public Defence through this context. It seems to me that perhaps, all the promoters sometimes do, but perhaps more often it is necessary to point to the history and changes of the law through certain stages that our country has been going through and through the change of the social and political and economic system. Then we will always come to similar conclusions and similar answers. As the parties that may have been most pronounced were against and focused most on all the harmful consequences of the totalitarian regime in which we lived from 1945 to 1990, each such historical view and each comparison gives a full argument to our political position. If we look at, say, the Law on Notaries and Public Notes, it was passed during the Kingdom of Serbia in 1931 and was not applied to the territory of the whole country, and most of all in Vojvodina, because Vojvodina was then an economic, legal and in any other sense the more developed part of our country. Then, when the Law on Public Registration was promoted here, it was promoted as joining Serbia, or the introduction of something completely new into our legal system. There were indeed several colleagues, including myself, who we talked about that Serbia was, at some point, a really modern, European and advanced country in every sense, and also in the legal sense and legislative sense. It's similar with the Law on Public Attorney's Office. The law on public defence exists in Serbia for nearly 185 years. The first defence body was formed in Serbia as a custody service, i.e. the Ministry of Finance since 1839 and had an interesting name. It was run by the head of the Department of Thoughtfulness, which is archaism, but suitable for that time, the patronage of finance. Since 1842, that function has been performed by a civil servant who was called – a realist figure, since 1848 by the attorney general, and after the language reform carried out by Vuk Stefanović Karadzic and when a large unnecessary archaism was expelled since 1860, it has been called - the state's defence. For the first time, the Kingdom passed the Law on the State's Attorney Generalship in 1934, and it took the shortest look at the fact that the State's attorney represented the interests of the state in court and administrative disputes. However, with the change in the social, economic and political system, the change has not bypassed this area either. In 1945, the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia abolished the state's defence. What reason is that? Simple. When the interests, public interests, interests of the state in judicial, administrative and other disputes are not carried out by one single state body, when each organisation represents itself, then there is total chaos, lack of control and organised systematic robbery by the state, primarily public finances. This is not only a feature of our totalitarian communist system, it has been in many totalitarian regimes, and the consequences of this are huge abuses of public property to cover up irregularities available with public property and in a poor and deliberately poor absence of public-law interests. And on the existence of other institutions, such as a state auditor who could control the spending of public funds or that we had adopted the military defence institute that existed until a year ago, where the Ministry of Defence and its special finances were states in the country, a closed system in which no one was allowed to exercise civilian control of the spending of public funds and where the general public was created. The result is an absolutely normal approach to all the officials who are these types of mental heritage that, when you're dealing with public affairs, when you're having public finances, you need to have a relationship like you do with Alajbeg's straw and grab as much for yourself as possible, by the system – take it now that you've got a chance, because who knows if you're going to have such an opportunity. The consequences of this were, of course, the most pronounced in the privatisation process. When we look at who were the people most abused in the privatisation process, we will see that these are the people who are just educated in this system, who are sons or grandchildren of those who were organized, systematically robbed without anyone telling them that they were robbing the state. They, of course, made projects in time for their sons and grandchildren who would buy which company, because they knew what time was coming, so they said, well, gentlemen, if it has to be a multi-party system, here we from the one-party system will be the owners of capital, and then we will fully devalue the story of the 90s opposition that talked about fair, fair privatisation, the development of the private sector and everything that exists in the normal countries of the world. After the chaos that occurred by abolishing the state's defence in 1945, the state's attorney was reintroduced in 1952 and indeed tried to correct the chaos, but of course, in such a system it was impossible, there was no good will either. The consequences of the chaos that we then have created and today we are correcting through a number of restitution, rehabilitation procedures, and these are procedures that will, in a financial sense, significantly burden these and future generations. What to say, when I was talking about the military defence, it is that military defences exist in some developed countries of the world, such as the United States or Italy, but the military defenders there do not represent the property and legal interests of the Ministry of Defence and their military, but rather the state's attorney is doing so, not to talk about very strict civil, audit and other forms of control of the spending of public funds. So we had the military's defense until about a year ago. This new Law on Defence is doing something that many countries in the former Yugoslavia have done, if I am not mistaken in Macedonia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska as one of the entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, namely predicting the existence of what has existed so far, means - the republican, regional and defence units of local self-government, with the closer regulation of their responsibilities and obligations, and that is a solution that is in line with the spirit of time and the text of the law itself does not have anything special to object to. As far as mediation is concerned, once again when we look at parallel legislation and court practice from developed countries, we will come up with some data that they really believed for the section or not. There are regulated legal systems and regulated countries of the world in which the peaceful settlement of disputes involving intermediaries or mediators ends in almost 97% or 98% of civil litigation. It's a piece of information that's so amazing for our chances that we really need to draw attention to it. What does that mean in a practical sense? First, the dispensation of the work of the courts. Then, faster dispute resolution with mutual easing. Then, huge financial savings for parties participating in the mediation process and one feeling that the state is operating at all levels and that its institutions are functioning even by mediators. It seems to us that the Law on Intermediation is and it seems to me that this linguistic and legal termology of returning intermediation instead of mediation is more appropriate for our language and that is what we from SPO and DHSS as traditionalists will always support, because there is this our Serbian leprosy that we really should be proud of, that we should cultivate, that we should promote. Any kind of terminology that promotes what we stand for will absolutely have our support. What is particularly interesting to us and what I will draw attention to in the selection of mediators for those who decide, and that is the full awareness that it really depends on people. What kind of mediator should he be? First of all, skillful. Many mediators, not only in our practice so far, but also in the world, have shown themselves as, say, select a mediator who is an exceptional legal scientist, who has an exceptional biography, for which everyone will literally vote, but in the process of mediation, it shows that he is not skilled enough. So the mediator should be someone who first of all puts trust, who has a huge kind of patience, who knows the techniques of communication, the techniques of mediation. Who's gonna be some kind of active listener? Who knows he's looking for a way out of a dead end. Which, in addition to having legal knowledge, will surely know that an estimate of the psychological profile of the personality of the opposing parties in the dispute is going to bring the opposing parties closer together. Because indeed in court proceedings, especially in the litigation of property dispute with great value, the beginning of these proceedings shows that the two parties are remote shores that have been dug into their trenches and ready to wage judicial war against each other until extinction. It is precisely the mediator's skill that through various communication techniques, through evaluations of how these parties should approach, in which way they should gain their trust, in which way they should be given all the benefits of mediation, to show them which party is objectively and well-founded legally better standing than the other party and that this results in the final decision of the mediator in which everyone will benefit, from a court that will be deprived of one court case more than a number of court fees, the financial interests of the parties to end the proceedings within a shorter period. The intermediation process is much more flexible than the court case and can be adapted to a specific case. The trial is strictly formal. In the mediation process you can perform without often respecting some strictly formal procedural rules that you have to comply with before the court, you can have more direct contact with the mediator, you can contact more often than when you officially receive a call from the court. From a sociological point of view, it's the best example of self-regulatory deregulation. There are huge savings in time and money. A neutral third party who settles disputes encourages parties primarily with authority, legal knowledge and skills to settle the dispute peacefully. The differences between an alternative and a court solution are numerous, from not respecting some strict legal rules, despite the fact that there are standards that regulate the position and role of mediators, to what is most important – solving a complex conflict by peaceful means and finally getting out of the dead end. What we have pointed out in the Law on the Preparative Procedure of Fundamental Procedure is that indeed, the Law on the Off-pard Procedure, we have pointed out earlier, should have been in the congregation procedure much earlier, even if it had not been an amendment to some other laws and had not passed the Law on Court Notaries, the Act on Out-of-pard Procedure, which has been in force since 1982 absolutely not corresponded to the spirit of time. As for one of the most important changes, it is periodically, under official duty, the initiation of proceedings by the court itself in persons who are permanently or temporarily deprived of their business ability to re-experience and determine whether they have really been mentally ill to that end or who have some other psychiatric serious disorder that makes it impossible for them to decide their own rights and interests, so they need a certain representative or what was once called – a tutor, I think this is also one of the really good examples of removing one of the relics that were a feature of the past. The psychiatrists will tell us that there really is, we all know, a permanent and temporary mental disorder, temporary negativity, the ability to judge which is time-limited due to various factors, from injury, psychoactive substances poisoning, drug use, the tendency to alcoholism, to easier and more severe psychiatric diseases. We have so far had the situation that indeed a person once deprived of their business abilities literally has almost no chance of being able to fully mentally and mentally decide on his rights, interests and his actions, when he is capable of judgment, cannot exercise his right. And so a reasonable man, a businessman, is treated by family, society and environments as a business incapacitated. It is the same as extending the parent’s condition, and the reasons for extending parental aging from life can be different. Absolutely good and acceptable provisions of alignment with the Law on Public Registration and a series of measures that again reduce pressure on the work of courts through the reference of cases to work in public notation. What I particularly want to point out is that again through the Law on Public Records, something that is good, and which has not yet been brought into practice in the case of defence under official duty, that is the principle that public notebooks should receive cases under official duty and there is no will. When representing under official duty by lawyers, up to a few years ago, it seems to me that 99% and now to a slightly smaller extent, but there are still privileged lawyers who have a variety of connections with judges, with people working at the Department of Criminal Penalty, and where they receive detention cases, get over the line of defense under official duty, even some in the order of payment of money, and the state is still in charge of many lawyers for defence under official duty. What we pointed out when there was the Law on Lawyerry and other laws that regulated that matter, that the simple state at every step must show its justice, even in that field. That's why it's a legal solution where the outsider has nothing to think about, he can simply look at the list, see alphabetical order, assign objects to the notary, absolutely elegant and something that we'll support. In the debate on amendments, we will present some of our closer observation of all these legal solutions and propose some other solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1272	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1273	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, I wanted to talk yesterday about a set of laws in the area of criminal law, but at that time we received news of the death of Mr Miki Rakic, an NDS MP who did not even manage to take the place that belonged to him as a member of the People's Parliament. However, it gives me the obligation to highlight this man's contribution, Miki Rakic, in the fight against organised crime, against terrorism, corruption, the fight against the detection of war criminals, but also to the man who selflessly devoted his entire life to this job, the man who talked a little bit, and worked and did a lot, and there were many acts left behind. I think we should be proud, and we have a duty to continue on that path, because the path he started is not a bit easy. In that sense, I will speak very responsibly of the set of all these laws, the eight laws that have entered the procedure, the three that are purely within the area of criminal law and the five that we are discussing today. It is about 600 members in these eight laws that came after an emergency procedure, which is one of the serious problems of this parliament, which I will later talk about reflecting. Our final position, the New Democratic Party parliamentary groups, the Party Together for Serbia and the Greens, on these laws in the voting day will be given on the basis of the minister's position, or government's on our amendments. What we have a serious reserve where, in some ways, we question our "yes" vote for these laws, is the fact that laws are not implemented with us, if we had, we could say, a bunch of new regulations that don't apply. Will the Honorable Minister Selakovic and these eight laws be part of that pile that is unfortunately not applied? The responsibility for this lies not only with you, but with MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whose role is, other than legislative, and supervisory. They are the ones who should exercise control over the implementation of the laws they vote for in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so also the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, and for the judiciary and all other committees that are competent to worry about the implementation of the laws that passed this assembly and which have been voted. Unfortunately, there has been no practice so far and we have often passed laws here, as we have these days, by emergency procedure, and never again asked the Minister – Ministers, what about the implementation of these laws? What is it, for example, with the implementation of Maria's law, which we talked about, which all the parliamentary groups supported in this House and where, as far as I know, there's no record being conducted to keep this law going? It's symbolic, but it's important and essential for this country to finally be a legal state. Minister, you are in this position for the third year and you are one of the few ministers who has received trust and a new prime minister to perform that function. The new prime minister probably has reasons why he gave you this role, but I could say things that we were dissatisfied with and for which we expect you to fix in the coming period, because I think this very internship in the government is an additional responsibility for the area you're dealing with, for the legal order, or for the rule of law. We talked a lot, Minister, about the moves that you made in the previous period, with which we were not quite agreeable, or we were strongly against, but we expected that you would convince us, through practice that your goals would be realized and that reality would deny us. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. That was the Amnesty Act, which we talked about a lot and whose effects, in my opinion, were very negative in our parliamentary group, let me say, in the legal system of the country, for legal certainty, because it gave a negative message for the rule of law and for sanctions as a form of state repression against those who break the law. On the other hand, during yesterday we talked about the execution of criminal sanctions, i.e. sanctions in institutions for execution and outside those institutions. There is a serious possibility of making a new mistake if the law is not fully respected, because someone seems to have told me, when we talked about these two laws, that the first law could be a law for the poor, and another law for the rich, so that those who have money could buy freedom, and that those who don't have money could lie in jail. It's not a legal state, Minister. I hope that doesn't happen. On the other hand, yesterday in your presentation, you said, "Crime rate rise." You didn't say numbers, data, but the fact is that in certain areas, Belgrade, Novi Sad and other districts, we don't have a comprehensive picture. The rate of crime of all kinds, from juvenile delinquency, peer violence, domestic violence and other forms of crime. Did we do it enough to reduce that rate? Is the job of the Ministry of the Interior and your job, the job of the Department of Justice, that is, the job of the police and the job of the judiciary one and the same job, and do the people who are deprived of freedom today for who knows which time, and after a few days we see them on the street where they're making new crimes, give them the right to do anything to increase legal certainty? In that sense, Minister, we look at these laws that you have put into the procedure, with serious intention of supporting them, of course, to support them but if you respect some of our amendments, but with serious concern that they will not be applied in an adequate way and that we will talk about some of them as Maria's law which unfortunately does not apply some other laws that are not applicable. I'll remind you of a serious debate, I think the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group has been proposing amendments to the law that we've prescribed, let's say, the dragon's penalties for criminal acts against, let's say, infrastructure. We agreed not to destroy trafo stations, railways, etc., etc. Did the crime rate drop? I don't think so. We don't have adequate analysis and that's the problem. I don't think that happened, Minister. In that sense, the application of the law, the efficiency, the control of the laws passed, the responsibility of everyone, and the one who passed the laws, and the one who proposed them and the one who had to apply them, I think we've all seriously failed. I hope that the appointment of the president of the courts will improve the situation in the judiciary, because that's not great. We're getting old, we're running out of sanctions, to be exact, we were able to talk about it yesterday. So, for example, prisons or for some other reason, judicial judgments become obsolete. That shouldn't happen in a state of law, even if it were a case. No one should be unpunished because they have no place in prisons or because they have failed the judiciary for the work they have done, long-term detentions, for no reason, sometimes show up. In that sense, honourable Minister Selakovic, MP Boris Tadic - New Democratic Party - Together for Serbia and Green Serbia will once again consider all the norms that make these laws, by the day of voting we will make a decision, of course, given your attitude towards our amendments, but above all I ask you to appear in the next period before the Assembly committees and to say what is with some of these laws that I have mentioned and which I could mention, what about applying and what about the rate of criminality growth? Is that true? What are these areas, why and why are they scheduled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1274	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1275	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the reason why Mr Vesenovic presented at the beginning of his presentation and the inability to state his parliamentary group's position on the issues of the laws discussed yesterday in principle, and in order to give an additional quality to this debate and to withdraw some qualifications that may have been unwarranted during that presentation, I will give a brief presentation. The first remark concerned the fact that eight proposed laws in the assembly came by emergency procedure. I must point out that a number of these laws are already in the assembly procedure, that the adoption of these laws is related, among other things, to Serbia's progress in the process of European integration and that delaying their adoption would make it impossible for good results in the process, especially given that a regular session of the EU Council of Ministers is held in June, which brings an opinion on our country's progress in European integration. Fearing that the problem in Serbia is not in passing, but in law enforcement it is absolutely justified and is absolutely legitimate. It is a problem characterised by Serbian legislation in a long, long number of years. I can't even limit it to some period, so let me say, in the last 10 years, much more than that. It speaks of one collapse, one of the diseases of our legal system, but Serbia is not alone. That, you will allow, is the characteristic of almost all societies in transition. Almost all transition societies have come into the situation that there has been a "inflation" of legislative activities, "inflation" in lawmaking and that the present lacks in law enforcement. However, as your presentation concerns a specific law that has been passed in the previous meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the implementation of the so-called so-called so-called National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Maria's law, which provides for special measures and a special way, a special effect of criminal sanctions on perpetrators of semi-freedom, against minors, I must say that the implementation of Maria's law is, to a good extent, disabled without the law now being passed before the National Assembly, which is the Law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures. Since the law proposed by the father of the victim of a serious crime was then discussed and it was not systemically prepared to be incorporated into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the adoption of the Law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures creates key preconditions for the full application of this law. Therefore, in order to implement this law in general, it is necessary to pass the Law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, and yesterday it was the subject of a debate in principle, I hope for what day and subject matter of discussion in particular and its adoption we will certainly enable the full application of Mary's law. It has been stated that so far laws have been passed in the National Assembly, but that the National Assembly rarely or almost never called those in charge of implementing these laws not on responsibility, but on the right to receive information about the implementation of certain laws. I will remind you that in the past session, I have been before the board of directors more than a few last ministers together, and that I am saying this with pride, and that I will continue in every situation, when physically and functionally possible, to come before the Committee of Justice, to answer the questions asked by the MPs and to give the information they are asking me. It is my fault that in these questions that the MPs were in a position to ask me there were no, let's say, questions - what is the effect of the Amnesty Act, which was brought in November 2012, because then I would have received an answer that would have been said that without that law, with all the shortcomings that every Amnesty Law bear, and I will not deny them, we would not be in a situation today to have a drastically improved situation in the institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions compared to the 2012 Council of Europe report. According to a report published just over a month ago, which is the result of one observation and assessment of the situation in our 2012 criminal sanctions system, when our prison facilities were only 7,500 people, today when these capacities are 9,300 people, when they're in a much better condition, when we no longer have the same overbooking and we don't have what you resented in your exposure, but I appreciate that this is a fruit of incomplete information in that area, we no longer have an obsolescence of the execution of criminal sanctions due to the lack of free prison facilities. This may have been a feature of a period right up to the adoption of this law that you state as the darkest or worst move by the former Justice and State Administration in 2012, if we hadn't passed that law then, today we would have had an obsolescence of the execution of criminal prison sanctions because we wouldn't have anywhere to place convicted persons. What is worrying and what I, as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, received information, was that during the period especially until 2012, concrete courts, we had become obsolete in the execution of prison sentences, even when the person was available to limited prosecutions. According to the information I own, the disciplinary authorities of the High Council of the Judiciary have launched disciplinary proceedings which, by the letter of the law, may also result in the resolution of judges who may, but there are fundamental doubts, deliberately put aside, as we say in the people – kept in the drawer cases of execution of prison sentences. I'll point you to, say, a case that is interesting and interesting to our public, where it threatened to put an end to the execution of a prison sentence, but thank God it won't happen. This is the case of the convicts of Mileta Jerkovic, who travelled abroad and who has several times been extended, i.e. delayed execution of the prison sentence, which, from a little less, a month ago, after medical interventions at a special prison hospital, is at the expense of the sentence. If it hadn't been done, if that person hadn't been referred to upholding the sentence, it would have happened that at the end of December that sentence would have been obsolete, but that didn't happen. Without arguing that any law on amnesty can have negative effects, let us remember those most negative effects of the Law on Amnesty adopted in early 2000, which have been amnesty by persons who have been convicted of terrorism in one part of our country's territory. The most negative effects were seen on 17 March 2004 during the famous March pogrom of our population in KIM, where there are indications that one of the main organizers of these persecutions and murders of our countrymen, but not just our countrymen, not only Serbs, but also members of other national minorities, non-Albanian from KIM, were persons released in 2001. So it's undeniable that amnesty has its negative side, but here we appreciate what's negative, what's positive. Did this amnesia have a positive effect on the functioning of our prison system? And how, because she made it possible, and I was saying that then, you can also take stenogram notes to create technical and legal assumptions to improve the state of functioning of our criminal sanctions system. That's what really happened. If you see what is the activity and the ministry, and the Department of Criminal Sanctions, you'll see that there's a state of affairs and how it's improved. If I tell you that we improved, or increased capacity from 7.5 to 9,300 convicts, if I tell you that now the overbooking of our system, on yesterday, I had data because we discussed it, in the criminal sanctions enforcement system there were 10,069 persons in 9,300 places. A colleague of Omerovic quoted the data I gave yesterday. So we are not talking about Eastern European countries, where there are serious objections to the Council of Europe. For example, one Italy has 35,000 seats in prisons, with a capacity of 72,000. If you compare this with Serbia 9,300 and fill 10,069, and we had a situation two years ago that the fill was 11,300 persons and the available seats were 7,500, then the difference is also as obvious. There was also one fear, unfortunately not so argumentated, but I will try to drive that unargumented fear away. He says, "One is a law for the poor, and one is a law for the rich." I don't think so. The execution of out-of-conduct sanctions and measures in the part in which alternative types of sanctioning are carried out, which are work in the public interest, house arrest or house detention with electronic surveillance measures, shall be applied according to a specific category of criminal offences. Therefore, they cannot apply to perpetrators of serious crimes, or crimes for which high prison sentences can be imposed. There's no alternative. I think that's good, but let's be correct, so say, let's say, in the developed world, alternative sanctions apply to two-thirds of the perpetrators. So, say, you have about three quarters. So, for example, you have a situation in one of Sweden or in one of the Great Britain. Of course, we are still far from those examples, but they need us to strive. You have examples there that say that only every third or every fourth person is a convicted person in support of an office sanction. So he's in jail. Two-thirds or three-quarters of convicts are persons who maintain a non-conductive sanction. I don't think these examples are the most extreme. The most extreme example is the example of the Netherlands, which does not have the fullness of prison facilities at all. So prisons are retail, a completely different system, a completely different concept, but it's worth mentioning. What's worrying, and I think we'll agree on that, which is one way that yesterday's debate and the proposed legislative changes we tried to reduce and stop as much. I think the application of these regulations will have a significant impact on the growth of the overall crime rate. I will give myself the right to say that it is the responsibility of the entire society, that it is the responsibility of all those who create public awareness and participate in its creation from the family, through school to the means of public information, including as an extremely important fact and a general social and economic situation in which the state and citizens are in this entire decade. In that sense, I am proud to have come out with amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm sorry you didn't notice that, because if you want, one of the forms of the increase in the overall crime that is qualified as such in our public is increased crime, i.e. hooliganism at sports events or related to sports events, but not only that, but when it comes to unauthorized possession and trafficking of intoxicating drugs and anything that can negatively affect young people. You mentioned, I support that, juvenile delinquency is one of our biggest problems. We also make a clear proposal for a solution to the proposed amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. If we're talking about hooliganism, a person who's made a riot at a sports game, a sports event, then was arrested, a criminal procedure was brought against him, a restraining order was imposed on him where sports competitions are being held, I'll compare it to the extent that the driver, if the driver, who was withdrawn from the license, was found again to drive a motor vehicle, followed by a stricter punishment, but before that you gave him the ban, here we give the restraining order to places where sports games are held, you find that person again, and most often those faces are returnees, then you don't have any more situations like we had, and that's to bring one person in for the riots at the game, while you end the criminal proceedings against him, he could still find himself in other games and repeat his behaviour, not just the ones that make riots at the sports event. Someone mentioned yesterday by colleagues who put in the market intoxicated drugs, and then one drug dealer you meet, or you arrest several times in the same nightclub, same bar, same discotheque. forbid him access to such places. Let's colorocchially say, deny him his market. So we have also put forward a proposal on how to affect the reduction of this strong trend in the overall rate of crime. You mentioned crimes that were defined by amendments to the Criminal Code, if I'm not mistaken in December of last year, and as regards theft at various public installations, whether the power lines, water lines, sewers, etc. And I'm genuinely interested, and I'm going to have to, and you can ask a question, and we can discuss it at the next board session to talk about getting application effects. Let's see how many indictments have been filed so far, let's say, for these specific cases and whether it's an act that's been brought into practice and if it's not to ask for a statement from the prosecution, why it's not, because I think it's a pretty good crime, that we have big problems with the theft of installations, and that's even worse with the damages resulting from these thefts, because the damages are sometimes incomparably greater than what the value of stolen property itself is. I am also convinced that the choice of the President of the Courts will contribute to the better work of the courts and that it will not happen to us, as I said, that in certain courts it has happened, and that you have tied it up afterwards to this story that the sentences imposed on us are also outdated in the case of a convicted person's availability to the competent authorities. The highest number of prisons, that's what citizens need to know, and you should know, it's outdated when it comes to the faces on the warrants. So, people who are not available to us, these are the most frequently out-of-date prison sentences. There was something going on with us that was absolutely unacceptable, which is that the sentence of prison goes out to whoever's available to the state authorities. I've been trying really hard to put out everything you resented, and I thank you for your attention, even though, as I said, this was the topic of yesterday's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1276	Mr. Veselinović on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1277	Replica. I won't delay the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1278	You have no right to a replica. At no point did the minister express himself in any way badly on your discussion, but answered only your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1279	I don't think it's bad, but let me just have two comments on his answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1280	You have the six minutes you have left around the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. How about that?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1281	You got it. I thank the chairman. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the very comprehensive explanation and defense of some of the thesis from your point of view and for confirming some of the thesis that I brought out. When it comes to an emergency procedure and the fact that the emergency laws enter the Assembly among other things and because it speeds up our path to the European Union. I don't mind if they go into congregation procedure for that reason. However, we must not forget and endanger the rule of law despite that speed. I would really like it and certainly it is your wish that this acceleration of the path towards the EU should not mean less the rule of law, but more the rule of law. That in this sense, the application of these laws should be, as you said, from a wider social community in order not to be wronged to the end of the country as some other current EU members, because the laws are not applied and the crime rate is high and does not contribute to the legal security of citizens. Not wanting to be a little malignancy, Mr. Minister, you said the situation in prisons after the Amnesty Act was much better. That's where I absolutely agree with you. But the situation on the street was worse after the law was applied. These people went out on the street without a measure of resociation. They found themselves in the streets instead of in prisons, and some of them committed crimes, not to mention the message of the citizens. So it is true that you have achieved a very important effect with this law, but it is true that you are speaking less about this other effect and I hope that we will talk about it on committees and in this Assembly when we analyse the increase in crime rates in various areas. I think we'll agree on these alternative measures. You said it wasn't the same situation in Sweden and the UK in which two thirds of the criminal sanctions are in some way implemented through measures that do not bind themselves to a closed room, or prison. I'd like to get into that phase in some future period, but we're just not close to that phase, and I said my fear, I'd like to be denied reality in the next period, that these extra-conductive measures are not privileged, that they can be "accommodated" by just some more famous, richer, etc. People. I'd like to talk more on committees next time. Minister, you said you were more than any minister in front of those committees. I agree, but you yourself said that they weren't asking you questions about the application of the law, but probably 90% of that discussion was about new laws that were in the process. On the one hand, you were in the congregation, and on the other hand, there were no thematic sessions where law enforcement was discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1282	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1283	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from my last move, it is true that most of the committee's sessions were held to discuss the draft legislation that it established and sent to the National Assembly for discussion and adoption of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But I will also remind you that there are thematic sessions when the three-month and six-month reports on the work of ministers have been discussed and that I have been able to attend such sessions and discuss the results of the work that includes the results of the application of certain laws. When it comes to the part of the amnesty law, I really don't see that there's any need to talk about it anymore. I will remember very well your inspired and bitter discussions about it in the previous assembly. Citizens who well judge everything we say sooner or later get an opportunity to qualify what we said, how we did, and what we did. I absolutely don't believe that the results were as you represented them two years ago, more precisely a year and a half ago, that any of the citizens would vote for us. The citizens also voted in favour of the SNS, which I have the honour of belonging to and who proposed me in 2012 for the minister of justice and the state administration, received more than 100% of the vote in the last elections than 20 months ago. In your opinion, it may be that the majority of Serbian citizens were covered by amnesty, so they voted for us. They may also like that such chaos, as you say, in the streets and some unsustainable increase in the rate of crime. I'm saying this with one dose of irony, and it's clear to you and me. As I said, I'm not hiding it, that amnesty had certain bad sides, as well as the amnesty proposed by the government in 2001. I just think that the good side of this amnesty that was brought in 2012 was incomparably bigger, and when I said that it fixed the situation in prisons, I repeat, although it's not polite so much, but I quoted what I said in 2012, technical preconditions were created to regulate the situation. It wasn't just amnesia. Thanks to the amnesty, he went through, so to speak, and the parole institute, and all of these laws, which the assembly of these days and which they will decide on, are going to make even better. I don't want to point out that certain other parts of the system that have been put to sleep or haven't worked in a long time. If you have information that five years has not been employed by a single new police officer in Novi Sad, therefore, this is a five-year record compared to 2013, and that 300 new employees are now employed and that is exclusively in the vacancy of the systems, without increasing the maximum number of employees in the state administration, then you understand that one part of the state has not functioned. We can tell who's responsible. She was responsible and presided over and passed the government, but the past government began to change that, thank God. It's something that also affects, let's say, the lowering of that rate of increase in the overall rate of crime increase. Last time we mentioned an emergency procedure. So I'm not, generally I'm not a supporter of an emergency procedure, but let's be objective here. The Ministry of Justice and the State Administration in the previous term, the Ministry of Justice, today, I am responsible for saying this, because I am very well monitoring the legislative activity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is the ministry that has conducted public debates on all major legal projects that took longer than half a year. On some of these laws, public debates have been going on since December 2012, calculate how long it is. These are laws that are not only organised by round tables, not only by electronic means, but also by the reception and consultation of citizens who write their objections and suggestions about the bill's proposals, not only have some been in the assembly procedure, but we really make sure that the laws are not written in secret, that they are not kept in a closed room for three days, then released from that room and brought right through the government here to the Assembly. You can read about such legal proposals and solutions in the means of public information long, long weeks and months. Those public debates are often involved and interested MPs. If we do all of this in such a way and get this legislative proposal here with already defined views and opinions, both professional and general public in relation to individual solutions, we can resent the urgent procedure, even then, but to a much smaller extent. Sometimes it's not good, sometimes it's good to compare with others, but let's do an analysis of the emergency procedure in the period until 2012, when it's only the Ministry of Justice. I'm sure you'll see one big difference. We've taken a step forward, maybe it's not a step that we'd all want it to be, but it's important that we take another step forward. I'm sure we'll do it. You have pointed to a problem that has been present in some of the countries that have become EU members in the last ten years. I'll mention two things. First, our legislative process is incomparably more fundamental and transparent than it was theirs. Some countries have passed laws in a foreign language, some countries have done so in an uncomparably urgent manner than our own. We don't have that kind of behavior. What is extremely important is that these laws have passed the European Commission's assessments and where necessary, the Council of Europe, and have received positive comments and positive assessments. Where there have been more negative suggestions, they have been followed and these texts have been brought into line with them. Of course, we have a great law to give our maximum in the application of these laws and I will add something that is also important – most of these laws have a period from the entry into force until the start of application, which is not negligible and which gives us enough time to prepare ourselves well and possibly further train institutional capacities so that these laws are actually properly implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1284	The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1285	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, is now in front of us on the agenda of the Law on Defence, Intermediation, Dispute Resolution in the Parley, Vanpard and Executive Procedure. My original intention was to address myself as someone who is, in a professional sense, your colleague and to convey to you in a well-intentioned way what is the experience of practice in applying regulations that are essentially all existing, regardless of what some today are called laws, some amendments and additions to existing laws. Legal matter has already been regulated one way or another. You encouraged me by a little earlier address to change my exposure a little bit and try to understand it together. You're a lawyer, I'm a graduate lawyer, I have over 20 years of professional experience. We may not have enough in mind when we decide on certain regulations that citizens who do not have to be legal professionals are reading and experiencing these regulations. Now only an example works, the Law on Defence now for those people watching this transmission today is a law that is practical and practically already exists, with now the representative of the Republic of Serbia not being called a republican public defender but a state defence. For you and me, it could be an essential thing, but for the citizens who look at this for them, it's completely irrelevant. They don't care what the organ is called, it matters whether it works effectively and legally or does not work, as it did in time whether the courts in the first degree are called primary or municipal. Whether they work effectively or not mattered. In addition, I think they also find it completely irrelevant to whom the Attorney General delivers notices, to whom he delivers the reports, and about the devolution and the substitution, I really don't dare even think how important it is to them. As a result, there is an impression, and perhaps this has prompted a colleague of Veselinovic to speak about urgency in this way. It's a law that regulates existing matter. Without it, you can, because there is, as you yourself said in the area of justice, which requires urgent changes and urgent actions. In that sense, this law is not a priority. On the other hand, we now have a law on extra-parnical procedure which is also the law, as you stated, from 1982. He is overcome, but what distinguishes him from the Law on Defence is that he is vital to the citizens of Serbia. A vital law on situations in which each of us can be found, whether because he participates in the process of making an instrument, discussing a legacy, or something like that. It's a life-important law, but instead of changing it as a whole, we're changing it to a piece, so we have a change in 2012, so we change it a little bit and we add it to 2013, so here we go again in 2014 a little bit, and I wonder how much more? Simply, if we have a clear idea of how the outsider procedure and what principles it should rest on, if we have a clear idea of how we're going to share, for example, jurisdiction between the court and the public notebooks, I really ask that within the shortest time, we have a comprehensively important legal text in front of us, because this is essential. This is what the citizens will feel in their daily lives - is it or is it not behind them or before them a rule of law or not? The law on defence in this regard is neither urgent nor essential to citizens. It is important for people who work in the defence, for the government, ministers, etc., to simply regulate mutual relations between the state authorities, and for the citizens, believe me. So I think it's essential that when, and very often we do, we talk about reforms, and when we announce them, people really expect us not only to do term reforms, but to change fundamentally, and it doesn't change for the worse, but for the better. When fundamental changes are missing, and especially those changes that change the everyday lives of citizens, then the question is, what are we actually doing in this room? Are we here in order to change some laws to make citizens feel like we're doing something very important and serious, or are we really changing and moving things forward? When we talk about how much we want efficient courts and effective protection for our citizens in achieving their rights and legal interests, imagine now some citizen we want, we agree, to ensure an economic and efficient judiciary and a simple approach to the court, etc., when e.g. Take this text, which you have put into the assembly procedure, the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure and, for example, when. read Article 12 of that Law, which literally reads, in Article 399(4), the words ‘Article 187’ are replaced by the words ‘Article 188’. We will agree that nothing will be clear to him what he read. In order to understand, he will need a chamber of official messengers, and perhaps even some expert interpreter, I mean professional interpreters, serious lawyers, not these instant variations, someone who will seriously interpret what he writes here. The driving order often changes, but it doesn't change the car, it changes the passenger. It's supposed to be a rule that applies to laws. Laws can be changed a lot, but not lawyers, governments...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1286	I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'm asking you to return to the agenda. It's not a good thing to drive. I can inform you as chairman that there is a single rule of methodological law for the making of laws and other general acts and that you are thus handling it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1287	Can you just tell me what that act is called?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1288	Unique methodological rules for making regulations. That's what you got when you became a MP and I'm asking you to read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1289	Did you win?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1290	I got it, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1291	Well, I'm glad you read it, but obviously with the title you have a problem. So forget about the driving order. Please, let me continue. I don't take offense to you or to the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1292	You're allowed to proceed, no problem. Talk about the law. Citizens may read the laws, but these are law enforcement laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1293	Unlike many who dare comment on the laws, I am a graduate lawyer, I have over 20 years of work experience, and I graduated, not from a university in trend, but from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, where our distinguished minister teaches. I hope that at least, by your strict criteria, gives me the right to comment on something. As I said, I'm commenting on the best of intentions, because since we're all reading praises, we're not going to get the best legal text, and that's, I believe, your interest, because if it weren't for your interest, you wouldn't be sitting here today, and I respect it, but it's also an interest to all of us who live here. We can politically disagree, but we agree on one thing, which is that whatever our political definitions are, we all ask that we live in a rule of law and respect our right to legal certainty. There's nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1294	The word has been authorised by a proposing representative, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1295	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I really appreciate every criticism. As you could see in your participation in the debate on the bill's proposals, both in principle and in particular, the biggest goal I'm seeking is to pass as best regulation as possible that will provide citizens with legal certainty, legal predictability of the system and that will not concern the adoption of laws that we cannot apply. I would agree with my predecessor in her statement that there is a problem with citizens in considering the importance of the regulations we as Government are proposing, and you, as MPs in the Assembly, are considering and deciding on them. Of course, it's not our role just to propose regulations. Our role is also to bring citizens closer to the necessity of a certain regulation. I fully agree with you that there is a difference, let's say, between the draft law on defence, on the one hand, and the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on non-partisan procedure, on the other hand, but the very importance of adopting one of these legal proposals depends on how we present it. Obviously, there's one big difference between these two laws. It's not just the difference that you're pointing at from one angle. There is also a difference in the nature of these regulations. The draft law on defence is a bill that completes a weakly defined, almost non-existent part of our legal system. I do not argue that we will all agree that the applicable Law on Public Defence, as Professor Besarovic said, is a law which also makes it a law that does not define an important institution of functioning and justice and a legal system until the end. Probably the problem was the moment when we still couldn't get rid of some of the prevailing influences of the past, and we weren't even allowed to step in enough of the challenges of the future. But if, for example, you could show the integrity of the proposal and the adoption of the Law on Defence in a way that is of interest to citizens and how it is interested to defend Serbia's property and legal interests and how its property is protected, I believe that citizens and how they would be aware of the necessity of adopting this law. I'll give you an example, sticking to the subject, of course, and I think citizens should know that. Due to the disorientation of this part of our legal system, recently, as a minister at the time in the technical government, I was faced with some information that was more than worrying. It was, in effect, a right of conversion, i.e. the conversion of the right to use in the right of public property. I was appalled by the fact that the public defenders' offices, both at the republic and at the city level, were hardly at all stating the implementation of that conversion, which was carried out by completely illegal interpretation of existing laws. I'm going to give you an example concrete. The example, i.e. such action, resulted in the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia before, I think that it was a period of eight or nine months, was asked then by the City of Belgrade to pay the rent for the use of one facility in which four decades ago there was one ministry. All of us who are members of the government were wondering how it was possible for the City of Belgrade to charge the rent to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the accommodation of the state authority, i.e. The ministries in the building that the government of the Republic of Serbia has erected, in a building whose user was given the ministry. Then we came up with information that the city of Belgrade signed up for the building as the owner. Looking further at the same trail of events, we have come to the situation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has nothing in its possession because the City is registered as the owner of these facilities. Then I was interested in how the city could register. The city enlisted by interpreting it completely wrong, so to speak, incorrectly, an existing provision of the Law on Planning and Construction. In fact, the Law on Public Property states that the issue of the conversion of the right to use in public property will be regulated by a special law. The law on public property was passed later than the Law on Planning and Construction, and then the City of Belgrade interpreted the Law on Planning and Construction, which was passed a year before the Law on Public Property as that special law, which was not the legislator's intention at all. The problem would be removable if units of local self-government did not do anything else, which is that in the conversion of public property rights, they came into possession of a large number of properties, and I remember one debate with a respected colleague, Djukic-Dejanovic, who had an explicit request from the City of Belgrade, if I am not mistaken, that the Clinical and Emergency Centre and all clinics whose beneficiary is the Ministry of Health owned by the Republic of Serbia, would transfer everything to the City of Belgrade. It was a great resistance to the city's government at the time, and it is a great honor for it, which it has endured, because then it would turn out that Serbia doesn't have a single clinical centre in its capital, that everything has a Belgrade City. Of course, we can now say – so whose city is Belgrade rather than the Republic of Serbia. The problem arises in the next. I think this is of the general interest that I'm talking about, so you won't mind me taking this opportunity. The problem arises from the fact that individual properties, each of us knows where the government building, the ministry building, the clinic building or some hospital, but Serbian citizens do not know what is all the property of the property owned by the Republic of Serbia. Then some properties that were in the right to use were transferred to a local self-government unit, then that local self-government unit issued a bidding and arranged to sell some of these immovableities, and that happened. That would be fine if it were legally implemented. Why wasn't it legally enforced? Because no one controlled the work of the Republic Public Attorney's Office. Why didn't anyone control the work? Because this state body was set up on a completely overrun law that had so many general places, regulations or undefined places, absolutely undefined and if we lay things on such grounds, I think it's clear to everyone why it's urgent to pass this law. Things happened that the immovableity was recorded on the name of the City of Belgrade, that 20 years ago a house was erected illegally, illegally, that the City of Belgrade had issued a bidding and sold there, say, a field, not knowing and not leaving at all to determine the fact that there was an illegal property in which a legalisation procedure was launched. Now comes the owner who needs to buy that property and sees several new buildings built on that property. The city doesn't even know what he sold. I set an example for the City of Belgrade, don't mind me, without any political connotation. We can say that when it comes to other municipalities. Just saying something, I believe that fellow Stefanovic, knowing his role earlier, will do what he did. I just said -- thank God, so no one found out about this in Kosovo and Metohija, you can think about what would happen to state property there, and we intend to conduct negotiations on that. So believe me, I get chilly when I think about this. On the one hand, you have a completely unsettled record of state-owned immovableity. So, something the Property Directorate has been dealing with, what the Directorate has been doing in the last year, and it's really doing a good job. On the other hand, you have such a bad interpretation of the law and application based on it. Believe me, when I asked for decisions or solutions to which that conversion was made, the Property Directorate was not asked for an opinion at all, therefore, no opinion at all. The defense attorney's opinion was once given never at all. That's why we need a better defense organization. And I would agree with you completely if it weren't for this kind of thing, if we didn't regulate some already existing system, we would regulate the existing system because the way it works is bad. It's up to us from the executive power to give our maximum, that he's doing much better. Unfortunately, it's happened in the past, and we pass a law that creates even worse conditions. So it's up to us to give our maximum to make this topic and this area as well as possible. I think that, in ordinary life, a citizen's law, about, say, amendments and additions to the law on non-partisan proceedings, or on litigation, brings some more visible changes to the citizen. So much of the law that is the systemic nature of these visible changes to the first sighting and not giving, but when you enter matter and how. I think we'd agree on one more thing. Of course, a citizen is often the incomprehensible essence of the law that we are discussing here and that we are bringing. We will also agree that the medical and legal professions, the professions most often exposed to the comments of laymen, and that each of us and each of our neighbors, friends, comrades are often known to be either in the role of doctors, or in the role of lawyers, and that I have established a diagnosis and that I give legal opinions. So there would be no specialization through the education system for these two extremely important professions, but it is up to us here and through this debate to bring citizens closer to what is the benefit of passing these laws. I'll agree that when a change of article 85 is mentioned. The law on litigation does not mean anything to a citizen, but if you say to a citizen that the existing law is obliged to engage only a lawyer as a pro-legislator, i.e. as a court representative, this is exactly what I am saying, therefore, Article 85 is prescribed, and that these amendments and additions of the law do not significantly increase this circle of the person, but it expands and that I am confident, soon in the assembly procedure of the law on free legal assistance that needs to be completed by this system of representation before the court, then it creates a systemic continent and does not narrow the circle of rights, but rather increases them on the contrary. I want to thank you because if you hadn't started your discussion this way as well as your discussion the other day, I probably wouldn't have spoken like this right now, and I think these exchanged opinions and arguments are of benefit to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1296	My colleague Marjanović, on what grounds? According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I did not react immediately after your controversy with my colleague Martinovic, not wanting to interrupt her discussion and discussion of the minister, but member 103 and members of 105th and further on holding order at the session. So, you have warned colleague Vesna Martinovic about using a metaphor in her presentation and I must admit that since I was an MP, this has never happened to the president or teaching something like that. After that, then, not because she was away from the topic, as you said, but because she used the metaphor, the minister said, very exhaustingly. In my personal belief, he was far more distant from the subject than my colleague, but I don't think that's the subject, because I think his exposure was very substantial, and so was hers. I would ask you to keep an eye on how you treat the opposition in the future, as this speaks to Parliament's reputation. The way you use the principles of chairing the session according to the opposition and the flexibility you show towards the executive authority, this is now not an apprehension specifically to Minister Selaković, on the contrary, but only to you, therefore, if you apply the principles, chair, while you are holding a session of one, more stringent towards the MPs and especially to the opposition, and very flexible to the executive authority, it says a lot about how you understand Parliament and the dignity of this house. And yes, I'm asking the Parliament in voting day to make a statement on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1298	Since I am obliged to answer you, the National Assembly will certainly declare in the Voting Day that your advertised injury to the Rules of Procedure has been announced, however, the chairman must take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. Article 106 provides that the MP can only talk about the agenda point when he gets his word. I also agree that the chairman, as well as all fellow Members of the people, should take care of that, or care for the reputation of the National Assembly. I don't think anyone can blame me when they amend and supplement the law, some MP calls it "a day-to-day drive". They were all there and they heard. It is said that the amendments and additions of the law are more like "a driving order". So metaphors are allowed, we forbid no one, but the MPs also have to make sure that these same metaphors are used in a certain way. When it comes to criteria, one thing I wanted was for my colleague to return to the agenda. I don't know where some of the stories about Megatrend College, what's who by profession, etc., everyone's writing it in their biography, but I let my colleague finish, that it's not the "driving agenda" issue, but it's the problem that the laws haven't been studied enough. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (Yes) Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, on what grounds? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1299	Ladies and gentlemen, I came forward immediately after the injury, to advertise Article 103(1) and Article 106(3). It is, therefore, an attitude that says: “The MP has the right to orally point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers it to be wrong with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, done at the session of the National Assembly that is under way, and that is immediately after the injury has been done. ” The previous pay phone, which I respect, didn't do it in good time. She did not point to an injury when she thought it was done, but later spoke the minister of justice. When he was finished, she responded to a breach of the Rules of Procedure which could only be done in connection with the proceedings of the chairman, during the speech of the Minister of Justice, and was in no way able to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure based on your objection to the details presented at the time of my distinguished Member of Parliament who spoke as the authorised representative of the Democratic Party. So, I respect your tolerance for the opposition, continue to do so, but in the future, you use the right to favor the opposition a little more rarely. Article 106: “During the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search – which is you – it is not allowed to throw or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. ” While you were performing, you could hear very well that you were getting from the bench, not agreeing with your opinion. So you didn't apply the Rules of Procedure either. I respect your right to be more patient with them than you are with us, and I will always stand up for that. I'm not asking you to vote on this, just so the viewers know that you tolerate the opposition, which I still advise you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1300	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Obviously, you asked the question and gave the answer. Of course, the chairman should have a slightly more tolerated relationship with MPs and colleagues who do not support the government of the Republic of Serbia and we will always be open to such a single relationship. There is, as I understand it, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1301	Art. 103 and 104, and as far as the sitting order is concerned, Article 108. Mr. Chairman, you've really shown, to this day, exceptional tolerance, I must say, especially with regard to the President of Parliament. But I want to ask you a few things about what happened earlier. Metaphor is a common thing and a style figure in Serbian language widely used by SNS representatives. The passing times, the breath, the marathon race and other things no one in this assembly has ever responded and I think it's a good thing he didn't react. If we are also deprived of the right to metaphor, and the colleague spoke of “a driving order, ” there is nothing offensive about “a driving order. ” Moreover, the most frequently used figure of style by Mr. Vukic and Mr. Babic is the "driving order". Why didn't anyone react then? And our letter didn't come forward because the minister spoke. Otherwise, I think in this situation, I ask you once again, here, for a minute and 10 seconds I am speaking, you listen to me when I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I respect it, and I am grateful, but I ask you to make some internal college, vice president of the Assembly with the President, to allow Members, all without distinction, to have the usual practice when advertised by the Rules of Procedure to have the right two minutes to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which was normal and usual until now. It doesn't have to be like that, but it was like that. I'm asking you to keep it that way, because otherwise, there's already a narrowed down possibility for the opposition to say something. I'm not talking about minutes. Because indeed something that citizens are increasingly noticing, and I don't think it ruins the reputation of the DS, but it violates Parliament's reputation. This was one of those situations. You know, I'm not "bringing," I'm throwing it out of place. But I come from a place where I simply can't reach the chairman, explain to him that simple things are being written and should only be applied. But don't apply them strictly by the letter of the Rules of Procedure... . (President: I beg you to bring an end. )......................................................................................................... Because if that's how we start working, no one will be able to explain anything in this assembly, and the "right" if it's become a problem, then we really hit the wall and I don't think there's any going out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1302	Mr. Stefanovic, I have to draw attention to you that there was no metaphor here in terms of what the law says, but the metaphor was used for the name of the amendments and the addition of the law. If someone gives their metaphors to some of their shops, of course it can't be offensive, but if someone does that to someone else's suggestions, we all have some different threshold of tolerance and understanding of what's offensive. I'm trying to be even too strict, but not too mild for such things to happen in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. A colleague named Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1303	Chairman, do I have the right to a replica since I was directly mentioned? If I don't have the right to a replica, then I will use the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 107 and 108. In one good part, I would agree with metaphors and that it is part of political expression and that our language and our political expression are many such terms and I think we should all cultivate such a process. However, I am neither a lawyer nor outside this hall, nor do I think that the President of Parliament needs a lawyer, but if we know that the breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be done by the President or by the chairman of the National Assembly, then it is degradeable, disdainful for both this Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly to use the violation of the Rules of Procedure against the President of the Assembly who did not chair the Assembly at that time. Internal College? Even though I'm going to say one sentence now and I'm going to go into replica, even though I don't want it to be a replica, there isn't an internal college. There is a College of the National Assembly whose members of the parliamentary groups, the president of parliament and vice-presidents of parliament, so there is no internal college and I think that the breach of the Rules of Procedure was done in such a way that you did not warn the previous speaker that he could not harm the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, or the President of Parliament, who at that time did not have a session and was not in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1304	Thank you, colleague Granny. I didn't want to interrupt the speaker when he was talking about advertising the Rules of Procedure. Likewise, each of the presidents, or vice presidents of the National Assembly, has some of their own criteria that apply. We tend to be as unique as possible, but as there are no same people, it is so difficult to achieve. The most important thing is that everyone who holds the presidency of the National Assembly has the same relationship with all the MPs, regardless of which group they come from. The People's MP Vesna Martinovic came forward for the word. On what basis do you want the word? (Vesna Martinovic, from town: Remaining time. ) I apologize, but counterpart Dragan Nikolic has already applied to the system, and you can when he is finished. (Vesna Martinovic, from the place: I will wait, of course. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1305	Mr. Chairman, I want to be a gentleman, and since Mrs. Vesna has stood up and asked you to finish her presentation, which she has interrupted at one point, probably brought with emotions that were obviously stronger, so she can continue, and I ask you to give her a word and bring her to an end, and I will be patient and I will use my 20 minutes afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1306	A colleague, Nikolic, said that he had the right to speak to you, and he would continue after you. (Vesna Martinovic, from the post: I respect his decision, but the Rules of Procedure are Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1307	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we debated yesterday all day about a set of laws of so-called jurisprudence. Yesterday we had three laws on the agenda. Today, five draft laws and proposals for amending and supplementing certain laws are on the agenda. I want to remind the public that these aren't new laws, that these aren't laws written in minutes to twelve, that they didn't enter the Assembly quickly and overnight, that no one knew about them. The public must know that most of these proposals were on the website of the Republic government in autumn 2012, that anyone who wanted to know their content could read, make an analysis, prepare themselves, participate in a public debate on these laws, that public readings and public appearances were for the professional public. They were also available to the layman’s public, so that no one in this congregation could object that these laws were time for someone to prepare them, to read them, and that they were a surprise to all of us. It's quite clear that in the election that we've all come up with a specific program, we've all come up with certain ideas. It is also clear that in his exposé, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic also touched chapters 23 and 24 in negotiations with the EU. I am convinced that all of these laws that we discussed yesterday in principle, and today these five very important laws that will enable us to create climate, atmosphere and legal certainty so that we and the European Commission can open chapters 23 and 24 and go into negotiations and create conditions so that in 2018, when we pass all chapters, we expect the EU's parliaments to decide to adopt the Republic of Serbia and that, what was designed in the exhibition of the Prime Minister, in 2020, we enter the EU as a full member. I would remind the public that they were on the agenda today, and I have to do it because the colleagues who spoke before me in this assembly, talked about everything, not just these laws, talked about the laws that were on the agenda yesterday, and the chairman was very tolerated, let them talk about it, one said that it was too fast under these laws, the others said that it was slow and that many other changes should be introduced, some were not important form, and some, unfortunately, did not matter either, and therefore I want to remind the public that we are discussing today the draft law on defence, the draft law on intervening disputes, the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on litigation. In his presentation, Mr. Minister very detailedly presented all the details, most marked, most important parts of these laws, as well as proposals on amendments and additions to these laws. All this is very important because it contributes to quality, contributes to efficiency, contributes to legal certainty, contributes to the ability of courts to work in a much better way, to dissipate in many matter, to match these laws with the laws that have already been passed in this assembly in the past and previous year. I am particularly referring to the Law on Public Registration, because it will enter into force and will begin its application as of 1 September 2014, when this law on extra-parnical procedure will also have very important matter laid down for notaries or public notaries. I also, with no intention of repeating what the minister said, wrote down some details that are very important to these laws. The Law on Defence, which has been passed and which we are changing today, was adopted in 1991, in completely other political and economic and historical circumstances, and you will admit, it was more than necessary to give its changes, to do something that is important right now and the political situation in Serbia, as well as that we are now a country that is a candidate for entry into the EU and which must therefore meet the many conditions that are ahead of it, which we meet to make it better for all of us, and not because of what we are going to do for the citizens of the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Germany. This law regulates the workaround and position of the defence, establishment, jurisdiction, regulation and organisation of the state, defence of the AP and defence of units of local self-government. Therefore, in addition to changing the name, the substance is also changed, and the jurisdiction of the State's Attorney General is changed. The state's attorney's responsibility, his obligation to the Justice Department, to file a report to the Justice Ministry, to control what the state's attorney is doing. He has at all times the obligation to follow all regulations in the Republic of Serbia, to put those regulations to the Constitutional Court for questioning. He is obliged to file a report on everything he's done and that the deputy attorney general is reporting to the state's attorney. This hierarchy is very important to know who is responsible for what, so that if damage occurs, who will make up for it. Also, the lawyer is a body that performs property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units. I'd especially like to point out the attorney general's jurisdiction. He is a representative of the Republic of Serbia in front of courts, arbitration and the authorities of the administration. Advocacy before foreign and international courts and arbitration is also his job, representing the European Court of Human Rights, launching a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality, giving legal advice, providing legal assistance and handling for the settlement of the dispute when on the one hand the Republic of Serbia, or local units. The appointment of the Attorney General is being carried out by the Government and we expect it within 90 days of the adoption of this law. It will certainly be someone of great legal experience, who will meet all the conditions. In addition to being passed a judicial examination, we heard that the deputy secretary of state, who will be working before the European Court of Human Rights, must actively know one of the languages that is officially used in those courts. It'll be either English or French. Therefore, they must be people who have been fully qualified and people who have proved themselves and confirmed themselves in their previous profession. The aim of the law is to create conditions for the best quality protection of property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units. A very important and no less important Law on Intermediation in Dispute Resolution. The law aims to settle the dispute on its own, discharging courts to a significant extent. This agreement can be reached even in the executive procedure, i.e. at the end of the litigation procedure and each other and there is the possibility that parties agree to engage in communication and therefore engage a particular professional person who will intervene in the resolution of their dispute. In this way, many court costs will be avoided, procedures interrupted and parties will be given the opportunity to make their own decision, on debt, to make one agreement with each other. These disputes that can be settled by intermediation are possible in property-law disputes, in family, in economic, administrative, consumer, labour and in particular in criminal and criminal matters in respect of claims for damages or so on. the property-law requirements, where the parties may agree with each other even before the criminal proceedings or criminal proceedings are concluded, in order to facilitate the defendant’s position in the proceedings before the court. There are principles of mediation: volunteering, meaning, parties volunteer to intervene, i.e. in resolving disputes by intermediation, equality, are fully equal in the process, the public is excluded, there is no possibility that what has been discussed, which has been tried to agree, is used afterwards in public or in some procedure, it remains a secret between the parties, the neutrality of the one who intervenes between these parties, the urgency of the procedure. This procedure shall be initiated by the conclusion of an intermediation agreement and shall last for a maximum period of 60 days. The parties may give up at any stage of this procedure, they may cease to negotiate and return to court. What is also important is the delay in the limitation of the claim, as well as the deadline for filing a complaint pending the mediation procedure. So there's no statute of limitations. It may be the longest 60 days of this procedure. One newspaper that is very important is that the dispute settlement agreement through mediation may have the power of the executive title under two conditions – if the debtor agrees and this is explicitly put into the agreement and if the signatures of the agreement are certified in a court or in a public notebook or notary. Each of the intermediaries is authorised after a certain completed training period to three years and if they meet all the conditions and have a certain number of interventions in the course and three years, the permit shall be extended for the next five years. All intermediaries are listed in the register of intermediaries, with whom you can contact by e-mail, phone, call and select a man, or person who will mediate. All this isn't about cost increases. Costs shall be borne by the parties, each of their own, and by common costs, shall be agreed to share amongst themselves. The application of the law is from 1 January 2015, and what is the characteristic of this law is that the provisions of Articles 6 to 8 and Article 33 of Article 5 are applied from the date of Serbia's entry into the EU. So it goes to meet what awaits us, which is EU accession. Also, the Law on Prosecution, which is now on the agenda, aims to reduce the number of representations of the European Court of Human Rights. It goes to a more efficient trial, to shorten procedures and more essential elements. The most remarkable for me is that now it becomes a rule to judge a greater judge, and that an individual judge is extremely judged by the tax-listed procedures that he can conduct and which are the exception to this rule. Also, what's important right now, the attorney-in-law doesn't have to be an exclusive lawyer. There is a limited number of those persons who can represent, but is not exclusively a lawyer, and it is not necessary for the party to be exposed to costs, and today we heard from the minister that legal aid law will also work. That's how this whole area will relax. A very important change in the rejection of charges, one change that is acceptable. Before the court dismisses the suit, he is required to hold a hearing at which to be held and give the prosecutor a chance to plead once more and try to convince the judge that the case can continue, that there is no rejection of the case, and then a new lawsuit and new costs and a new waste of time. What's also important, and what we've had in practice as a great deal of trouble so far, is that the court didn't want to get an address at all. If the prosecutor file a lawsuit, the defendant is not at the address, he was obliged to resort, go to the police station where he was rejected, but now the court is obliged to request an address from the state authorities, of course where the residence is or if it has been changed, a residence to find out and to send a call to that address. That's how the procedure is accelerated. What is most important in the amendment to the Law on the Prosecution Procedure is that the review price is down from 100,000 euros in property-law disputes to 40,000 in dinar equivalent on the day of the lawsuit and in commercial disputes is down from 300,000 euros to 100,000 euros, thus allowing many to submit an audit and thus to reduce pressure on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Procedure will contribute to a more economical and efficient settlement of disputes in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms and Decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. The law on extra-parnical proceedings was passed away in 1982. It was now necessary to pass a new law that would be in line with the Family Relations Act, the Health Protection Act, the Law on a litigation procedure, etc., and especially because of compliance with the Law on Public Libraries. The newspaper in this law is the deprivement of a business capacity that is limited to three years in continuous checks and the possibility of verifying and reducing the restrictions on rights. We know from before that it was a permanent deprivement of business ability. That's when you could have abused it and it could've been to someone else's harm. This time, it's a newspaper to limit itself to constant checking. The court can also trust notaries to carry out procedures that it is responsible for with constant control and the possibility of confiscation of cases. Notaries can do undeniable desert proceedings and disbursement the court to a large extent. If we know that one third of all cases in courts, and there are a million in all courts in 2012, belongs to the outsider, and we also know that, according to the Law on Public Registration, a large part of this out-of-pard procedure is given to public notebooks. This means that the courts, or corridors and judicial units, are much more relieved, and the judges who have worked on these cases will be able to go to other departments and do their job. The notaries begin their work on September 1st and therefore we pass this law. Most importantly, the notary system will not increase the costs of the parties. The notaries will be paid by the court in the notary's tariff. I hope that the Chamber of Notaries will come to life and that they will begin their work from 1 September 2014. As for the law of execution and security, there is no major change. So far, the perpetrators have been tied to basic and commercial courts, and now, according to this law, there will be an amendment by having jurisdiction over the territory of a higher court. This is because we changed the Law on the Territories of Fundamental and Higher Courts. This is one thing with that law. Finally, we are passing all the laws by emergency procedure in order to prevent the adverse consequences of the work of the judicial authorities and the exercise of citizens' rights. I call on everyone to vote for this law in the voting day, and I am sure that the SNS parliamentary group will do so and give support to our Minister Nikola Selakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1308	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1309	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, since I have little time, I will try to look back, at least as much time as it allows, on some of today's draft laws. As far as the first law is concerned, I'm talking about Attorney General. I think it's a good thing in the first place that it determines the very concept of defence, i.e. that the term State's Attorney's Office is now being used, and I think that from a nomotechnical point of view, it's a more appropriate term. So, the state's attorney, unlike the former republican public defender, because I personally could never understand the term "public defender", because in that case he would be an antiquity – a secret defender. The Attorney General shall, first and foremost, protect the interests of the legal persons representing, and not as it has been stated so far, in the law to protect the public interest. It is a good thing that such a law finally governs the powers of the Attorney General, in the first place, and I don't think that those in the current law have been regulated, which is being introduced, which is further specified and extended. It certainly represents a newspaper to be welcomed. Also, practice has shown that it was necessary to introduce and define such a single draft law of the principle of devolution and substitution. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on a litigation procedure, I think they represent one necessary, in any case a significant step towards creating conditions for the more effective handling of courts and approximation of European standards. At the very beginning of this bill, we find two members with better solutions than was provided for by the current Law on Prosecution. Namely, the number of litigation cases the individual judge is dealing with has now been increased, which will certainly result in a reduction in the number of litigation cases the larger judge, which is composed of the president of the council, as the judge, and judges of the jury. I think this solution is much better, because the role of a jury judge, we'll all admit, at least we who come from practice, that it's not that important, and their role in all the countries that belong to the continental system, is almost at a miserable level. Here, it should be stressed that this reduces the costs of the judicial administration and enables more efficient and faster handling of courts. Also, another addition that I would like to commend in the proposal for this amendment law and the additions of the Law on Procedural Procedure, is the solution that is provided for before adopting a solution to the rejection of the complaint, for the reasons set out in Article 294. The AKP, the court is obliged to hold a hearing at which it will give the prosecutor a chance, an opportunity and allow him to plead for the rejection of the suit. The solution that has so far been provided for in the current legal provision provided for the possibility of judges, in order to reduce the number of cases, a completely non-critical relationship with regard to the adoption of a withdrawal solution. I also have some concerns about specific members. When it comes to Article 13, which in its position 2, where it is said that the revision is not allowed in property-legal disputes unless the value of the disputed part is exceeded by a dinar equivalent of 40,000 euros per NBS average rate on the day of appeal. I am merely expressing my skepticism with regard to the introduction of such a provision in the draft law and its position 2, because the value of the dispute, as a property censor, is a condition for the application of this legal remedy, so I am talking about the revision. So far, this condition has been set in such a way that a large number of parties in those proceedings, in which the value of the dispute was less than 100,000 euros, have been impossible to protect the application of such an emergency drug to the Supreme Cassation Court. Since the amount of dispute in commercial legal disputes has been reduced by three times, so that in these disputes the revision is allowed if the value of the dispute is greater than 100,000 euros, in dinar anti-value, and in the existing law, that amount is set to 300,000 euros, then it would be logical, at least in my opinion, that in these disputes, therefore in disputes before regular courts, as courts of general jurisdiction, this amount is identically reduced by three times, thus making the citizens available to the courts in each court instance. As regards the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Non-Parking Procedure, I consider them to be an extortional solution, all for the purpose of harmonising and in order to imitate the submitted Law on Public Registration, since the most significant number of amendments and additions to the provisions, which are amended, refer precisely to the Institute of Public Registration. In this place, I also have to express a skepticism, and related to the Law on Public Registration, if we take Slovenia as a good example of a country in the region, we must note that from the moment of the adoption of the Law on Public Registration until the final establishment of a public notary chamber, it has been seven years, if not more, at least after what I did in parallel legal analysis. Furthermore, as regards the Law on Off-pard procedure, it has been in application since 1983, and it is essential that as an important procedural law be brought into line with the highest legal acts. In this place, I will show my regrets, but at the same time the hope that in some future period, not to go this partial to changes and additions, because I am the supporter of changes and additions I have never been, but to pass a whole new Act on extraparious procedure. I think it's the only way to overcome this context that's completely abandoned and that's for sure that even time so far has denied it, if you will, and run it over. As for the proposal for mediation in dispute settlement, the first Law on Mediation, or Mediation, I will finish here, it has been implemented since 2002 and during that period of law enforcement, regardless of what...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1310	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1311	... I'll finish, it'll come later. I think it was an epic step. So the good things that have been done before in some previous times need to be said to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1312	Thank you. Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic, I would like to ask, in accordance with Article 138. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, responsible services, to draw out the cards of those MPs who are not in the O.R. that, as this regulation requires, they take them to the secretary general's office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1313	It would also be nice to ensure the minister's presence when the debate on the bill proposed by Minister Selakovic is. If he doesn't write anywhere in the Rules of Procedure, it's a nice custom for the minister to listen to what he has to be told. The New Party MPs will not vote positively for these draft laws except for the Law on Defence, provided that our three amendments are adopted. Of course, we are aware that it is also necessary to pass new laws from areas that have not been legally defined and to amend laws that are ancient, which have not been adequately shown in practice. But there is no reason for these laws to be passed by an emergency procedure, nor is there any reasonable reason to conduct a joint debate on laws that do not have many similarities, except that they come from the same ministry and are addressing the issue concerning the ministry. We have five draft laws, a total of 204 new members, a total of 340 and some pages of text with ambition that parliament is Serbian, which is layish, like everyone in this world, to adequately discuss and respond to these bill proposals in a few days. That's completely pointless. None of these laws have the need to be adopted by emergency procedure, because they can't in the next few days, weeks, and months to have any negative consequences or judicial authorities, which is less important, not for the citizens, which is more important, and there won't be any. We have a special example of the Law on Intervention in Dispute Resolution, which takes effect, if adopted, on January 1st of the following year. What's the reason for the emergency procedure? Some members of the law, members from 6-8 and Article 33 of Position 5, shall apply from the date of accession of the RS. With best wishes and best wishes, I think that this danger of Serbia's rapid entry into the EU does not exist, so there is no need for urgent action. I repeat, it is completely unclear, i.e. clearly, but there is no reasonable reason why these five laws are put into joint investigation and what links the Law on Defence and the Law on Intervention in Disputing Disputes. Of course there's no basis for that. I have a complete understanding of this new pace that the new government is in continuity and its president has given to all ministers and this story of early rise, urgency and speed can be interesting, but I am going back to one more fact that the election was only over a few months ago. This power and most have enough time, long term, enough, I hope, knowledge, desire, good intentions to send all those good bill proposals to parliament for discussion and adoption to do so, without any unnecessary urgency, especially where there is no legitimate reason. We have already said that we are here to protect parliament from some attempts to push it into unconstitution. As we said we would support one draft law, during yesterday's debate, and now to repeat -- if three amendments to the draft Law on Defence are adopted, the MEPs will vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1314	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Let MP Borislav Stefanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1315	Ladies and gentlemen, let me use the metaphor, our peasants, and my previous colleague and I understand that, they usually say – when you have a groat, you're not bad. As far as these laws are concerned, I have to challenge the previous exposure. And what they have to do with each other, for example. Finally, we need to sort things out, because at this point we have over three million pending cases. Some disputes persist over the legacy in Belgrade for about 40 years. A dispute over inheritance and litigation in Soko Banja lasts 52 years. These laws, as far as I could see from my point of view as a farmer, want first of all to relieve the courts, and the Attorney General has nothing to do with this dispute settlement. But there is. If the Attorney General responds in time to state property, local self-government property, etc., in that case there is no need for a dispute. Let's say, if the question is some bidding on which agricultural land is auctioned, I'm undermining agricultural land for five years, and then on that agricultural land, the purpose is changed without the permission of the Ministry of Agriculture, although it's agricultural land, and it's been leased for five years, and instead of barley, wheat, corn, etc., we plant a vineyard then we have one dispute. If this land was the subject of nationalisation, and whoever obtained it in the lease has a contract with the people to carry out denationalisation and restitution or restitution, then and how I have the dispute for which it was responsible for the defence because it did not respond in time to protect the state property from which the legal followers, and it is about the Jaksic family, were compensated for the damage because the land which could have been physically returned had to be compensated for financial property, so that 52 hectares that someone had won for five years, unauthorized on it, had to pay the vineyard, if not by verdict, if not at the request of the defence, then we would have to pay for the additional one million dinars by means of Strasbourg and that 52 acres to pay for the renter, which we had no consent, if not at the request of law enforcement, if we did not pay him with 55,000 euros. If the D.A. had responded to that lease, it would not have been possible even in the bidding phase because, at the bidding, the D.A.'s rule is a little blind and we're deaf. Two legal entities appeared at the bidding to compete on the same plot under the same code. Look at the wonders, in public competition, both legal faces represent the same man. Imagine now that I appear at the auction and represent two firms that bid on each other. Was the D.A. not supposed to react, was he supposed to sleep over, was he supposed to take a nap, etc? I also don't understand how anyone can devalue the relationship between disputes and the defence if he was a federal police minister at the time of 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, at the time of so-called. the mouth affair, selling buildings of the Central Committee?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1316	Mr. Risticevic, please just come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1317	I'm in the dark. I'm on the subject right now. So, during this privatisation, of course, state property was meant to protect the defence. It was a federal public defendership that is now changing the Republic of Serbia's defence, i.e. the State's Defence of the Republic of Serbia. So, during the privatisation, if there were a real law on the defence, if there were a defence, there could be no competition, the federal government, and it would say that the competition would be conducted by the competition commission. The competition lasts for 30 days, and the competition commission is educated after 45 days. I'm asking you, what kind of law were these on defense, and what kind of defense was that at the time? Not to ask what the federal government was like, 'cause maybe I'll get out of the agenda, so you'll warn me. Certainly, the federal police minister had to take care to protect that defence and, unless he was doing his job by law, to file an appropriate criminal report, which of course was not done. Speaking of D.A., let's deepen it a little bit. The competition was attended by a company called the "IK Group", which led a particular consortium. The D.A. knew that, but, look at the wonders, it kept quiet. The contest is over... . Please calm these uncontrollable colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1318	I ask the MPs not to receive from the post and I ask MP Rističević not to declare individual cases and return to the topic. The subject is the Law of Defence. Please go back to the subject and talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1319	If it's the subject of the defense, I'm talking about the D.A. and I'm telling you exactly what the D.A. hasn't been up to now and why the laws are changing... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1320	Yes, but please don't now about the federal government and what happened 15 years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1321	You don't have the right to stop me from talking about defense in a way... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1322	I have the right to return you to the subject. Please, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1323	I'm on the subject. Here, I'm talking about Attorney General. I say -- the federal defence attorney's office missed the opportunity to notice that they won the "MK Group to the consortium" contest, and the contract was signed with the firm in December, which was not registered during the competition, but was registered only four months later and the defence was silent. It even says here in this document, says - federal public defendership, a completely different version of the contract, etc. What's this about? It is that a single version of the contract was delivered to the Attorney General, which gave consent, and a completely different version was signed which was not with the federal defence attorney. That's where some of our information houses were talking about started. I have clearly proved that and how it has to do with the public defendership with a peaceful dispute settlement, because this dispute will have to be resolved peacefully or we will be sued by owners who will seek restitution, or maybe the city of Belgrade, which has missed the opportunity to protect its property, as a beneficiary of state property, will perhaps seek some compensation, to return it to them because the privatisation of the building is CK, from or the building "The mouth", done quite the opposite of what was written in the contest. So the D.A. didn't protect his property, and I talked about it the whole time. One of the tasks, the minister made it clear, and I think he listens very carefully, that one of the main tasks of the defence, according to these new changes and additions, will be to protect the state's property, to protect local defences' property of local self-government, to protect the province's defence property belonging to the province, and to ensure that everyone takes care of the legality. As far as litigation and non-partisan proceedings and peaceful dispute resolution are concerned, I must also ask – will there be a solution to outstanding claims against farmers? Today, when those who buy it have no obligation, no registration, no deposit to make, when everyone deals with the purchase of agricultural products, farmers cheat who arrive. How can they resolve their disputes, for today’s buyers no longer buy agricultural products, but take them over, and farmers no longer sell their agricultural products, but hand them over. Even such terms are used on our televisions. I also have to ask – will these laws solve disputes that farmers will have with the state about the savage privatisation of agricultural and agricultural cooperatives, which have not been sought, and in a certain way have been owned by them? The former regime did not protect them in any way. Will these disputes be resolved in this way? In the end, I have to say it's very difficult, it's easy to rule, the former regime ruled, now it's up to the state and the judiciary to build. So I will support the minister of justice, wanting to wish him that regardless of the personnel we found in the judiciary would help build justice, help build a state. And finally, to conclude that the purpose of justice is to fight evil with good and replace it with a better one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1324	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm guessing a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1325	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I think the injured members are 106, 108 and 109. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Can I explain? So, in point 106, the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. We are now taking part in a joint principled search on proposals for five laws, defences, mediation, dispute resolution, litigation, out-of-party proceedings, enforcement and security. Mr. Risticevic had just explained his idea to become Mr. Zoran Zivkovic's personal biographer. That's not our agenda point. Please allow me to complete this explanation. Mr. Chairman, like order, acted according to the Rules of Procedure, warned Mr. Risticevic that his idea of becoming a personal biographer of Zoran Zivkovic was not now on the agenda, but Mr. Risticevic continued to explain his idea. Mr. Chairman had an obligation to give a warning to Mr. Risticevic under article 109 because he continued to talk about something that was not the point of the agenda. I think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1326	Mr. Risticevic was moving around in the context of the topic and spoke about the Law on Defence and the peaceful resolution of disputes. When I thought and thought he was away from the topic, I warned him. So you can make a statement as to whether the National Assembly will make a statement in the voting day about whether the injured Rules of Procedure have been injured. You can't throw it at me. So you do. Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1327	Mr. Chairman, in order to be able to say that this is Article 103 paragraph 1, paragraph 2, point 3 of Article 104 on replicas. So you have to turn me on first. Do you mind? I said Article 103(1) of Article 104 relating to replicas, do you allow it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1328	I'm sorry, I don't allow a replica, but you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1329	According to the Rules of Procedure, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1330	Yes, but you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so there's no need and there's no reason for replication. I didn't understand that Mr. Pavicevic offended you or that it was wrong to interpret your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1331	Wait till I'm done, be patient. So I'm not looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1332	I'm sorry, we can't do this. Listen to me, please. The question is, are you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1335	If you were a little more patient and you'd just wait a little while, you'd know that I'm a 104th advertiser, not to get a replica, but something else, as well as Article 103. I do not dispute my colleague's right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor his right to hear what I did not say in that breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I am responsible only for what I said, not what they think they heard. So it's his right even to think he heard something that I said, even though I didn't say it, but he was about to do a replica. Please, if that's not clear to anyone, take a stenogram copy. I never once mentioned my esteemed colleague Zoran Zivkovic. I was talking about the federal government, the federal minister of justice, the vineyards in Krcedin, and there are far more of them, I was talking about a public competition in India that was done, and the attorney in local self-government was not responding. Please, look carefully, I didn't really mention my dear colleague for one moment, and I can't answer for what they think I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1336	I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1337	Thank you. I'm advertising a violation of Article 106(1) which says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Chairman, many here today have not talked about agenda points. We were able to hear about privatisations a little while ago, we could hear about agricultural cooperatives, but I don't know what that has to do with the D.A.'s office, and I don't know what that has to do with the draft law on dispute settlement and all the other points on the agenda today. I didn't really know that the agenda point was the federal government, or once the federal ministry, or that we were in 2002, or that we were in 2001, so I'm asking you just to warn the MPs that they're following the agenda in the future. Today we have an extremely important set of judicial laws, so let's get some justice to deal with, at least today. I'm asking to make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1338	Thank you. I believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, that MP Rističic spoke on the subject and I believe that the discussion in parliament cannot be only closely tied and exclusively, it must be given to MPs and some opportunity to connect it with some past and, of course, what awaits us in the future. These are, as you said, the serious laws, the serious things we're discussing, so I don't think he came out of the subject in that domain, that I would have to apply Article 108. The Rules of Procedure and to warn him. That wasn't the case with Mr. Risticevic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare this? Yeah. Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break of an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing today's work. I would like to inform you that according to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that, if necessary, the National Assembly will work today after 1800 hours, but the longest until the end of a joint principled search that is under way, given the need for the National Assembly to bring the act from the sitting agenda as soon as possible. The next on the list is MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1340	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, we have a set of laws in the area of justice that have been sent to the Serbian Assembly by emergency procedure and of course they regulate our judicial system, for the citizens of Serbia, for the exercise of their rights, and even for the European path of the Republic of Serbia very important segments of life that have been, to a greater or lesser extent, irregular or have been regulated in an inappropriate manner. That's where I fully agree with you, Mr. Minister. I think a lot of these things should have been done before, and I think there are things here, in these five laws that are in front of us, in which there are very positive, long-awaited changes. I also think that this urgency that has been done like this may not have been necessary at this time. This is where I join the criticism of certain colleagues who spoke in this direction. By talking to people who are in the practice of our judicial system, there is one real concern that these proposals create additional chaos and that through multinomiality and through the creation of new regulations, through the defiance of the regulation of our legal practice and the life of the legal one, a system is created where every detail will be regulated in a way that may not have been so far, which in practice creates huge problems, as you know. I am pleased that some of these draft laws and amendments to the laws that you delivered to the Serbian Parliament contain clarifications regarding previous practices, and I will try very briefly to touch these things too. What is also visible, it is that today we have an opportunity to discuss these proposals with you, but we also have an opportunity to talk to a minister who, I must admit, although reluctantly, is often in the Serbian Parliament and often in the committees of the Serbian Parliament, and in that sense you are indeed a political operational deviation compared to your colleagues and I am glad. What I'm not happy about is that we often talk about these things "aposteurs", so after some problems happen. I believe that you are running a very important system for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens who should go far more into step and ahead of the events that are happening to us, especially in the judiciary. You've heard here by the MPs, even most of them, that we have several million pending cases. I know you're not personally responsible for this, but it is an indicator of the illness of our judicial system, and as you know, expectations were huge, of how much it will reform and how much. I'm sorry there's no record of the current law enforcement results you've passed. We regret that we still do not have, although you have partially touched today, the achievements of letting go before the time of the people convicted of criminal sanctions, which is the first thing your authority has done, and I'm glad you talked about it at least, but I'm not glad we still don't have any clear representation of what financial savings have been achieved by a new network of courts, for example, or what they are, remember, the last time we talked about it, and you said that at some point that it would be delivered to the Assembly. We would really like to see how much savings this has really brought to the citizens of Serbia and our otherwise burdened budget. What's equally visible, not just around the network, but we, ministers, have a marked rise in crime. Your ministry could deliver not only the link between those 2,500 people you let out of prison before time, but also the turn and look at what is happening now and what are the causes of this and what is the direct link between the laws you provide and the currently very bad security situation in the Republic of Serbia. I don't see an explanation of how realistic these bill proposals are going to be, I repeat, unnecessarily brought about by an emergency procedure, to speed up court proceedings, and we're afraid, with a slight turn of what was debated yesterday, that we might be in trouble that some people with more money might be able to avoid serving criminal sanctions in prisons and some of us will be able to serve them at home. There are many vague situations left, you know very well, at least to me, to what extent and how it will be able to avoid, the arbitration which unfortunately marked the work of the judiciary in that area in the previous period. We wouldn't want to continue to attend situations where people talk about someone having the right to a gig and someone has to go to Mitrovica. These are the things that you too are responsible for trying, within your jurisdiction, undermining, that there may be no misunderstanding. As far as the Law of Defence is concerned, we now have a situation to essentially change the name of the organ. Some of my colleagues talked about it, but I don't see anything else changing. I'm still not very clear, no excuse for urgency, no further motive, except for changing the name of the organ. So he's no longer called in one way but another. We have a similar situation with mediation and mediation. The Mediation Act was passed in 2005, and now we have the Mediation Act. Mediation is an ugly word, of foreign origin, not Serbian, so we've changed that now. You know that since 2005, this system has not really been alive and has not yielded results, and I suppose that's where you agree with me. I would really like us to see that this problem comes to life, because if it doesn't come to life, our courts will continue to be buried in cases and they won't be able to solve the problems that bother citizens. The outsider procedure under the law that we are changing in part today was regulated by law in 1972. I have carefully read all the laws and I have seen that hate terms are being thrown out of the terminology – organizations, socio-political communities and so forth, but I still think and I think it was better that you have passed a new law already now. I don't believe and I don't see it, knowing that you have a good team around you, that it was too much of a legal challenge, realistically. On the other hand, I must admit that I'm used to often following the huge expectations of the citizens of what you will not personally but your authority do, what is realistically happening in the Assembly, that there is an extraordinary discord. Also, I am glad that this definitely revised view of the ruling majority compared to when they were the opposition, because at the time you claimed that the introduction of private perpetrators was unconstitutional and that was 2010, there was also legal activity of the radicals of the present advances, and you said that these were terrible things, that this must go to the Constitutional Court, etc. I think it's good that you've anticipated a return to the possibility of delaying execution, because it has created a number of problems and in some cases created an insurmountable obstacle for the citizens and I think it's normal and in accordance with the Constitution to put the possibility of delaying execution, but also all of what you've predicted I don't see so many significant changes except for further predicting the terminology, etc., etc. I think it's a good thing that the local authorities are set up, so I'm talking about the perpetrators now, it's a good thing that there's a risk that where we don't have a basic court can't follow the new amendments to the law that you've predicted, but what worries me as well as those executioners who are now yags and waiting for who to get to the collection of claims in relation to communal outstanding amounts is how they're going to be determined. I've seen that the intended option here was, or I'm still not sure, there's a little bit vague, and I know that you're going to explain whether they're now ranked based on their last name, or eventually they're going to be computer-defined, who's going to take over the items. I think this first system is very bad, because then someone named Seselj or Seshum will never get in line, and whoever's last name is not Alimpic, Aligrudic, or I don't know how they'll probably be favored in that sense, but you're only on "B", a colleague, so I wanted to make two extremes. So I believe you'll explain it to me. I'm asking this out of the obvious lack of understanding of that part. It's important that the perpetrators no longer see themselves as debtors, but I think we're all too late together trying not to, but I think it still exists. I also think that in the framework of the draft law in the Attorney's Office, I apologize for going back to that, we of the DS will look through the amendment, and I would like to inform you in advance of what our intention is that this committee that is to be formed, the committee for consensual dispute resolution, that there are two representatives of the Ministry of Finance and three representatives of the Ministry of Justice, because we believe that it is a sensitive area, needs more knowledge and expertise, and it is okay for the people of the finance ministry to know things, but also the people of the Justice Ministry can definitely help, let's say, in assessing the possibility of success in the dispute and more qualified to give to the ministry in charge, the people of the Justice Department. That will be our intention. I think it is clear to you that these five laws that you have delivered, that they are necessary to Serbia, that they may be late, that they may not be comprehensive. We've got some issues. We believe that if everything remains in this form, we cannot vote in favour, but we also believe that these laws are as necessary to the Republic of Serbia. Our grudge concerns, above all, why you are not deeper, stronger, better, more in the reform that you have long announced, why so much goes into the new production of norms in our judicial system, why finally our judiciary and people working within the legal order cannot face the certainty you promised, why we still have nothing here that will significantly reverse the disastrous position of our judiciary and the fall that unfortunately exists and which, your glorious victory, has failed to stop. So, great disappointments and things that are much higher in expectations and hopes by citizens than five important laws can change, brought by emergency procedure in a way that doesn't leave too much material here, or that you get anything and we find too many peas on the other side. What mistakes should be made, and what are the proposals, and our underlying objection, I think that colleague Martinovic said everything about these five laws, but I believe that when someone in this assembly is talking about the agenda or the "order of driving" is not a major offense but someone who talks about "heads in the sand" so that we avoid these things and that in the future we talk about laws or what is right in them or about what needs to be fixed and complemented. Believe us that we have really examined this in detail, and it is unclear why certain things change in a partial way, it is unclear why you have not passed new laws, it is unclear why the Law on a litigation procedure, which is so important and so long announced, is changing again in one piece, although we have heard that soon there will be a new law here. It's unclear why our entire justice system of the prosecution, the attorney's office, the notebooks, the lawyers, the people who deal with everyday citizens' problems, is constantly waiting for when the reforms are over, waiting for some radical changes, waiting for new adjustments, and we've had some things here that either perfected what was bad or introduce some new things that needed to be introduced far before, but without some great reach. I don't see any extreme good in this, I don't see any extreme bad, we understand each other right now, but I don't think the urgency is justified, and I think your ministry has much more capacity, and I think it is necessary to urgently form a parliamentary committee for the situation in Serbian prisons and it is still not done. There are a lot of things we have to do together, and on the other hand, I've heard your statements about the situation in Serbian prisons where you compared yourself to Italy, and that's good because their condition is up, but you also know that our prisons would be fuller for over two and a half thousand people if you hadn't let them go. The situation in our prisons is catastrophic, not all of it, but most of it is really bad and it's overbooked and I can't see, I can't help but notice that knowing the practice of so far, and I don't elaborate any government, no judicial authorities, no justice, because so far we've had so many abuses that the exception has become a rule. That's why I really think that you ministers, knowing your knowledge and your team, could have "honored" this assembly with a more comprehensive judicial package than the one you delivered to us. You could have your legal locks, verbally speaking about something more content, we could have talked here about something systemically arranged, and we got without any bad intentions, not on your part, but from some colleagues very interesting, sometimes funny comments where you as a minister of justice, a man with knowledge, should listen to some MPs from most, not even from the advances, about what term, what does it mean, so we often have a triple role as lawmakers. I also ask that we try to avoid this practice in the future, because we are enough when you, as a competent promoter, explain it to us, and other colleagues, if they are already within this 208-seat advanced sea, then let them find some other way of their activities, not to repeat what you said and underline the terms we have already heard. Not to mention that we heard some outflows of explanations about public notation with reference to our romanticism and phenomenal state before World War II, probably based on the Mir-Jam series and "Montevideo, God and video," so people think it really was in the old Yugoslavia, and it certainly wasn't, if it was already talking about the authoritarian regime. I'm sorry that the Social Democratic colleagues and other parties on the left somehow don't notice anything, shut up. I guess they think, while we're in power, it's warm, so what do we care who's talking here? Our judiciary is in trouble, that's where we agree. It takes a lot of working together to make it better. Minister, I don't understand why, but to explain your exceptional foundation, why some things don't go a little faster and go more content? Consider this a positive remark. I don't understand why we're waiting for some more important laws, new laws to come to the Assembly? Why are we talking here about some things that are perfectly normal, that could have been put in a package of ten laws, if you will. This way we can solve them much, much faster. I would like to hear from you a certain answer or anything, and that is why I will end up sooner, with a request that we all try to solve together what is happening today in Serbia, and in terms of security at risk, and in terms of the failure of our judiciary, and in terms of the unpreparedness of the prosecutor's sector for the changes that have taken place, and in terms of constant criticism, misunderstanding, and in terms of still having an unresolved situation. I'm still repeating with the presidents of the courts that we don't have a clear situation with party belongings, that we don't have a clear situation with how much intervening in practice is going to be conducted, how many people are really going to use it, how encouraged they will be, how many presidents of the courts will have the opportunity and really unequivocal, independent desire not to favor anyone, how much we'll have the opportunity to create a cartel within people who are dealing with, say, a private enforcer, because a cartel is being created. He's kind of breaking up with the provisions that you're proposing, but I don't understand the part about who's going to get what item. Will someone named Seshun or Seselj get or will someone named Babic always get the same items? That's the first thing. Second, computer. I don't know if anything unfortunately ever worked on computer technology in our justice system. I'd like it to be true and if it's done, and that thing itself is a good and positive step, but, I repeat, we're kind of constantly dealing with that famous cherry at the top of the cake, and we're having a hard time doing cake ourselves in our work. I urge you to move on to what is the foundation of the judiciary and to finally regulate these things in a clearer sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1341	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Insolete.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1342	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really, especially after the break, listened very carefully to the distinguished predecessor. I don't want to offend you, but I have to notice that you've completely mixed up a lot of things. I don't think that was intentional. You talked, among other things, about the order in which the case was assigned to private contractors, and that none of the laws in front of you today were mentioned at all. No single bill treats that. You may have been referring to the provisions of the Amendment Bill and the additions of the law on non-partisan procedure in which it is spoken which order will be entrusted to certain powers of public notebooks in the conduct of the desert procedure, and it is said that it will be done in alphabetical order, and when, for example, the resignation of a public notary refuses to act, or to be entrusted with authority, it will go to the first one, and since there will be an extremely narrow and limited number of public notebooks, then some great possibilities of arbitration in the conduct will not be there. That's what you mixed up. You've mixed up my statement that a complete review of the law on enforcement and security will be made, and you said that this was the case with the Law on Prosecution. So, there are some things I'm really going to really look back on. I believe you didn't do this on purpose, but when it comes to an extremely narrow and intervening amendment to the law on enforcement and security, it doesn't treat at this point an extremely important issue. Thank you for bringing this up. The order of determination, i.e. the way to determine and assign the case to private perpetrators, is one very controversial issue, and there are completely conflicting views of a broad majority and a narrow minority of private perpetrators as to how this issue is resolved and there are different views of us from the Ministry, other people from practice or from profession, but indeed very few, as the people say, mixed pots. Not a single provision of these laws touches the way they assign cases to private perpetrators, which doesn't mean it won't change, but let me start from the beginning. I had to really point this out as something that I didn't understand why you were talking about if it wasn't a topic of the agenda at all or it was quite mixed up. We can always talk about the justification or inexcusability of an emergency procedure. These laws are proposed to the National Assembly by emergency procedure. There are certain excuses that I've been talking about. Of course, I would like more MPs, who were in opposition today, to remember the times when they were in power, so they had to have the same urgency in acting then to defend, and today to attack her. Probably we, when we were in opposition, attacked the urgency of acting, but simply, it is one of the instruments of action of the MPs and it is quite legitimate and can be said in one hand that it is always and justifiable. I won't take you for evil or find myself offended when you call me a certain kind of deviation, but I'll take that as someone who thinks the opposition should always be nurtured, supported, nurtured. I'll keep my mouth shut. I can't agree with you in your conclusion that there is a fear. Fear always, normally, exists, but whoever doesn't risk it doesn't profit. He says that by adopting these regulations, additional and new legal chaos will be created. Of course, the creation of chaos or prosperity depends on us trying to enforce the laws that the National Assembly brings. And also the fact here that there are no laws that have been passed by the National Assembly, I can agree partly, in part, not, because I have tried to explain the proposed laws to some of the solutions that have already been made. I can't understand, although I replicated one of the other opposition colleagues in the first part of today's session, to say that the proposed laws in the field of enforcement of government and non-conductive sanctions, will bring privileged positions to the rich, and make it more difficult for the poor. I'll just remind you, through these laws, the provisions of the law in which your party participated while it was in power are well operationalized. Then how come you didn't talk like that? If we're talking about alternative sanctions, so the system, the creation of an alternative sanctions system, began at the time of the pre-government. I think it's one of the better things the government has done before and I'll never judge her for it. But now you're saying that all of a sudden from the sky it's become something in the ribs that's going to be traded and the judges are adjudicating, deciding, so it's the judge's task. The judge also rules on certain rights and obligations of legal or natural persons in the application of this law. I would advise you and anyone who would possibly believe in saying that the Law on Defence only changes the name, so from the Republic Public Attorney's Office we get the state's attorney's office, and in essence it doesn't change anything, I would advise anyone who's willing to do something like that to sit down and read the law. The law was passed in 1991 without transitional and final provisions and has only 17 members, quite unspoken and members who do not fully define the system. Now that you sit down and read 53 general provisions, without transitional and final provisions, the Law on Defence, you can see how much better the institution of the public defence is defined. It's not a dispute. It could've been an old name. I don't know what you'd blame that law for if it was an old name. If someone was a master for changing the name, it was a mastery in changing the name of courts, instead of municipal – basic, instead of county – higher, instead of the Supreme – Supreme Cassation and then under the company of change of names to treat these courts as completely new and conduct a general choice or re-election of judges and prosecutors. In doing so, I'm not making a difference, one was a period of total well-being, and another was a period of complete hopelessness before or after the war, but in the period of 1945, when a new constitution was passed, it was just one of the things. The names of courts have often been changed, and the choice of judges has been conducted under any change in the name of the court. It's an old, what I'd call a constitutional trick in our practice. I would not agree that the draft law on defence only changes the name of the authority. It's not just the name of the organ that changes. It says so instead of the republican public – the state's attorney's office, but look at everything else as defined, see how the positions of both the defence attorneys and the deputy attorneys and the defence attorneys' assistants are defined, as defined by the defence control system. I have to tell you, in fact, and not formally, until recently, no one, absolutely no one. It is often one of the problems in the functioning of our country, which public authorities do not experience or pass through the control system. Whoever it is, whether whoever's supposed to be in control of the government, whether whoever needs to be controlled by the National Assembly, just recently, let's say, since we've had DRI, someone's started to control someone a little bit more. The inspection services, which are not at our envious level, are why we expect these new and better solutions to the Law on Inspective Control, but the Law on the Defence of certain things essentially sets things differently and starts to measure them. The same thing is also an argument kept about the Law on Intermediation in Dispute Resolution. And here it is said that only the name of mediation has been changed by the term intervening in dispute resolution. That's not true. That's why it was my opening statement, to point out what the key newspapers are in these legal texts. It is precisely in my opening statement that I have cited something that is a big difference compared to the previous Law on Mediation, which is that now, with the fulfillment of certain taxa-listed conditions, which cumulatively, together, all must be realized, a solution that is resolved by means of mediation to carry a clause of execution. So, if we as the two parties that agreed in the dispute that after the intervention, however the solution is to bring an intermediary, it would be executive, with the fulfillment of those specific conditions that I have listed, it would be. Why did the previous concept of mediation fail? It failed because mediation for the main goal is to avoid the conduct of a court dispute. One of the main reasons why a court dispute should be avoided and fulfilled in countries where mediation works well is the fact that mediation is much cheaper than the conduct of a court dispute. Our previous concept of mediation was in some cases incomparably more expensive than the conduct of a court dispute. That's one of the main reasons why it failed. The key to the success of the mediation is to create a basis for predictability in the legal system, when two parties argue over something, about some right, to automatically count, if they go to court, the case will, for example, take four years. In those four years, not only will he lose time, lose and capital, he will lose the opportunity to improve someone's activity or business activity or work. It will be exposed to unnecessary costs in different aspects. If they go to mediation, or mediation, they may be able to solve it in two months. But before that, they really know that the one who has a lawyer with a better relationship will not succeed, but the one whose right is not justified as claimed in the request of the other party will not succeed. Therefore, the draft law on mediation in dispute settlement and the draft law on defences also bring a number of good newspapers, which are recognised as the shortcomings of the existing system in the application of current legal solutions. Why is there such an interventional amendment of the Law on Prosecution? Again, if my opening statement had been heard, you would have seen, because most of the provisions that we have proposed to change the Constitutional Court have been declared unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court said that the attorney in the litigation can't just be a lawyer. Based on the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the Constitutional Court has made such a decision because there is still no system for providing free legal assistance in Serbia. We can argue why we don't go on major shifts. I will remind you, if I am not mistaken, the National Assembly in the same day has also passed the Law on litigation and the Law on execution and security. Such huge changes in the procedural right of one country, you bring in one day, and by taking effect and starting to apply in one day, have brought our courts an incredible chaos, but truly amazing, because such extensive changes have not been followed by good preparation, by systematic introduction of a new law into life. I can agree with you that we may have been able to go on a full change to the law of off-party procedure. I'm even going to say that I'm in a good position to agree with you. I'm going back to what I just said. We've got justice on our glass feet. We have a judiciary where there have been many status problems, someone would say they still exist. The introduction of such cardinal changes would suddenly be what we called creating a new normative chaos. I cite as an extremely positive example, as much as there would be difficulties and obstacles to implementation. Look, we brought here to the National Assembly last fall of the Violation Act. We've systematically introduced him into service. On March 1st, we started to apply it. There is a campaign under way that the International Agency for Co-operation with our Ministry of Justice and the High Council of the judiciary is conducting, which is – respect the law, support the order, which is now promoting the results of the new law. I'm proud of how we've brought this law into life in spite of the many difficulties that have taken place in the system of criminal justice every day, but we have to introduce laws in this way. So, systemically and planically. The question has been asked, citizens are wondering when will the reform of the judiciary be completed? Here, I am giving myself the right to respond to the citizens. As long as the Republic of Serbia is a serious country that seeks to be a well-organised rule of law, judicial reform will never be completed. Only the entrenched and hermetically closed systems never reform. The biggest problem with our judiciary is that in one period of the '90s it was hermetically closed for every kind of change and that hermetical constipation created one bad picture, created a bad climate, created a bad interpersonal relationship. Therefore, the real fundamental reform of the judiciary must never be completed, as a enlightened man learns and educates while he is alive and one state should reform all its institutions as long as it exists. I will just say in one sentence, although I am truly out of respect for the reason Mr. Janko Veselinovic cited as not attending yesterday's session, so I referred to the discussion of the three laws we discussed yesterday. Please take a closer look at the report and listen. Even if it were true that the situation in our prisons was catastrophic, it was five times worse a few years ago. That's when I said, I don't have a problem saying that, is amnesty something great? No, she has her own negative side. Amnesty has in this case fulfilled the purpose of implementation. I don't see, and so does your deputy yesterday, and so do you today when you show the situation to the extreme limits of endurance dramatically because of what happened. I mentioned the example of the New Now. Five years has not filled out the empty systemization in the police, five full years. A new settlement of 60,000 people had no single police officer. Who's to blame for not filling in? You can't say - it was only the minister's fault. No, what a minister, it's of interest to the entire state. Was there then the mayor of Novi Sad, were there then the authorities who urged it to change? Nobody changed anything. We can today say that this law creates technical preconditions that the functioning of the criminal sanctions management system is going to improve. You can always, you'll tell me - I resent that amnesty, the three of them came out over time who were returnees, and I'm going to say - I object to that 2001 amnesty where you let people who were rightly convicted of acts of terrorism, and you let them out because of the pressure that they were political indifferences, and thus they showed that the state of Serbia at that time, who condemned terrorism, began to treat them as political inexperiences and that the reasons for their imprisonment and condemnation were in fact political nature, because their legitimate goal was to detached some part of the state territory, so we didn't like it, like their political action, and then we shut them down, and then someone pushed us to let them go. And you know very well that it was the result of an international pressure at the time, as you know here it was the result of an unprecedented pressure in the very system that broke. Then maybe you needed some mass insurrection in prisons, like we used to? That they take hostage people who work in security services. We were in an unsustainable situation in 2012, only then, here in front of you, I had to shut up about not causing one such situation really in prison. Now I don't have to because you've provided some incorrect information and I'm very willing to deny you. Then we had a capacity of seven and a half thousand people, and there were 11,300 in prisons. Today we have a capacity of 9,300, in prisons we have 10,069 persons. So we've increased the capacity, and we've increased the number of alternative ways of securing, say, the presence of the defendant in case he's talking to a person who might have been in custody three years ago, and today he's in house arrest under electronic supervision. There's one objective difference. I'm not asking, nor do I like being admired and flattered, giving me compliments. I love an argument and a good debate and how much I appreciate it. One of your distinguished colleagues today has indeed shown that in the National Assembly we can have discussions that are very argumentative, very well-founded. These aren't such discussions here rare. How many times have I heard this from your colleague Marjanović yesterday and yesterday, how many times have I heard such a debate in both the previous and this session from Parliament and colleague Olga Batić? Really very well prepared. Why don't some things go faster? Because we can't take any more chances. In 2009, the state thought things could go much faster in the judiciary and we got an elephant that went through a glass shop. There's one metaphor on my side, I hope I don't mind. When we talk about the results of the application of the law, in 2010, new judicial laws began to apply. It would be quite expected that we today, in 2014, have incomparably fewer old cases. Unfortunately, we don't. The percentage of the decrease in old cases is measured by less than 2% and that's an indicator, that's an indicator of one poor condition, but in some courts things started to change. I think that should also be done through the presented, when a report on the work of the Supreme Cassation Court is presented on the board, or let's say the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office that such things are shown. Does the new CAP cause problems in application? Is there a problem with the application? There certainly is. It wasn't to be expected that we had a 10-year preparation that wasn't to expect that there was no problem. See how many plea agreements are being concluded today, see how much access is now being made to delaying prosecution by the public prosecutor and you will see that the new Code of Criminal Procedure has forced them to do so. The second question is how do they, for example, apply a delay in criminal prosecution? I would agree here that from case to case it's very disputable. Why don't we get some of the laws faster? I think I said that exactly in this why some things don't go faster. We need to find a balance between speed and quality. That's something the European Commission's reports, the last ones that came to us, insist on. Find a balance, find a balance between speed and quality. You've touched something that's not the subject of today's debate, which could be, which is the functioning of information and telecommunications technologies in our judiciary, not a single good state. I think that at this point in our judiciary, six or seven different operating systems, which are often unrelated, are the results of different international donations that are tailored to the criteria of other justice systems that we get from our friends abroad, and then three years later, they say -- and now go ahead and pay for the maintenance of that. It often happens that we can't say that we're completely satisfied because even in those systems that our people did, we didn't ask the user of the system. You didn't ask the head of the office, you didn't ask the office employees, you asked the checkers, and then you put on a suit that's either tight or they're too big, instead of setting up to measure the need for the system to function. It can be a particular topic, and I'm sure we'll soon have a special law that will treat this particular type of data processing essential to the functioning of the judiciary, and such a law was last passed, I think, in 1986 or 1987. I apologize for talking for this long, but I think it was necessary, you won't mind me, but the first thing I've turned your attention to, you've mixed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1343	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the tenth session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and for all these years, the decades behind us have been things we should not be very proud to remember, water spilling and shooting shoes, the vote from Bodrum. I hope that we are bringing new quality into democratic dialogue and in mutual respect with each other. When a colleague's speech was heard, I listened carefully and wrote down, that it was something bad that was coming today and being directed towards the minister, imagine even not coming from the advances, is at least a humiliation, and I am proud to be one of the 136 members of the SNS parliamentary group. I'm proud that I'm one of 136 people who's not one gesture, not one word at a time, all of this time we've been through, not one ugly word, not one demeaning word to some who have been great, powerful and powerful in the past, and now they've come to the brink of censorship. We appreciate all the people in Serbia, we also appreciate those people who didn't vote for us or didn't go to elections at all or voted for other political options, which is why, Mr. Chairman, I expect that in the future, whoever is lagging at such disrespect to anyone in this room, any political options, at the very least, would have to be warned. The style figure is a ‘progressive sea’. In these months after the election, some of the more difficult style figures of the tsunami type have been used, which is an elemental disaster. However, those who used the word "chunami" and those who say "progressive sea" must know that both the sea and that tsunami's political scene of Serbia have brought into this room citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and anyone who is against the electoral will of Serbian citizens, he is against his citizens and I don't think he has anything to look for on Serbia's political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1345	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1346	Thirty minutes, Minister, you can't answer everything you said in two minutes, and then there's Mr. Babic. I have to tell you, I'm really sorry, I'm sorry, we've talked about one thing and the other and there's been a lapus and you don't have to blame it, like you shouldn't blame that political deviation. It's no offense, as I don't blame you for raising us. We are not plants, and no one should raise us except the citizens of Serbia. What's the fact, you yourself said, there's a lot of problems in the work of private contractors. That's what I was talking about, and of course I was talking about public notebooks and how certain objects would be assigned. Not to go that way now, I think it's very bad if you as justice minister, no matter what I understand the background, you say -- while the Republic of Serbia is also going to be reforming the judiciary. You know, you have a lot of organized democratic systems in the world that had the last reform a hundred years ago, maybe more, and they work perfectly well. So what you are now announcing to the citizens of Serbia is that by the path of the snail, the "progressive snail" will continue reforming the reform and that our grandchildren will welcome the end of what you are, there is now a problem, announced that you will immediately resolve and you have given great deadlines to the citizens of Serbia. My only question was, why do you not give a term? All of your colleagues gave, and even the minister voted on from Bodrum, whose name is Kori Udovicki and sits in your government. (Zoran Babic, from the place: So what? So what? Then tell her who voted for her from Bodrum. Otherwise, in Novi Sad, I'm finishing up, there was no police chief, there was neither in Nis, Minister, and I don't want to talk about who's guilty, but I want to say that they were placed in both Nis and Novi Sad, but also in Nis and Novi Sad we have a rise in criminal acts, as you know, and absolutely nothing helped, unfortunately, because we have general uncertainty in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1347	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1348	Thank you, Your Honor. Maybe I don't know, maybe I'm not well informed, I don't know which country in Europe whose judiciary hasn't been reformed in the last 100 years. (Borislav Stefanovic: Europe has not been mentioned. ( ) It is very Europe that has been mentioned. So whose justice system hasn't been reformed for 100 years? You have, for example, the justice of a Federal Republic of Germany, in which it came a few years ago, which works perfectly, which has always been a model to us throughout history, which was an example of well-organized justice, in certain federal states to abolish courts in cities that up to 15,000 inhabitants. So, even those in which less than a year has passed from the initial act to the telling of a judicial verdict, even they continue to reform. Of course, I won't take it as evil if I interpret the term "justice reform" as something that our citizens interpret. What is the question for a citizen when will the Serbian judiciary be reformed? Our citizen, when you ask him what reformed justice means, says it's the judiciary I trust, or when the number of those who trust him is greater than those who don't trust him. Unfortunately, the long, long, long years of our judiciary have been trusted by an extremely small number of percentages of Serbian citizens. You'll never find a situation that trusts 100% of citizens, because people, especially when they're arguing about something, both of them think they're right and one of them will always come out of court unsatisfactory. Rarely when it happens they'll both come out, or both happy. When you said, and I have to finish, the tendency to increase general crime. Again, I feel bad that you weren't here earlier when I was talking about something that was very important. Why is there especially in those cases the most common form of everyday street crime. Why are there so many returnees? Well, because the applicable Code of Criminal Procedure in 2011 abolished the security measure, the security measure that's being pronounced according to the defendant, which we suggested to return here yesterday. Why do you have hooligans who go to 10 games in a row and each one gets killed and 10 criminal acts are against him, and he's out there? Because the year 2011 was abolished, this measure we suggested we return, so to speak plainly, if you now have a fan who burns a torch, and then burns a large number of seats on the stands, so he slaps or fights with someone, acts violently, then gets arrested, then criminal charges are filed against him, then the indictment takes place, so the court case, and he goes to the other game, then to the fifth, then to the 10th, and repeats on every second, third, fourth of his behavior. Today, the judge can give him a restraining order. Not today, but from the moment the proposed law begins to apply here, if adopted, and I am convinced that we will adopt this convincing majority, whether it's the MPs or the opposition. Now that the judge gives him that measure, and he goes to the game again and tries to make a mess, and if he's legalized by a cop in a place where he can't be because he's got a court order to stay in that place, he can go into custody right now. We've fixed one more thing, and I don't know if you noticed it at the last game derby, which is that the criminal judges are going to the biggest stadiums and how the police are bringing someone in so they can proceed immediately by an emergency procedure to judge him and send him without delay on the basis of an appeal for a prison sentence, which has already started to take effect. You know, if someone to this extent is disturbed or sick to take someone and kill someone in broad daylight, then it's about the mental state of that person, and the mental state of that person can be, but it's not necessary, because of the functioning of only the court or only the prosecution or the police. It was the result of films that this man looked at as a child, looked at on TV, so he was full of different scenes, consequences and behaviors of his family, the consequence of his stay at school and the lack of the results of his education and many other things, the society in which he moved. Maybe not with those effects as big as we wanted, but in search, confiscation and arrest actions of people who deal with unauthorized production and drug trafficking, we've made significant shifts compared to the previous period. I'm saying, maybe not with those effects because we have big problems in the system. That's because the system's been decade, maybe more, abandoned. In certain areas, some shifts are already visible. In certain areas, they will be visible in a more foreseeable time. You mentioned something earlier, I didn't replicate it, but here's a sentence. You said the President of the Court. I believe you've been informed that the VSS has proposed candidates for the presidents of the National Assembly. I think that's good. I think it's good for Serbia to get its presidents in court after more than five years because it's V.D. The state of courts is doing something against the judiciary itself. I believe it will contribute to many significant measures. One of these measures is a program for solving old cases. In the pilot projects we've implemented in some courts, he's given excellent results. The number of old objects has been reduced by over 60%, and in this emerging case, the inflow of new objects did not exist. Why? Because those courts had a good organization of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1349	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1350	I was very careful when I spoke of responsibility. I was careful, and I didn't mention any political option, no political party because unfortunately, in the past, there are no innocents, as I believe the job of all of us, was in power or in opposition, to work to raise the reputation of the National Assembly of the RS. Indicative that my colleague was called when I mentioned the Bodrum vote, transferring responsibility to someone else, to someone whose responsibility was not because in those bad days per parliament, in a bad day for our country, it was almost interparliamentary. Goran Novakovic from Thessaloniki, Neda Arneric from Bodrum. We know that some people also had a court epilogue of such a vote and no longer deal with politics like Mr. Allen Selimovic, and that some, like the then head of the parliamentary group, who may have had the most responsible political career. I think again, it is the job of all of us to work to raise the reputation of the National Assembly not because of us, but because of the institution, the state, the highest legislative body in the state of Serbia, and therefore the ears of the bad word, the false word and the non-response of responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1351	Mr. Stefanovic, you'll be entitled to a replica. But I'm distracting you that in your presentation, you've caused replicas, too, so that you don't challenge another circle of replicas again, because then I'm going to have to give someone another right to the replica, so you won't be able to answer it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1352	I love it when you say it that way, like it hurts less. Mr. Minister, it's not just the fans' problem. They are a big problem, and yesterday we supported the provision, so there's no confusion. Remember? We spoke very affirmatively of her with regrets that she had not been brought before. It's a little interesting to me because you sound like me when I was a law school student, so when I know one question best, then I go live into it and talk about it every detail, hoping the other two won't hook me up. Of course, no results because those two always come in line. As far as this is concerned, I wasn't talking, sir, who you were just saying, from the SNS about transferring responsibility. I didn't mention any responsibility. I didn't mention who did it. I just taught you not to criticize Mrs. Kori Udovicki, who is your minister in the government and who, I see, is always late for work. Drive the kids. You're playing over your tabloids. You attack a woman, and then she's elected governor of Bodrum, as you say. Don't ask her and me but ask Mr. Vesic, Mr. Selimovic, who now works for you, the whole team that is now very close to your party. I don't know why you're asking us this now. I didn't say who was responsible, let the courts determine it. In that sense, I agree. I'm done. There really wasn't any hard words, nor was there anyone offended here. You seem to me, a little bit like Mr. Vukic, the Prime Minister, to see constantly some daggers and enemies where they are not present. You have an aikido with an imaginary enemy, an opponent. The problem is that citizens are living harder and you don't have any answers, so what else are you going to do, but in the past, yellow, thieves and things like that that are really more, I think, nobody is interested. I think we really tried to talk here and we focused on what's wrong, which we don't think is good, but we commended absolutely everything that was good in this law. My colleague Martinovic's name is. I think it was a very contentious debate, so there was really no problem. In the end, of course, that has to be it. You have seas that have a high degree of salinity, so they dry quickly. Then there's another name, but I won't use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1353	I thank Mr. Bork Stefanovic. I don't want anyone in this National Assembly to hurt, whether much or little. I just said that so we wouldn't start a circle of replicas again now, in terms of who it is and whose name it is, when and how it works. I was just saying that so we could get on with our regular work as soon as possible. Switching to the list of reported participants in the discussion. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1354	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is evident that the SPS parliamentary group does not keep silent, as we have been honored by DS representatives, because we have not kept silent in this session, nor in the previous session, which is at least the Ministry of Justice, and how well known, the team before we were warmly involved in correcting everything that was wrong through judicial reform, starting in 2010, and even earlier here. The reminders work, the SPS reform of the judiciary implies a continuous process, a process that will never stop. Because no matter how good the courts are, they can always be better and they have to be better. This, at least from the SPS parliamentary group, will persist, and we will always keep up with our coalition partner, whose strength we respect and respect, regardless of the tsunamis we have endured, always respect and fight for those principles that are principles and in our programme. Let's go back to what's on the subject now. First of all, today when I spoke as an authorised representative about the bill's proposals and pointed to something that may have been incomprehensible to me in one way, when I was talking about the Law on Defence, I now want to very precisely determine what the SAA feels is necessary. It's an extremely well-intentioned suggestion. The suggestion concerns the possible adoption of sublegal acts that will help to regulate the way local defences are organised and built, primarily municipal and cityal. Why? Simply because it is in the proposed text of the law. 51, 53 and 61 have already been defined that local defences must comply with this bill, which will undoubtedly be adopted. However, on the other hand, the same text of the law states that these are special conditions for the selection of defence attorneys and deputy attorneys. These conditions are quite restrictive, with quite high demands. Let's just say that this is necessary for the Attorney General, first of all from the point of view of work experience, for 10 years, and eight years for the Deputy Attorney General, that's not disputed and that's the way it should be. Why? Because such a function requires an extremely high professional reference, as it is an extremely delicate business, an extremely responsible business, which is to protect the interests of the state of the Republic of Serbia. If that is the case, then the same principle must also apply to local defences who, with little less responsibility, must protect the interests of local self-government, or local communities. In this regard, we should define at least these criteria in order not to leave local self-government to have a broad disposition and to create an unequal principle in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and under what conditions to choose lawyers, deputy defenders, defence assistants and trainees. Of course, in that direction, the Department of Justice will surely deal with it and I hope that such a well-intentioned suggestion will be accepted. As far as the provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure are concerned, today we have kind of crossed over one extremely good change, a quality change of law compared to the existing law. It is an emergency legal remedy, which is a request to repeat the procedure and for the first time, this legal remedy also appears in the judiciary before the Supreme Cassation Court. Citizens should know that in this way they achieve a far greater degree of judicial protection, a far greater degree of legal certainty, by the very fact that the highest judicial institution, the Supreme Court of Cassation, is now subject to reviewing its work through decisions. How? It is precisely through a request for a repeat procedure filed through a first-degree court, but the Supreme Court of Cassation, if it has challenged its decision and by acting in the course of decision-making, that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia can now exercise the right to do so. The only thing that seems to me might be to consider whether, in that situation, whoever applied for a retrial, in the event that it was rejected or rejected, has the right to appeal, an appeal to the greater court that made such a decision. In the end, what has been going through this whole debate today is like some kind of skepticism by opposition parties, skeptics according to how and how mediation is going to take place, that is, what was previously called, mediation. Simply by encouraging citizens to resort to far, far less funds, with far less expenditure, with far cheaper means of resolving court disputes and court issues, rather than huge costs, which will bear their burden in court proceedings. In this direction, through our colleague Susana Spasojevic, the SPS has already tabled an amendment that could be the subject and reason for the analysis and assessment of acceptability, so that those categories of people who need to be released from the burden of unnecessary costs would indeed be released. In this direction, intermediaries, i.e. those who are obliged to put parties in a position of agreement, respecting their autonomy of will, do so in one way that includes both intermediation skills or high expertise and ability. I have no doubt that it is through this law that intermediaries will also have a great incentive to deal with it, to relax the courts, to release a large number of cases and thus help efficiency in the work of the courts, and to enable citizens in the easiest, simplest and fastest way to come, both to justice and to the peaceful resolution of disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1355	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1356	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly, Mr Selakovic, you are the most common guest of the National Assembly compared to all the ministers in this Serbian government. So far, you've defended several bill proposals. This means that we already have one experience discussing the draft laws that came from the Serbian government. My expectation was that it would already create a kind of predictability. However, your performances escape every type of classification. First of all, you were defending a law here that we estimated to be unconstitutional, we voted against. Then your colleague, Minister Udovici, defended yesterday a bill that you have prepared, and we have assessed this bill as very good and asked Mrs. Udovici to convey her commendation and congratulations. Today, we are discussing again the bill's proposals, in this case five, for which we have again great objections. I mean quite serious, significant objections. So it's some terrible amplitudes. I don't think it's a good area for a minister. To comment on these five draft laws, I prepared four points. I think I've placed in those four points a good way a strong criticism of these draft laws. Point one, as far as something was concerned, but I don't think your defense of that remark was appropriate. This applies to the adoption of an emergency procedure law. I do not agree that the adoption of the law by emergency procedure is something that needs to become a standard, which is legitimate in any case, as you said. I think it's supposed to be an exception, but all the bills the government sent, which you defended here, were all adopted by emergency procedure. I don't think that's a good thing, especially if we follow the logic of some of these laws. Effectiveness, e.g. The draft law on dispute settlement is provided for within a regular period and the start of application is delayed by more than six months. We tried to follow a kind of logic here, see if there were really some reasons that there should be two different deadlines. However, since it is a procedural and not organisational law, any suggestion that it takes time from the entry into force until the start of application, in order to prepare for application, is not justified in our understanding. So we believe that this argument of law-making by emergency procedure in the case of these five draft laws does not stand. The second point, in my understanding of the public debate on these bill proposals, Mr Selakovic, was fixed. The debate existed on the Internet or, let me say, in short-term meetings with a small number of people. Here I must return to your approach which you have applied in the preparation of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. Public debates were organised, you participated in them. The idea was terrible to contribute to, and in this case, this bill, it was missing. I wonder why? I don't think it's a good thing there's a public debate in the conditions when it's fixed. Third point, we think these bill proposals contain insufficiently precise formulations, or at least incomplete. For example, the draft law on defence, Article 2(1) says – the defence body is the body that performs the tasks of legal protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province, or the units of local self-government. Such a formulation, based on language interpretation, means that the Ombudsman only takes legal protection of those rights and interests. So his role is limited to certain proceedings, judicial or administrative, because then he shows the need for legal protection Is such an interpretation correct? I think it confirms the content of the members of this bill from 11 to 13. If it stays on the idea that the D.A. should serve only legal protection, then it's too expensive and I mean a non-rational institution. We had some suggestions here that we wanted to suggest, but at point 4, I want to tell you, we can't vote to adopt these four laws. When it comes to this law on defence, we have submitted three amendments to this proposal and based on your position on our amendments in the voting day, we will judge whether or not we should vote in favour of this bill. If she adopts it the way it is now, we'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1357	Thank you. The word has been authorised by a proposing representative, Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1358	I thank you, Your Honors Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will look back at those points that I have not explained before, or have not explained them in such a way, without entering the first complaint regarding the urgency of action. I think I talked about it a few times, even when my predecessor wasn't here, I talked about it in more detail. There are a few things I can't possibly agree with. The first thing, if you claim that the public hearings were falsified, I can make a much more thorough claim that you were not informed, and you could have informed yourself. When it comes to public debates on the comprehensive draft laws that are here today before you, therefore, on the Law on Defence and on the Law on Dispute Intervention, I am very responsible for saying that well-organised discussions have been held in the seat of each Court of Appeal, as I will say in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis and Belgrade. That the public debates were attended, i.e. the majority of invited persons, invited not only physically but also by their profession and by their own interest and by their professional invitation, to attend and take part in these public debates. That such a public debate was conducted under a public debate programme established by the Committee on the Legal System and the state bodies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has been authorised to do so. That these public debates lasted at least thirty days, but apparently you weren't well informed about it and that it wasn't even falsified at all. And if you will, thank you for the compliments you've made on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Minorities Councils, but right away, this law, unlike these, has experienced only two round tables, and these have experienced twice as much, minimum. Which means you obviously didn't have that information and I don't blame you, but don't qualify for something you didn't know enough about. As far as the Law on the Prosecution Procedure, let's say, the Working Group, which was formed in December 2012 and which made these amendments and additions, has made the proposals much more extensively which affected a Corps of more than 80 members, if I'm not mistaken. Due to the caution that such major changes could suddenly bring chaos without adequate application, we have reduced them to the most necessary round, but you can imagine since December 2012 how many times these members have been questioned both by members of the Working Group and at the round tables themselves in public debates. So I can't support what you said. When it comes to the laws on which yesterday's debate was conducted in principle, it is about laws that have been through two rounds of public debate. There's something else I have to tell you that I'm completely proud of, so what is the methodology in our work when we bring in more extensive changes or additions to some law or a whole new law. The workgroup defines the text. That text flows into the draft law. The draft law refers to a public hearing that lasts 30 days minimum. A round of public debates is held most often, as I said, in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. When the round of public debates is passed, and the draft has been sent to the European Commission, let's wait for the opinion of the European Commission. When it comes to us, we align the text of the draft with the opinion of the European Commission and most often re-engage an additional public debate. I think you've been completely on thin ice here, because you've hit on whoever's doing it from the start, or you've been trying to do what you've done to show a complete difference to their predecessors. When I say predecessors, I mean fellow ministers in general, because most of the time there's a tendency just to put the law in the process and adopt it. So these suggestions that are before you today have experienced severe triage, both theories and practices. I don't think you're right when you're trying to blame them. At this point, I could've really been on the Internet, before I took a word to see when these discussions were actually held, so I could give you the information, or I could give you the adopted program and its realisation by the Committee on the Legal System and the State Authorities, but here you're really wrong when you said that. Lastly, without wanting to downplay something, but when you criticized the definition of public defendership, I don't know what public defendership should be about, not certainly the physical protection of someone. It deals with the protection of rights, property and legal interests, i.e. property rights of the state, units of local self-government, autonomous province. What else does he do? Maybe I'm not here to fully understand, please explain it to me, but please be correct, if you need information, I'll deliver it to you. You can ask around, too. Therefore, public debates were held in all four appeals courts, and they were attended by the deputies of the Republic Public Prosecutor, by public defenders from the local and regional level, one extremely broad public debate unlike, for example, I will immediately give you a counter argument, unlike the draft law on defence which I found as a minister who took office on July 27, 2012 which I do not know at all that the public debate is being conducted. It's one draft of the legal text that I found, which in some ways differs significantly from what was proposed here, but if no public debate was held here, contrary to that and how it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1359	Right on line, MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1360	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I'm glad you responded very precisely to the objections that exist here. Now I have three things that matter to me again, and I think I'm right. First of all, I don't think it's appropriate for the two of us, and you keep reminding me here what some previous authorities or authorities were wrong until 2012, and then, based on comparisons with those authorities, it's still better now than it was. We, here I was criticizing when there was room for criticism and all that concerned the authorities, including in the judiciary and in relation to the government that existed until 2012. I don't think that's right. The other thing, I also think that our function here is control, we have the right to ask you, to check it, and I think it's wrong for you to tell the MPs - you were certainly not informed. I think I'm a relatively well-informed man here. I'm interested in the bill's proposals, I'm trying to read and explain, and I think that these discussions that existed were not in many cases of real public debate, which seemed to me like professional debates, which is why I called them, they're fine, but they're convenient with a small number of people. I felt that public participation should be ensured in the broadest sense, especially as regards us MPs who may not have been informed at some point that the bill had already entered the procedure in the previous assembly assembly. The third thing I end up with, when it comes to the Attorney General's Office of Article 2, our opinion was that this text in Article 2 meant that jurisdiction and defence should be extended particularly to the Government's advice when completing the business and other civil-legal affairs of a substance right, for example, to participate in the completion of these transactions, and to represent them on the basis of the government's authority. Then, in my court, there would be a strong justification for the state's attorney's office so defined. Thank you so much for your patience and your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1361	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1362	It's extremely short. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the desire to really touch this subject you last mentioned in the debate, I will once again express my dissension with what you said in the public debates. If you had asked me and asked me how many public debates were held, in what time period, how many persons participated, I would have been happy to answer to you, but you said that the public debates were falsified. You automatically typed one thing as a judgmental, falsified public debate. Allow me, but this is also a public debate and this is the widest public debate that Serbian citizens are following. And one who is interested and one who is not interested. We send a public call when we go to a city in Serbia where a roundtable is held in the form of a public debate. Do you think everyone is absolutely interested in what are the solutions to the Law of Defence? Do you know how much the National Assembly has brought and how much they're going to pass the law in science, in 90% of the cases, and I've been doing science, you're doing science, and you know very well that this extremely narrow circle of people in Serbia interests that. You can't say and I'm still standing by it, you can say, but it's not correct to say, the public hearing is fixed. The public debate would have been fixed if no one had been invited except for circles similar to those that would nod their heads, no way. It has often happened, we suggest a solution, it comes across the absolute non-acceptance of public debate participants and we correct it, because our goal is to pass as high-quality law as possible and that this law is applicable and that it takes a long time. So it's simply incorrect to say, the public debate was fixed, because it's not, absolutely not. See how many laws were passed in the Republic of Serbia, in a long series of previous years, that they did not have a real public debate. The public debate is when an insinuator writes a column or article about this, when he points out through a good content text with something that disagrees with this proposal and it is a public debate, and that is what people have done in certain laws that we have proposed to the Government and the Government of the Assembly. These laws, which are before you, I mean extensive changes and additions or comprehensive laws, in this case in the first place of four laws, which are about the execution of criminal sanctions, the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and the measures we discussed yesterday, and in this case, the Law on Defence and the Law on Intervention in Disputing Disputes, were absolutely passed through public debates. In these two laws, intervening in dispute settlement and defence law, over 300 people participated in the debates. I have to compare myself with some of these things that were before me, because it would be like having a child to whom you tell - you don't care who your father and mother are and you don't care who your children are tomorrow. There's something called the continuity of institutions. I am, as a man at the head of a state institution, trying to improve her work in relation to the former work of that institution, without any political background in that story, purely functional. What's better about the ministry and what's worse? What's better about government work and what's worse about government work? So, in the work of this government and the work of this ministry, it's better that no fine public debates are being held, because maybe they were once conducted and became and are not being conducted here. I'm gonna tell you right now, we might be having a funeral, but I don't want any public debates like that to be held. I just don't want to. Three hundred people are smarter than one man. All people know everything, says one saying. So consult as many of us as possible. Ask around, you weren't an MP in the previous assembly. It has often occurred in a debate in detail, even at a session in the tide, that I accept the amendment proposed by my opposition colleagues, even when it was rejected by the committee of directors. And that's what happened. With the power of argument, people reassure me of that attitude, or belief in another attitude, and it is accepted. If it fits the system of the law, it goes away. But again, it's incorrect to say that there have been financial public debates, because they haven't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1363	The word is a folk letter from Biljana Pantic Pilja, and let the folk's message of Suzanne Spasojevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1364	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Serbian Progressive Party will vote for this set of amendments and additions to the law. I will refer only to the three amendments contained in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Procedure. I don't share the laws in less important and more important, but I do believe that the Law on Prosecution is one of the most important laws that really deals with procedural law. The amendment of article 193 which had the obligation to submit a proposal for a peaceful solution to the dispute if the Republic of Serbia is sued, I think it is a good thing that this is no longer an obligation because time has been wasted in filing an action. In one 10 examples, if a proposal for a peaceful solution to the dispute was submitted, perhaps only one was answered by the Attorney General. So they didn't even respond, not accept a proposal for a peaceful solution to the dispute. For example, if a lawsuit against a municipality or city is to be filed where a dog bites the dog, for example, for compensation, it is lost for 60 days to submit a motion for a peaceful solution to the dispute, they do not respond, the action is filed, and the court case could end in those two months, for those 60 days, because two hearings are sufficient to end such a procedure. Also, as for the rejection of the suit, which is every prosecutor's nightmare, or power of attorney, I think it's a good thing that it's now being introduced that there's a hearing at which the prosecutor will plead on the lawsuit he filed. I especially think it's a good thing if the suit was filed by a person who doesn't have a lawyer and if one of the reasons is to drop the suit if the lawsuit is incomprehensible, because there's a possibility of explaining to the judge why it happened, the judge told him not to throw it away. In most cases, the prosecutor who filed the lawsuit alone, has no opportunity to pay the lawyer, will have to pay the tax and drop the lawsuit, so I think this solution is extremely good. The third solution I particularly consider to be a good censorship for the revision, which has already been discussed by my colleagues. I think that this is the best change specifically in this bill, especially given the social opportunity of citizens in Serbia, that there are very few court disputes where the value of the dispute is 100,000 euros, or 300,000 euros, and also a provision relating to the second-degree court being able to change the verdict. We had a situation in which the first-degree procedure ruled to pass the suit and the appeal, to declare the complaint to the defendant and that the second-degree court, given the well-determined factual situation, would alter such a decision and make a decision to refuse the suit and appeal. In this way, the prosecutor was denied the right to appeal. He didn't have any chance of making a legal drug. In this way, the prosecutor who lost the dispute or the defendant will also be able, depending on which party is in the dispute, to state the complaint, so I really think that the review census is one of the best solutions in these amendments and additions to the Law on the litigation process. I also hope that soon, I think that the Minister has said, we will have more comprehensive amendments to the Law on Procedural Procedure and the Law on Implementation and Security, because it is normal to adopt the law, to start applying it, and then to see what the wrong provisions are, or provisions that create problems in law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1365	The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1366	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, today, I will look only at the draft law on dispute settlement, not because I think that, as counterpart Biljana said, the other laws are less important today, but because I think that today is the least said about this law that is very important for Serbia in the future. Given that the existing Mediation Act has not produced the expected results, it is necessary to pass a new law that would regulate this area, in order for citizens to have the opportunity to settle their disputes in a peaceful manner, through agreement and agreement. Intermediation for its importance deserves a second chance, because citizens deserve the chance to respect the law, to make the availability of justice both faster and easier and cheaper, so that, most importantly, justice can be disbursed. I remind you, by dissipating the judiciary, by increasing the number of cases dealt with peacefully and by resolving the cases left behind are one of the priorities of the new justice reform strategy. In Serbia, the judiciary is covered with unresolved cases, the economy has slowed down in progress due to unresolved court disputes, so that the bill can certainly be defined as a law that will contribute to the efficiency of the judiciary, the trial within a reasonable period and a reduction in the number of cases. On the other hand, the very important positive effect of this bill is the incentive of the economy, because the parties will be able, as soon as possible, to find a way to conclude the agreement, through peaceful means, to resolve their disputes and to conclude an agreement that, under the proposal of this law, will have the power of the executive document, which is, in fact, the biggest newspaper of this law. Also, the paper of this law is that the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration will be an authority that will determine the amount of tariff for the compensation of intermediaries, and since we know that one of the biggest objections to those who have used the services of former mediators, and now the mediator, was just the amount of compensation. I expect that the Ministry will take into account the current and economic and financial situation of our citizens and these tariffs at least at first, and if we want this alternative form of dispute resolution to be brought to life in Serbia, because we know what experience in countries that have been applying even mandatory mediation for several years or decades before court proceedings. We have an example of America where 90% of cases are solved peacefully. Otherwise, if that were not the case, the legal system in America would have collapsed or, for example, the UK, where 65% of cases are resolved peacefully or Canada that introduced mandatory mediation back in 1993, in which the situation was similar to ours until then. There were a large number of pending cases, and now even 95% of disputes are resolved precisely by mediating, or peaceful means. The experiences of these countries tell us that intervening, i.e. peaceful dispute resolution in order to achieve its purpose should be one simple, quick, efficient and cheap way of resolving disputes in all areas, although the assumption that they will be used most in the areas of property, family, work or business disputes. One of the objections to the still in force of the Mediation Act, presented by citizens or users of these services or potential users, was the question – who can be a mediator and in what way and does Serbia have enough professional staff to carry out this action? This bill, which today is before us, clearly defines the conditions and ways in which a natural person can be a mediator. A high-level expert prepares that a citizen of the Republic of Serbia is in a business capacity to have a license, to be registered in a register of intermediaries. He can be a lawyer, a judge, but he does that after hours. The regulation of high school preparation is that the mediator must adhere to the ethical code, to form a commission that will assess work and, in the case of non-professional work, withdraw the license will certainly affect the work of intermediaries on a higher, better-quality level, as well as that citizens have more trust than they have so far in this manner of dispute resolution. Intermediates are neither envoys nor psychologists, nor detectives. Dispute-solving intermediaries have an obligation to facilitate user-to-user communication and reach a settlement through negotiation. The best mediation is what protects both the content and the community, which Kofi Annan said in time – to be a good mediator you have to listen well, you have to listen not only to what is said, but also to what is not, which is often much more important than what they say. In Article 13 of the proposal for this law, which refers to the principle of confidentiality, I fear that such a solution is a possible abuse, because experience from some other countries that have previously introduced a commitment to peaceful mediation in the peaceful settlement of disputes proves that parties which may, in essence, have no intention of reaching a peaceful agreement can abuse this way of resolving disputes as a means of preventing the examination of those facts that may be bad for them in the court proceedings. The possible way out of this situation is to exclude from confidentiality those facts that were known to the parties before the intervention. Also, in Article 29 relating to the costs of intervention, my colleague Nedjo Jovanovic said, it may be necessary to add an attitude that applies to parties using social protection services having the possibility of not paying the costs. The parliamentary group has also submitted an amendment to this. In essence, the most important thing is that this law contributes to both citizens and businesses and judges accepting mediation as an alternative to court proceedings and that this alternative way of resolving disputes is being dealt with as much as possible, because unfortunately in Serbia, since the adoption of the Mediation Act very little has applied this law, and in the world more than 70% of cases have been resolved in exactly this way. We know that this cannot be achieved quickly or overnight, but it is therefore important to overcome all the problems of informing citizens about the benefits of resolving disputes peacefully. Intermediation, i.e. resolving disputes peacefully, is a powerful mechanism for promoting tolerance, cultural and peaceful dispute resolution. The parliamentary group will support both this and all other draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1367	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1368	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, my respect and a good day to all. This is the first time I've spoken in this honorary home. I come from Belgrade, from the municipality of Chukarica. I would like to give this opportunity the shortest time to stress once again all the good points of the proposed solutions that make me think that the whole set of laws that we are discussing today deserves to be adopted. The draft law amending the law on enforcement and security proposes measures that lead to compliance with the situation that is realistically present in practice, on the ground, which is undeniably good for every law. The draft law on defences removes all practical shortcomings that were present and in the previous law that regulated this area, but also significantly improves the protection of rights and interests both the Republic and the units of local self-government. The draft Law on Intermediation in Dispute Resolution sets out to bring international standards into line, bringing new and significant quality into place. It is true that a new term “mediation” is introduced instead of the term “mediation”. However, I believe that the introduction of a term that is in the best spirit of Serbian language is only a matter of praise. There are no objections that this is the only change, because among other things it introduces and controls the quality of the work done, which is also significant. The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure proposes measures that result in an increase in efficiency both in the process and in the further adoption of international standards, therefore, by restoring new quality, as well as in harmonising with the Constitution, which removes significant shortcomings from the previous solution. Finally, in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Extraparnical Procedure, with the consent of the Constitution, with many other laws, but also with adopted standards, or conventions, proposed measures of water, and towards increasing the efficiency and reduction of legal deadlines. All in all, taking the proposed measures that we are considering today, we are getting three new qualities – we respect the best possible domestic and international standards under one; under two, we adopt lessons from practice and under three, we achieve greater efficiency, we promote the work of important bodies dealing with serious affairs, all at no extra cost, so that when we draw the line, the thing is clear as a day, colloquially speaking, there is no need to spend your time additionally with new explanations. Until now, it gives a good reason to recommend that we accept all the above-mentioned laws in the Voting Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1369	The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1370	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is too much to talk about the urgency and necessity of adopting proposed laws on amendments and amendments, but I would refer to the Law on Out-of-pard Procedure, more specifically to the draft law on non-pardish procedure. In view of the fact that the law has been adopted and that it benefits and applies since the far-reaching 1983, it is too much to talk about the necessity, since the system has changed, that the root changes have been made since the disintegration of the former state union, it is necessary that this law be brought into line with the applicable Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with individual solutions from other applicable laws, the Health Protection Act, Family Law, the Law on the Parietal Procedure, the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disruptions, and that the termological harmonisation of the Law on the non-partisan procedure with these laws, as well as the ratified conventions are carried out. Since I am a specialist psychiatrist by profession, I would like to pay special attention to the members of the law from 31st to 44th on a non-parnical procedure that regulates special extra-parnical procedures for the regulation of personal condition. Certain changes have been made in the process of deprivement of business ability. The issue of business skills has great importance from the aspect of respect for human rights and the overall social position of the persons to whom the procedure is being conducted. This so-called. the social model of access to persons with disabilities, which respects all the specificities of one person and observes it not only through disability, promotes the removal of barriers so that persons with disabilities can exercise all rights equally with other members of society. The aim of the amendment of this law is to amend the rules for the depriving of the business capacity, so that the person fully or partly deprived of his or her own opinion in accordance with his or her own mental capacity, that the procedure respects the dignity, privacy and rights of the person to whom the procedure is being conducted, that the procedure takes into account that there are different degrees of incompetence that can be changed over time, that the procedure for reviewing the degree of depravated business ability and the procedure for restoring the business ability before the time of verification has expired, provided that there are no longer reasons why the person is deprived of his or her professional capacity. By introducing a periodic review of the court's decision, the law is in line with the recommendation of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, which provides that the restriction should be time-limited with periodic review. All of this contributes to better protection of the interests of these persons, as well as control of custody authorities. I think it is very important that we accept the proposed amendments and additions to the law on extraparnical procedure, because this would allow for better treatment and protection of these persons. In voting day, I will support this proposal from the government, as I propose to the other MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1371	The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Giric, and let Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1372	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us a set of judicial laws. I'm not from the legal profession, but I'll comment on the Law on litigation. We are aware of the fact that Serbia's courts are buried in a number of cases and that the unequivocal length of individual litigations has been prolonged for years, even decades, and there are cases where litigation is passed down from generation to generation without indication when they could be completed. It is indisputable that our people and how they like to be tried and litigated and that they prefer to waste their time and spend their money in court for years, rather than deal with existing problems. All of this, but also many things that are not mentioned, led to the situation in which we are present today, which is that the judges are buried with numerous cases, in fact the individual judge is in charge of hundreds of cases, that there are a large number of pending cases, and especially last decade, that litigation procedures take so long that the costs of the proceedings are very often exceeded the amount of basic claims, that during the course of the proceedings, more or more individuals are changed, and the procedure starts over and after several years, which means that, in the existence of such a judiciary burdened with a number of inherited deficiencies, citizens are increasingly addressing both the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court or justice in Strasbourg. The practice of the Constitutional Court shows that during 2012, and you will correct me if I do not have good information, 2.587 decisions have been made, of which 2,112 cases have been found in violation of the Constitution of guaranteed rights, where the violation of the right to trial dominates within a reasonable period, and the number of performances referred to in Strasbourg does not need to be discussed, because they exceed all normal expectations. In view of all of the above, the new bill aims to improve those parts of existing legislation that have been shown to be insufficiently effective, in addition to the preservation of acquired standards, which have proved to be correct. The objectives that the new law needs to achieve are exactly seen in the need to advance the work of courts, not in any way, but through the process of faster dispute resolution, both those that are being initiated now and a number of backlogs from the previous period. The new technical solutions envisioning this bill limit to a sufficient extent the possibility of abuse of procedural powers by litigation parties and the time frames route the way to end the litigation process within a reasonable period of time. However, not only will law enforcement, or this new law, solve all problems related to our judiciary. In parallel with the implementation of new legal solutions, the permanent education of judges and judicial assistants is necessary, but also the adoption of new laws in other areas that will reduce, rather than increase the need for litigation. When I say that, I mean a number of property disputes that wouldn't exist at all if citizens were to apply the right of property in the event of the acquisition of property inherited, the conclusion of the purchase and the gift contract, life support and so on. If we want to avoid a situation where every third litigator in Serbia is going to justice in Strasbourg, it is necessary that, apart from procedural legislation, regulation and material law, because it cannot be our goal of short-term litigation, but to avoid their creation in the greatest extent possible. In the end, Mr. Minister, we accept your call and in voting day the SNS will vote for this set of judicial laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1373	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1374	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, in my presentation, Mr Minister, I must congratulate you on your responsibility and courage to do everything to improve the legal order of the Serbian state, in order to improve the legal security of Serbian citizens and to improve the work of legal institutions. This is not just a phrase, but during my presentation it will be quite clear to you what the reasons are and why I listed this in the initial part of the presentation. I will focus on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extraparnical Procedure and on part of the law concerning the lack of business ability and return of business ability, that is, part of the law relating to the protection of the most vulnerable social groups, which are mainly persons who in one period of their life have some mental or health difficulties, also, except for these persons, on the protection of children when it comes to parental law extension procedures. Namely, this law was passed three decades ago. Since then, no changes in this part of the law have been changed, and life has been going on and reality is very different today. What is it I especially want to point out? I would like to point out that the question of business ability is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution. I would also like to point out that these amendments and amendments to the law are in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee, but certainly with real life. What does that mean? People with disabilities are people who can take care of themselves on their own. If a social approach is applied, it means that in everyday life people with disabilities face a series of difficulties that they cannot resolve on their own. As a result of this social concept, it is the state that must provide support and assistance to these people, so that they have a completely equal standing with other citizens in the exercise of their rights. As far as the amendments to these legal provisions are concerned, first of all, I would go from this, when it comes to deprivement of business ability, the court may initiate proceedings, but of course the custody authority, the spouse, the extramarital partner, the child and the parent of the person against whom the proceedings are being conducted can be initiated. Also, among the persons who may be authorised to launch this procedure are all other persons living in a joint household with a person to whom the procedure is conducted, and these can be grandfathers, grandparents, grandchildren, etc. What I would also particularly like to point out is the court's obligation to respect the opinion of the person under whom the procedure for deprivement of the business capacity to the extent to which his mental health is preserved. Unlike the previous law, which has regulated that the court may, as a rule and in a health care institution, take an opinion from the person to whom the proceedings are being conducted, this provision states that the court must also go to a medical institution and hold a hearing there to take an opinion from the person to whom the proceedings are being conducted. Also, the law is very clear when it comes to partial depravation of business ability. In fact, the law requires the court to determine, on the basis of the findings of the expert, the circle and part of the business that the person can carry out in part. Also, this procedure also gives the court the possibility that the person to whom the procedure for deprivement of his or her professional ability is conducted, and on a proposal from the doctor, he may set a measure of reference to a medical institution but no longer than 30 days to determine his mental health. What's a special quality of this law is that a person, regardless of the degree of mental health, can file a complaint. These procedures are particularly urgent. The appeal is filed within eight days, and the second-degree authority, the court must decide within eight days. What is it that this law wants to modify? It is, first of all, respect for the opinion of the person and according to his mental capacities according to which the procedure is being conducted. So, respecting the opinion of the person to whom the procedure for deprivement of business ability is being conducted. Another important news is that the process of deprivement of business ability is limited to three years. Unfortunately, he wasn't limited until now. As it seemed in practice, I'll give you some examples. This seemed so that the people deprived of their business skills, completely deprived of their business skills, were mostly socially isolated, not to use any other and more difficult expressions, and often ended up permanently in social protection institutions or health institutions. The bill now provides that the court must set a three-year deadline in which it must be reconsidered whether the reasons that led to the lack of business capacity are still justified. In this procedure, apart from the official duty of the court in accordance with the Family Law and how it cooperates with the custody authorities because in Article 136, it is in the area of jurisdiction transferred to the custody authority, transferred and the custody powers. It is, therefore, the custody authority that conducts custody protection over persons who are completely or partly deprived of their business abilities and who at any time at the review procedure can deliver a valid and comprehensive opinion to the court – whether the procedure is still consistent or not. I won't say that the procedure for deprivement of business ability is being reconsidered, what solutions can be made, that a business ability can be restored, that a person who is completely deprived of his business ability, and because of the improvement of mental health, can be partially restored to his business ability, etc. I'm going to say a few more sentences about another very important procedure, which is the parental right extension procedure. Procedures of deprivement of business ability, I will return to that moment, refer to persons who are of age, persons over 18 years of age. Parental rights extension procedures are initiated at the earliest six months since the ageing right and can be initiated by parents, guardians, custody authorities. In this procedure, the court is obliged, regardless of who initiated the procedure, to listen to the child, the parent, the legal representative and to obtain the opinion of the custody authority, or the social work centre on the fullness of the application of extended parental law institutes. The Serbian Progressive Party, when it comes to improving the country's order and the legal protection of its citizens, has no dilemma and in the day to vote, will support all these laws, and this law in particular because it is about the protection of fundamental human rights which, unfortunately, have not been adequately addressed for 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1375	The word is Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1376	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought I'd give up my discussion for the reason that there are no gentlemen from the opposition, except for one Member of Parliament. Since I am known as a lecture teacher, even if one student comes, out of respect for my fellow citizens and out of respect for Serbia's citizens, I will continue my presentation. The adoption of a set of these laws has its foothold, among other things, and in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, where on the side of 24 exposés, the task of reforming the judiciary is one of the important pillars of the economy of the state administration and creating a safe environment for investment, restoring trust in the citizens of the RS and the economy in the judicial system, which will certainly happen in the mandate, Mr. Minister of this government. Mr. Minister, this is your 35 coming into this high house for two years, which speaks of you as a minister who respects this tall home and citizens of Serbia, and I must say that this is more than half the times of all former ministers in the former government. I'm going to say a few sentences about the Attorney General's Law. As a body entrusted with the protection of the rights of certain public entities, and above all, the state in civilised and well-organised countries has been organised as one state body representing the state and all its bodies in all private relations, all in order to ensure the uniform protection of state property and other property-law interests of the state. In the first years of the communist authorities, the FNRJ in 1945 abolished the state's defence which existed in the state of Serbia and Yugoslavia for more than 100 years, so that the power to represent the state and its authorities was transferred to all state authorities, i.e. it was determined that each state body represented itself in proceedings before the court and other competent authorities. Speaking of legal chaos, let me say one sentence that the judicial system before you came to the head of this ministry, that it was rocking like a building prone to fall, and to say that the previous government elected a dead judge for what did not happen in the history of humanity and the history of the judiciary. This led, as I said, to legal chaos, but once again, in 1955, the unity of the jurisdiction and representation of the state was violated again through the formation of a special military defence that existed throughout Yugoslavia, i.e. only in 2003. The formation of a special military attorney's office to protect the state and property entrusted to the use of the Ministry of Defence and the military has disabled the full civilian control of the availability of that property, i.e. the equal legal protection of that part of State property. Dear ladies and gentlemen, unlike this Yugoslav example of an unanimity organisation of the Attorney General in well-organised states, one attorney's office represents the state's property and legal relations in front of the court and other competent authorities, and even when these countries have a special military judiciary, where one state's attorney's office represents the state and all its authorities including the Ministry of Defence and the military. The defence term is related to the legal tradition of the former Yugoslavia's Republic of Serbia. The defences exist in other countries, i.e. in other legal traditions, but the competencies and organisations of law enforcement bodies differ significantly from state to state. By disintegration of SFRY some of the newly formed, independent states today, have left the existing tradition of organising the defence as bodies representing the state and local self-government in property-legal matters. Thus, as early as 1992, the Republic of Montenegro gave its jobs to the state's prosecutor's office, while the Republic of Croatia did this in 2000. The defences as authorities representing the state and local self-government were also maintained by the Republic of Serbia, which holds the republic's public defence, the province's public defences of Vojvodina, the city's and municipal public defences. The Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Slovenia, and BiH, as well as its entities, Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, also retained the institution of defence. Meanwhile, in 2009 in Montenegro, a special institution was renovated to perform a defence function called the Protector of the Property and Legal Interests of Montenegro, whose position and arrangement reminds many of the order of the 19th-century State Advocate of the Principality of Serbia. In all the former Yugoslav republics, there is only one state body that functions as state defence. In some former Yugoslav republics, such as in the Croatian Republic of Macedonia, the name of defence is assigned to bodies with a significantly different role and competences. Namely, in these countries of the D.A., there are authorities that serve as protectors of citizens, and that's the public defender, to translate from Croatian to Serbian -- the National Ombudsman in Croatia and the National Ombudsman in Macedonia. Today, this matter of the law is governed by the 1991 Law on Public Defence. That law has certain weaknesses that you, Mr. Minister, have spoken of in detail, and I will specify several provisions that have not been well done. The current law did not determine the concept of defence, secondly, the applicable law did not lay down the basic principles on which the defence work should be based, although the opposition today objected that this is exactly what this law does, but it seems to me that they did not read this law, which is exactly what it does. Then, it was not clear how the organisation and the regulation of the defence body should be implemented and, as you said, the name of the defence itself was not adequately clearly defined by adding the word "public" in the name, bearing in mind that protection of public interest is not the primary function of the defence which primarily protects the interests of legal persons representing in the first order of the state, the autonomous province or the municipality, etc. Since 1991, a long time has passed, there have been some significant changes in many fields of social life, as well as in the field of constitutional arrangement and the organisation of state authorities, financing public needs, and especially in the regulation of property rights and relations. That's why it was necessary to pass this law. Let me finally say what is achieved by passing this law, and in the first row three things. First, to list the inaccuracies that you've listed today, and I've listed a few of them, to make them more precise in an adequate way. Secondly, conditions are being created for the most successful protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province and the units of local self-government. Thirdly, this law has a unique and permanent solution to the question of how to achieve the defence function. Also, the other four laws in this set of laws are well-quality and in a comprehensive way resolved. I note that all these laws, as you have pointed out, are in line with EU regulations and good legal theory and practice of Serbian legal science, taking into account specificities. In the end, let me invite all MPs in the first row and from the opposition ranks to give their vote, even if this one MP who is among us tonight contributes to the modernisation of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1377	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Gvozdenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1378	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I am not a lawyer by profession, I am a doctor, a specialist in gynecology, but I have carefully followed Mr. Minister's presentation and has drawn the utmost attention to this Law on Defence. Why? Because we who come from smaller places in Serbia, who I am already the third term of office in the City Assembly, have the opportunity to see how the work of the Attorney General can affect some decisions on the damage of social, or state property. I will quote Mr. Minister, I have written down and remembered that the Attorney General's task is to protect property rights and the interests of the local self-government unit. I will give an example from Valjev, which took place somewhere in mid-2008 after the constitution of the previous government and should not stress that in almost all Serbian cities, the leader of the government was the famous coalition of ZES. We had an example that one member of the main council, seen randomly selected from this list, made a settlement with the municipality on six and a half acres of building land in the city center where a building with six floors was built, although no bonding relations with the city administration or municipality was. To my question as a councilman, how is it possible for the Advocate to answer that it is a legally possible action, i.e. that the contract is legally possible. Well, of course it's possible, nothing is impossible. You can give yours to anyone you want, but at least the state property shouldn't give it that way. In exchange for those six-and-a-half acres of pay, for which someone else might have been interested, because we don't know, it wasn't advertised in the tender or auction, however you want, local self-government got two apartments of 50 squares in the same building. Of course, by selling those apartments for the sake of the city's official and member at the time, it reached close to a million euros. At my insistence, Mr. Markovic, who was then head of the "For European Serbia" coalition, as a serious man has replaced that city council member and this story, Mr. Minister, has ended. Why did I want to talk about the D.A.? For this very reason, it is unusually important for such an authority to have a responsible relationship with the state property and to treat it in a responsible manner. This whole set of laws encourages us that this Serbian government, this government of the Republic of Serbia, is on the right track, that it will not allow Serbia to remain a Kaluderica of Europe, a wild settlement with wild customs, that it will not allow Serbia to be a dark chamber of Europe. But it seems to me that this government must carry out an undertaking and bring this country into normal flows and that this undertaking may be a flat undertaking that our ancestors carried out by crossing Albania and by triumphant return. I am glad that this Serbian government understood the message of citizens, that it could have been better if we had been braver. I see that there is enough courage and knowledge, and of course the will to work in this government, so I fully support this set of laws of justice that you have laid out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1379	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1380	Thank you, Chairman. Dear gentlemen, dear ministers, as far as the sets of these laws are concerned, I cannot agree with some of the opposition's colleagues when they claim these are not reform laws and there was no need for us to discuss the urgent procedure now, first of all, because these are some of our obligations to the EU. If we are going to the EU, we must adopt this as soon as possible. On the other hand, some institutes and some newspapers that are fundamentally reformal are being introduced, because when laws, such as the Law on Exparation Law, but also the Law on Intermediation, relieve courts and when certain extraparious proceedings, i.e. disputes, are given between the other and the public notary, that it is working on intermediation, then it is certainly reformal. It is also reformable when the law emphasises, among other things, that what happens to mediation can become an executive act and, of course, is reformal. So before I was the Mediation Act, which was passed in 2005, we were then listening to the Slavics about this law, how it's really something phenomenal, how it's really going to essentially relieve the work of the courts, which I would agree with, but unfortunately, until today, it's not fully revived, and that's where we can agree, Mr. Minister. Today, when someone is trying to emulate the law, eventually even linguistically, according to our country, it is suddenly not reformal anymore. What I have to point out, and here I'm going to start a little bit of a grudge, about the very Law on Intermediation, which is, of course, better than what was so far, but some things that should, I think, be a little bit improved for some clearer definitions, first of all, when we talk about what might fall under mediation. Here we have a pretty undefined article 3. Of course, everything can fall under the law, but it is said – as in any other disputed relationship in which mediation corresponds to the nature of disputed relations and can help resolve them. You'll agree it's a very broad interpretation. Now the question arises – what can all this fall under? I'm afraid they're probably gonna have to make some changes and additions during some reasonable period to make this more specific. What's very important about the Law of Intermediation, and I think your ministry, Mr Selakovic, is going to have to do a lot of things, is about the training of the mediators themselves, because it says here that we have so-called. General and specialized training and that the plan and the whole programme is brought by the Ministry of General, and for this special one there will be other authorities. Until it's done, essentially this law can't even live in life, so I would really appeal to the ministry itself to start making these plans, or programs, and maybe even do a better campaign, so that people can realize that they can solve their disputes through the mediators and that they can make the courts the more dissipating themselves. It is very commendable that the public notary is given this much importance, because the Institute of Public Literature is something that is really very, very important. I agree, you've set a great example here regarding the desert, because it's completely pointless, when it's known to whom it belongs in the desert procedure, that the court is making some kind of decision about it. This can all be solved through a public notebook. You may find lawyers in a lot of ways to resent you now because you're taking away some of their work, but a fundamentally public notary is really put here on a good pedestal. I'm glad it's even one of the hardest exams you have to pass for a public notary, since this kind of work has to be done. As far as the Attorney General's Law is concerned, I think this is the key law we're passing here. Why? Because it's a very important authority in one country and it's essentially a state's attorney. We haven't really had any control over the defense work so far. It was a complete disaster. Indeed, many do not know what happened in the defense itself. I know a lot of things by chance, and I believe you're familiar with that, too. For example, it would be very important to discover, and that is what Mr Velimir Ilic spoke of as a resolute minister of his time, how we lost the dispute, that is, we did not lose the dispute, but we gave up our money related to "Yugobank", for example, where the defence attorney, Mr Ilic himself said, among other things, that we were giving up our claims, that is, everything we had for the former "Yugobanks", that is, to its locals in Zagreb, in Croatia itself, and we essentially lost large sums of money. Secondly, we had an affair called "Satellite", where the defences also took part in a number of events, that we also suffered significant damage. Not to mention the engagement of various law offices in a very voluntary way, as the attorney's office engaged, that it was not known by any standard that certain law offices were given the opportunity to represent the state of Serbia on behalf of the D.A. somewhere. Of course, this is also very important around the property in Belgrade City, where by the magical decision of the defence attorneys from one of the complete land of the Republic of Serbia has crossed into the property of the City of Belgrade and no one knows how it was done alive. It was only later that we learned that it was very easy, under some secret that had been done. Why? That should reevaluate everything. A truly important institute is now being introduced, which is the supervision of the defence work and I believe that you will make use of it and that you will make a significant effort for the defence to really represent the state of Serbia in the right way. It is very important that the Ombudsman will be able to represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia in general before the European Court of Human Rights in the future. That's what Serbian citizens should know. It's something that's reforming in this law, so there's a lot of good newspapers and it would be good to support it all. I hope that in the debate when it comes to amendments, we will continue this discussion. Anyway, this is worth supporting. This is reformal, and I think you've done well as far as this call is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1381	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger of the Jellysavet of the Colors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1382	Dear Ministers, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only briefly talk about the Law on Intervention in Dispute Resolution, whose reasons for adoption are clearly and unequivocally defined in the Law itself, starting with what is the subject of the law, which are the principles of mediation, the very process of mediation, the duties of the mediator and their training, who can be the mediator and who will be excluded from the mediation process, to the basic rules in implementing the mediation process and its final completion. I would like to say a few sentences about the importance of the objective achieved by passing such a law, which is reflected in the fact that parties in the dispute can voluntarily resolve a very effective relationship through mediation, or negotiation, which is extremely important not only for parties to the dispute but also for discharging courts in terms of reducing the number of cases. The purpose of the intervention is, in fact, an agreement with the opposing parties that gives them the opportunity to avoid and waste time and spend money on long-term court proceedings that very often do not contribute to the parties in the dispute. The intervention serves not only to rehabilitate disturbed relations but also to reduce the number of disputes being settled before the court. The transaction is important for all types of disputes regardless of whether it is property-law, criminal, misdemeanour or any other. I would like to emphasise the importance of intervening in labour or labour disputes. I would particularly refer to that area regulated by the Labour Abuse Prohibition Act, where mediation is foreseen as a condition for the initiation of court proceedings. Therefore, this means that intermediation is mandatory where the employer is required after obtaining a request within three days for parties to the dispute to present and propose mediation as one of the ways to resolve the disputed relationship. This refers not only to the urgency of the proceedings, but also to the fact that the resolution of the disputed relationship can be resolved in a flexible, quick, efficient, confidential way, without public presence, by peaceful means and out of court procedure. But there's a problem because we don't have a small number of licensed intermediaries in which parties in the dispute trust, so work disputes usually end in court. It is therefore good that this law introduces a system of issuing mediation permits to determine whether a person fulfils the conditions for carrying out the intervention. The better we will have a public register of intermediaries, and it may well be the most important of all that we will have a rope specialized mediator who will deal with a certain type of dispute. Only so and only with such closely specialised intermediaries can we simply, they can be a prevention, to say to the courts, to prevent courts that would be achieved through a well-organised process of protecting impartial and professional mediation, impartial and professional agreement that would permanently and finally resolve disputes in the interests of all parties. The essence of out-of-court dispute resolution is actually in the confidence of the parties in the dispute in the mediator, and trusts will be so much greater if intermediaries are professional and should work on it continuously. This draft law on dispute settlement is extremely good for many reasons, and the most important thing is that it allows the highest standards to be met in the process of mediation, which are also EU standards. I don't think there's any reason for this law not to be passed like the other laws that were before the National Assembly. The Serbian Progressive Party will support a set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-14-0.u1383	Since we've exhausted the list of speakers, and before we conclude a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on drafts of the agenda law under points 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
