ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 126 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Guys, you want to put your cards in the electronic voting system to determine the quorum? I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 139 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. You have received notice from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – NDS, Together for Serbia, Green, Serbia, on the death of MP Miodrag Rakic, as well as the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this notice, which found that the death of the MP was the case of Article 88, paragraph 8 of the Law on the selection of MPs and proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the mandate of this MP. Accordingly, and pursuant to Article 88(1), point (8) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the time of his election, MP Miodrag Rakic, on the day of his death. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're continuing our work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic, Dr Milana Nikolic, Aleksandar Jablanovic, Branko Ružic and Ninoslav Stojadinovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to this session, in addition to Dr Nevena Petrusic, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Saša Janković, Protector of Citizens and Rodoljub Šabić, Commissioner for Public Information and Protection of Personality Data, Attendant and Ljiljana Lončar, Assistant Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Gordana Stevanović, Vladana Jović and Robert Cepi, Deputy Protector of Citizens, Mina Rolović-Jocic, Chief of Staff of the Civil Protection Officers, Katarina Jokić, Councilor of Citizens and Marinko Radić, Commissioner for Information from Public Meaning and Protection of Personal Data. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you could see for the fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 I established the following Dn e n e d: 1. Regular Annual Report of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality for 2013, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of 30 May 2014; 2. Regular annual report by the Citizens' Protector for 2013, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government; 3. Report on the implementation of the Law on free access to information from public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2013, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government; 4. A report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2013, with the report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018 and the Action Plan for its implementation with the proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government; 5. A report on the work of the State Auditing Institution for 2013 with a proposal for a conclusion of the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds; and 6. The draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Given that a proposal has been submitted for a merger of the debate on certain points of the agenda, before we move to a decision on the proposal, we need to determine whether there is a quorum to decide on. I'm asking Members of Parliament to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. It finds that, by applying the electronic voting system, 183 MPs are present in the hall, so the conditions for decision-making are met. National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, under Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 191 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to conduct a joint single search on: the Regular Annual Report of the Trustee on the Protection of Equality for 2013, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality; the Regular Annual Report of the Citizens for 2013, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and a Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government; the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information From Public Matters and the Law on the Protection of Personality for 2013, with a proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Equality of Public Genderes and the Proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Govering; as well as a joint Single Search on the Work of the Agency's 2013 Anti-Corruption of the Court of the Year, with the Final Budget of the Finality of Law of the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Committee, the European Parliament and the Committee, the President of the President of the President of the President of the European Union, the European Parliament of the Council, the European Parliament of the Council, the Council, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council, the Council, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council, the Council, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council. Does the National MP, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, v – five abstentions – there is no, no vote – 37 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of Mr. Luka Biankoni, the head of the political section of the EU Delegation in the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Nadju Čuk, Deputy Chief of Mission of the Council of Europe in Serbia and representatives of the OSCE Mission in Serbia, Mr. Milos Bulja, Mr. Del Mason and Mrs. Jelenu Jokanovic, who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Please welcome our guests. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts in the agenda of points 1, 2 and 3 and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. [[Applause]] The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the Parliament group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Articles 192 and 193 and in accordance with Article 157(2). I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Joint Single Search on the Regular Annual Report of the Trustee on the Protection of Equality for 2013 with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality; a regular annual report by the Citizens' Protector for 2013 with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Equality of Genders; a report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information From Public Matters and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2013 with a proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and a proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Governing. Ambassador Marko Djurisic, on what grounds? Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2571	Article 97(3) of the proposal to extend the debate united. Today, we adopted a grouping of discussions of three reports. These three reports together have over 500 pages, and I believe that because of the importance and all that is in these reports, this Assembly deserves to devote a little more time, and I suggest that the Rules of Procedure extend the time of debate, i.e. double the time of debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2572	So it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're using the law. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Marko Djurisic to extend the time for debate. I ask the messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Do the representatives of the rapporteur want a word? Please sign in. I give the word Nevena Petrusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2573	Dear People's MPs and MPs, I am pleased to present today the Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, the central national institution whose mission, as you know, is to combat and protect against all forms and aspects of discrimination. If I were to assess the current situation in achieving equality in one sentence, I could say that significant positive developments have been made in the past period, but that the situation is still not satisfactory and that we still have much work to do to build a society that provides everyone not only with equal rights, but also equal opportunities and equal access to all the resources that society has. There were 18 employees behind us for the fourth year of continued work, and during 2013, 18 other employees worked in the Commissioner's professional service, and two others were employed in Novi Pazar, our first regional office which we opened thanks to the support of the National Assembly, the European Commission, the local authorities in Pazar, and it seems to me that this is actually a step towards what is ahead for us, which is to make this institution more representative throughout Serbia, and again, with the support of the National Assembly, it is planned to open three more of these regional offices. During 2013, we conducted 716 complaints procedures, which is a 25% increase compared to 2012. In these procedures, and they are mainly initiated by individuals, in 77% of cases and in 12% of cases by NGOs. So in these proceedings, we gave the law-based opinions and appropriate recommendations aimed at preventing further discrimination and removing the adverse consequences of discrimination. In addition, acting preventively, as it is also our task, we have given six opinions on draft laws, 24 general recommendations. These are those recommendations that we refer to the public authorities, which aim to take appropriate measures to improve equality, and we have also issued 35 statements and warnings to the public. We conducted a total of seven strategic litigations, three of which were launched right during 2013. We've also launched two constitutional evaluation procedures. It's also a trustee's authority. More than 1,000 citizens have come to us, and in our reception office legal information and legal advice has been requested by more than 70 citizens. When it comes to recommendations made in individual cases of discrimination, when it comes to discrimination against individuals or groups of persons, I am pleased to conclude that most of these recommendations have been implemented. However, when it comes to these general recommendations, these are those to whom we recommend taking appropriate measures, we cannot be satisfied, because there are also recommendations among them that we made two years ago, we repeated them once again without them being implemented until today. That's the way she is, for example. a recommendation to the Ministry of Education in due time concerning the elimination of discriminatory content from teaching materials and the adoption of acts regulating the way educated institutions are handled in cases of discrimination. It is very important and we are very pleased that, according to our recommendation, a strategy for the prevention and protection of discrimination is adopted, which has been very positively assessed not only for the quality of the Strategy itself, its content, but also for the quality of the process itself that followed the creation of this document, which was fully participatory and which included all social actors, including NGOs. An action plan for the implementation of the Strategy has also been developed. I hope that he will actually round up what we can call a once-in-a-lifetime anti-discrimination policy that will take place in the Republic of Serbia, at all levels and in all sectors of government over the next five years. In the past year, despite the very, very modest capacities, we have sought to be fully proactive, to influence our actions to raise public awareness, to spread knowledge of anti-discrimination regulations, to develop a culture of human rights, equality and tolerance. I want to say that in the past year, our focus has actually been on the work on the ground, to say so, or to work in municipalities and cities within Serbia, because we have really tried, as far as possible, to bring this institution closer to the citizens, to bring what is in our laws to them, to explain to them how they can and to whom they can address when they recognize that they are being discriminated against. We saw, and I talked about it the last time we presented a report for the previous year, that we are getting very few complaints from certain areas of Serbia, which means that there are areas where this institution is not visible and where work needs to be strengthened. In order to achieve precisely that objective of preventive action, because these are two parallel fields of action, we were also producers of knowledge, so to speak. We published 13 different professional publications, which alone, in collaboration with other institutions. They're meant for judges, prosecutors, media, ordinary public. Many of us have published in the languages of the national minorities, and the Law against Discrimination for the first time has been published in Bray’s letter. During 2013, we implemented a total of six various IT projects. Some of them are not finished in 2013 but are being implemented in this year as well. We have implemented these projects in co-operation with public authorities, with civil society organisations, with the support of European funds and international organisations. You have all these projects in detail in our report. I would only mention one, and this is the project of implementing anti-discrimination policy in Serbia - the IPA project. Thanks to him, we have established permanent co-operation with public authorities and civil society organisations in as many as 11 municipalities in Serbia. We held over 35 different lectures, stands, workshops, educated people and brought them closer to the institution of trustees and the anti-discrimination legal framework. We continued our co-operation with the Council of Europe, the OSCE Mission, UNICEF, with the UNDP, with more than 30 domestic NGOs with whom we have indeed worked together to improve the knowledge and awareness of the public. I believe some of you know that over the past year we have prepared and presented to the public and two special reports, including the presentation of MPs and MPs. One refers to discrimination against people with disabilities, and the other is a special report dedicated to child discrimination. In this second report on child discrimination, children themselves, young and in their own making, participated in his presentation at the public hearing held in the National Assembly, which brought great attention to the public and one network that exists in Serbia, which brings together all NGOs involved in child rights protection. Of course, in all these reports, we've made appropriate recommendations. Based on the insights we have gained from the complaints, based on the insights we have gained from other sources, in Serbia, it could be said, on the basis of all these data, the most widespread discrimination based on nationality, with the most disciplined members of the Roma community, who are also exposed to structural, institutional and other aspects of direct and indirect discrimination. Then there is discrimination based on disability, based on gender and marital and family status, and most often there are victims of women. There is widespread and discrimination between LGBT persons as well as old people. We've had several cases that we've worked on, and where you actually see that just years of age are the basis for someone being discriminated against. Discrimination takes place in all areas of social life, with the largest number of complaints that have come to us regarding discrimination in the field of labour and employment. We cannot say with certainty that discrimination is the most pronounced, but surely we can say that when people in the area are discriminated against to seek protection, they recognize it and, of course, it's an existential issue, so that's quite understandable. What concerns us especially and what I want here specifically to apostrophe is the fact that more than one third of the complaints that have come to us about the discrimination that is happening in the proceedings before the public authorities. So, those who should strictly respect anti-discrimination regulations, when I say public authorities, I mean all public authorities, state authorities, local self-government authorities and other bodies with public powers, just as they appear as discriminatorys. A certain explanation of this phenomenon has been given by the research carried out at the end of last year, which has actually shown that representatives of public authorities, executive, legislative and judicial bodies, at all levels are actually not sufficiently familiar with our law. One fifth of them don't even know that discrimination is illegal. Even one third does not know that hate speech is prohibited by law, and 41% of respondents, therefore, are representatives of public authorities at all levels, do not recognise the phenomenon of direct discrimination and the phenomenon of indirect discrimination and what is the difference between them. They have the most prejudice towards LGBT persons and small religious communities, which is when we measured their distance from the social that they have toward individual groups. What is particularly worrying, and I would like to point out in particular here, is that 48% of them consider the discriminated groups themselves responsible for their position. So here, in fact, in some ways, the responsibility of the state to prevent and combat discrimination and to ignore one common known fact is relatively relatively responsible for the position of minorities is always the majority. In this 2013 report, we have formulated over 20 recommendations. Some of them are recommendations that we have actually repeated, contained in our previous reports. If implemented, they can indeed speed up the process of establishing effective equality, because we have established and guaranteed the right to non-discrimination in the normative field. Some of these recommendations are fortunately already realised. So now it's June, and in the meantime certain activities have been undertaken. I only mention that in the meantime, thanks to you, or the work of the National Assembly, a law that regulates the depravity of business ability, and one of our recommendations just referred to reforming these discriminatory norms, outdated and anachrons, which were contained in the law that was passed in 1982. I really hope that those who have not been implemented and, as I said, I repeat, from year to year will be implemented and that the National Assembly, using its control powers, will monitor how they are implemented. Among these recommendations is the last in a series of recommendations to provide the Trustee with an adequate space to work, to strengthen capacities and successfully achieve our mission. I expect the problem of space will soon be resolved. If we really want this institution to be successful, then it is necessary, especially given the process of European integration and the need to improve the effectiveness of protection against discrimination. In the end, I would like to say that the trustee institution has in a short time gained a great reputation among European bodies for equality. In our work, we respect international European standards and practices based on what the European Court of Human Rights stands for. Our opinions and recommendations are published in European chambers with examples of good practice and as examples of good practice, and the confirmation of our status is the fact that Serbia and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality will host a meeting of the European Network of Equality, which brings together about 40 of these bodies from European countries this October. Of course, I am prepared to answer all your questions and about the data that have been provided and about additional explanations that should be given eventually. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2574	Thank you. The word is Sasa Jankovic, Protector of the Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2575	Good afternoon, distinguished presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, colleagues and colleagues, ahead of you last year's report concludes with December 31st who tried to reflect on one side the state of respect for the rights of citizens in Serbia and on the other hand, to give you enough information on the work of this state authority, i.e. the Citizens' Protector. I believe you'll have a lot more to say about it than I do. It's on me not as a proposing, or a proposing representative, but as someone who is the initiator of the act, or who has adopted the act that you should consider today, to say what I think is most important. First of all, what is in the report is not the result of abstraction but during 2013, 18.399 citizens addressed the Citizens' Protector, of which 3,000 more than in 2012, of which 5.038 made a formal complaint about the work of the authorities. In 40 cases, I've initiated control procedures on my own initiative. 3,939 procedures have been completed, almost 4,000 procedures have been completed. I can commend the authorities on one side that they have implemented the recommendations of the Protector of Citizens more significantly. So, in the 561 case, an irregularity identified by the recommendation was removed in the given deadline, it was the number of authorities that were even without recommendation after the open procedure of control, not expecting the Citizens' Protector to determine the irregularity himself - that he was a citizen, we're going to remove that, and that's a significant increase. In 339 cases, recommendations were adopted after all more than 88% of the failures identified by the work of the Protector of Citizens were removed. A state body that is specific to what it does not order does not adopt implementing acts, unlike my other colleagues, could be considered to be 88% and in line with European standards and that is very good. However, one more time in front of you I want to say that this is not a very good result, that the failures established by the Protector of Citizens are not ordinary failures. Thus, unlike any other law enforcement authority in a regular situation, the Citizens' Protector does so when there is a suspicion that it is a particularly incorrect violation of the law, of a particular inaccuracies, of irreparable damage that threatens. So when it is suspected that there is something that is not only for a citizen to try to correct for himself, the state itself needs to check whether it is possible that one of its authorities has acted so illegally and incorrectly that the Protector of the Citizens on behalf of the State, not on behalf of the citizen, practically does so. So, when I'm talking about these determined failures, it's about failures that shouldn't have happened if someone had worked in a safe, correct, professional manner, so it's an emergency failure in the work of the authorities. Once again, although 88% more than a solid number are essentially citizens of Serbia whose rights have been violated in a particularly incorrect way, it is the competent state body of the Constitution authorised to establish, gave recommendations to the authorities how to correct it and it still did not happen. In the past, the National Assembly adopted a recommendation at such a similar meeting, or conclusion that it required the government to report to the National Assembly every three months on the recommendations made by the Protector of the citizens of the executive authorities. Not once has the government informed you of which authorities, above all, have not done so. I think there is a basic mechanism that can improve the exercise of citizens' rights if the government starts as its obligation, not the obligation of citizens' protectors, because this is essentially the government's obligation to take care of what recommendations the Citizens' Protector has made and that Parliament is notifying the reasons for it. I'll tell you what the public authorities are who are preceding the recommendations and you won't be surprised if I say they're public enterprises. So if 88% on average of state authorities, say, 100% of the Ministry of Defence almost as much as that of the Ministry of the Interior, BIA, implements recommendations and removes the gaps I have identified, know that 0% of the recommendations. Therefore, of the six recommendations made, no public undertaking has implemented. Then let's ask ourselves if anyone thinks it's above the law. After that, the administrations of the ministries follow, especially the organisational units that have a specific task, but from these administrations all unexecuted recommendations are not implemented by the tax administration. Now I want to tell you from this place that the IRS thinks the state is in the state. I will give you an example that all citizens understand, and of course, you, our fellow citizens who remain pregnant under the law, have the right to make a living during pregnancy, or maternity leave. Our country is often late in payment of that fee. So those who are in a particularly vulnerable position because they are primarily women, so they're still pregnant, they expect a child and don't get a profit because they don't work for a second condition, they don't get a profit from the state for months, and thus their elemental right to survival is compromised. Then that fee will be paid suddenly in three months or two, will be paid cumulatively in one month, will exceed the amount of 60,000 dinars the untaxable amount of a solid tax and then be charged a solidarity tax. So it's so absurd, it's ironic that we shouldn't even talk about it. Something that shouldn't happen, and when it does, it should be settled at the level of two referents, we assume in the Service of the Protector of the Citizens and in the Tax Administration. It leads to the exchange of documents, the formal establishment of the Protector of Citizens, that the law says that income is taxed rather than earnings. Just because more money is paid at once, that doesn't mean that it's a profit but it's a profit, I guess it's clear, so that it's not done, that it's accepted, that it leads to a meeting of the Minister of Finance and the Protector of Citizens, and I guess the finance minister has a very different kind of obligation, but we also had to meet and the finance minister says, yes, you're right. Then let someone from the IRS say – but I don't know if we can figure it out and get it back. That, honourable MPs and MPs, ruins the important, drastic trust of citizens in all of us, and the Guardian of Citizens, because they ask me, and what do you serve if you can't get the IRS to do something that's so obvious. Of course, it devises, or destroys work, trust in the work of the executive authority. It's destroying trust in you, too, because you passed a law that someone is applying to the nakarad, and I'm going to say openly, it's a narcissistic application of the law. The national authority of the Protector of the Citizens whom you chose to correct, he corrects it and someone is still stronger than all of us. Until that changes, we're gonna have some serious problems. Which is all the reasons why the rights of citizens are violated and the rights of citizens are sustained, I tried to cite in the opening part. The power of political will and populism over the rule of law. When you chose me, I reminded myself then that political will was necessary for the law to be passed. You should have the political will to pass the law, and when you pass it, law enforcement is a matter of rule of law, not of political will. However, it remains open, even openly said at meetings -- there is no political will to implement that and that law. Weak institutions versus strong political centres of power and the personality of officials. The minister's decision on matters is awaited, and there is no basis for the minister to decide, although the elections, by which case, the ministry, stand, nothing is signed. Weakness and ineffectiveness of the judiciary. Justice is a basic mechanism for protecting human rights. We are all paradic bodies, the Protector of Citizens, and above all, I am acting as I said in cases where it is pointless for a citizen to sue the state to prove something the state obviously did wrong, because that's when the Guardian of Citizens prevents the need and the state from being sued and that the citizen spends money on trial and solves it without a court. I will remind you that the court fees are extremely high and that this is, that is, to reduce the pressure on the judiciary, but at the same time that the law on free legal aid has not been passed, and that the poorest citizens have been left without the opportunity, the essential opportunities to seek justice and get justice in court, and that still the paradour bodies such as the Citizens' Protector are not in a situation to arrive at every part of Serbia, at any time, and to replace what courts should do, and especially not in emergency situations. The public defender has also turned into an emergency service. In one Netherlands, a highly developed country, when the Manchester solves a case in less than six months, then a co-worker who worked the case traditionally carries a plant, a flower, as a token of gratitude. We do it in less than six months, but it's not normal and it has to change. Media manipulation. I filed this annual report on March 15th, and in it I found that unlike the previous report, when serious tablodiation of the media appeared, that we entered the stage of the tabloid of the state, that state procedures, in the jurisdiction of state authorities, facts, evidence, statements from investigations that would have to be hidden, that they appear in the same media at all times, and that clearly some non-transparent goals that can't be achieved in one regular way, are achieved by placing information in the media, half-truths, truths, sometimes complete lies, that in one day we can make a hero, and that even in this tragic situation, and that another day, someone can become the biggest enemy and criminal, and citizens are told that decisions about such things are no longer made in the institutions, but that they are made in the media and that decisions about who are rightly, who, who works a little, who does not necessarily, who should be able to do so much, and who is not necessarily, in fact, in fact, in fact, the institution, that it is responsible by the institution. This seriously undermined the exercise of the rule of law and the rights of citizens as prescribed by the law. Unreformed administration. They're full of mouths to everyone about how there are unemployed in the administration, and that's true. Are we going to find out once who these workers are, and then fire them, or do we find out where there are surpluses, and then fire those surpluses, and where there are shortages, because there are parts of the administration where there are shortages? The building ministry, that's one of the examples I'm going to give you, there's an organisational unit in it that's a second-degree body for catastre-led procedures. We've changed the law and the cadastre now decides on the property rights of citizens and that's what it comes down to. There are geodetics, geometers, not lawyers, and numerous complaints from citizens on the fact that catastra's decision is being complained to the second-degree body, the Ministry, and that the decision is not waiting for two months, what is the legal maximum, for two years, three years, someone doesn't know where the border is. Then it turns out that in the second-degree organ, for all the catasters in Serbia, there are five people, eight people, and on average they get 24 on average for first-degree cataster decisions. When I asked for these complaints, I mean the number 24, the citizens, how much on average is basic, they told me – twenty. So we have a first-degree body, Katastra, which, by definition, makes illegal decisions in 2/3 of cases. We have a second-degree management body, which, instead of two months from now, can solve it in two or three years, and then the Citizens' Protector should write an opinion that there is a need to increase the number of people in Katastra, or in the second-degree body. One more question, I asked them if these catastres that make illegal decisions all the time, if anyone records, so they train those people or sanction those people, punish them for making illegal decisions all the time. No, I don't. That's not true. We hold on to the fact that the administration is too numerous, corrupt, and concrete things are lost on that general tide. It was brought to my attention last year that dozens of strategic acts, plans, no concrete actions, no deadlines, no specific funding that clashed with each other and generated a parallel world of action plans strategy, which exists mostly virtually, and what is being established by control procedures, the trustee said, there are people who get paid from budgets who don't know there are some laws, let alone strategies and action plans. I listed in last year's inspection service report in the Republic of Serbia, so over 30 of them, plus in the province, plus at the municipal level. It's 1,000 people who are paid daily to check in the field, whether the situation is equal to what it says in the regulation. There is a serious need to strengthen the inspector's competences and an even greater need for their responsibility to work and reluctantly also to be quantified. Neither can the Guardian of Citizens, nor is it intended to replace all the inspection bodies, can replace the work of the sanitary inspection, the work of an educational inspection, health inspection, because it is the jurisdiction of the executive authority, and my job is, once again, when a situation so far goes down from normal flow, there is a need to check whether it's something else, and not just bad law enforcement and to do so. There's something going on the other way around. If you look at the statistics, you'll see that I practically rejected over 1,000 complaints, because citizens haven't even tried to use any legal means available, they haven't even spoken, if it's a school, an education inspection at the Ministry of Health. I'm not doing it calmly, because I know citizens don't have enough confidence in inspection bodies and when we tell them, talk to the first inspection body, many of them say, so he dumped us and he knows he won't do his part of the job. It's up to us, and I'm still doing it to establish a system and make inspection bodies the first dam and first correction to correct irregularities, not to be the Protector of citizens who are the last. People on the move are one of the topics that rose from the usual event last year. More than 200,000 internally displaced citizens, who are not new to us, unfortunately, in these reports, have also developed a serious problem that I hope in the future will cease to be a problem, but the phenomenon will certainly increase because of migration, which is also regular migrants and asylum seekers. Our country has not prepared itself, even though it has had enough time to accept it properly. Once again, we even entered the domain of newspaper headlines in foreign press according to asylum. I hope that on the initiative I submitted to the Ministry, 40 and some of the concrete recommendations that I made to the MUP, it will establish order, it will begin to exercise its jurisdiction. Let me tell you that last year thousands of people entered Serbia without any documents, stayed in Serbia without any documents and came out of Serbia without any documents, as if we were a flow water heater. A real kid. I would like to highlight this issue because last year I submitted proposals, or amendments to three laws, to provide adequate support to the most vulnerable children and their families. Three amendments to the three laws that should have allowed the parents of these children to still work, to earn income that their family could maintain, to develop local support services, to have these children primarily have wider social miles than just a father and a mother or one of them. After more than a year, these amendments to the laws were not considered, nor did an alternative amendment come from the government. Since the government agreed that the changes were necessary, it assessed that the proposal of the Protector of Citizens was too ambitious and said – we will do something that will achieve the same goal but in a better way. A year has passed, forty-seven thousand citizens have signed, although there was no need for that, formally, standing by the proposal I submitted. So, 40,000 citizens wait a year for something to happen and that's not what happened. Now they ask me and you what this is for. Birth equality. Let me say that the prevalence and intensity of violence in giving birth is such that it exceeds all the regular frameworks we have. Please support even my proposal to go to the MUP, to be organized a special team that will deal with domestic violence and co-ordination of the work of the field units of the MUP so that what is going on doesn't happen. It happens that social work centres get knowledge of violence, but they don't pass it on to the police and the police get the knowledge, but they don't inform social work centres, that the victim of domestic violence is exposed to additional trauma and that someone looks at it and tells us – so it's not our priority. Over 40 women last year lost their lives in violence in their family. What's good is that, following the recommendation given by the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, they brought in special protocols in handling cases of violence so that no one could say I wasn't obliged to notify the centres for social work or I didn't know what to do. I'll end up with people with disabilities and national minorities. Deinstitutionalisation, a large process that sounds very nice, means the transfer of persons with disabilities who have been in closed stationary institutions in the regular environment, in the social community, and for this it is necessary to provide conditions in that community, to provide local services. You can't move someone from a special hospital because it sounds nice to deinstitutionalize and put him in a family that has no elemental or expertise, no knowledge, no resources to help that same disabled person live in our society. I'm afraid we've remained in the phrase of deinstitutionalization. If you are interested, I will tell you about the concrete procedures and results of what it looks like when local support services are abolished, when they are not provided in the budget for the continuation of the funding project or when the budget provides for the continuation of the project financing, but someone does not give consent to people who have done local services until then, in this particular case for children with development disruptions continue. It's human tragedies. National minorities. Rommie, first of all, remains the most vulnerable. The exercise of Roma rights to education and health care has been improved. This should be commended, but particularly difficult situations are particularly difficult to hit by the particularly vulnerable and hit by the Roma. And in the next annual report, unfortunately, you will have the opportunity to read that in these floods all citizens are hit hard, but the hardest Roma. It is hard for me to end without regrets that from year to year a fundamental thing about the exercise of the rights of national minorities, I must mention the exercise of the right to education in the native language and from this place I call on the Ministry of Education to review the current way of organising teaching for children of members of national minorities and for members of the majority in local environments where minorities are the majority. So we have segregation in schools. We have Albanian schools and Serbian schools. We have Hungarian schools and Serbian schools. Children of Hungarian nationality do not gain enough knowledge of Serbian language and cannot use it enough to, for example, be able to apply to a competition for employment, while Serbian children, although living in a place where the Hungarian or Albanian majority language is, do not speak a word of that language and there is a complete separation that does not aim to achieve minority rights, which undermines the elemental matter, and that is the need for integration. As long as our politicians at the local level can say – yes, the law says that when over a certain percentage of national minorities, a minority language should be introduced as an official language in finding a community and it should be arranged through the statute to find a local community, but we will not vote for those changes because the statute is passed by voting, so we will not vote, we use our freedom of choice not to vote and we practically vote against the law and that it is possible, we will spend unnecessary energy and time and year after year repeating these problems. Well, I may have fallen too far, but I expect that there will be a need to clarify something.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2576	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Rodoljub Sabic, a trustee for information of public importance and protection of personal data. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2577	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear colleagues, I will continue to save as much time as possible for the debate to come. So I won't look too much at the data from the report. Any discussion on the state of affairs of the two laws which, under the circumstances of the trustees, implies basic information on an institution called the Public Information Commissioner and protection of personal data and on two laws, the Law on free access to information from public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data. When we talk about an institution, we've been creating it together for a long, ten years. I can say without any false modesty that we've managed to make it. So today we have an institution that in the area of freedom of access to information achieves over 93% of efficiency. So, more than 93% of those who were denied their right to access information, after intervention, after addressing the Trustee get it. It's a result that, without false modesty, I can say, would not be ashamed of my colleagues in the old democratic countries of the West. What was characteristic of the institution during all the years of existence stopped being characteristic last year. That's one great news. Last year, the government solved the problem of spatial conditions for the work of the Commissioner for Information and Personal Data Protection. It gave us a chance to unify what had burdened that institution for years. It may sound immodest, but I have to remind myself, I remember the time we started and it worked for the first six months by being in the most literal sense funded by my personal means, and then on the spoon, it got one three bedroom apartment, then another floor, then some other office at Omudsman's, etc., which made it impossible to develop in the way you made your decisions. As an institution, the trustee never encountered a problem of consent to the bill of systematization regarding the budget and the like. The congregation was here to support. But all of this could not be realized because, I repeat, for years, there was no room to accommodate even a minimum number of people. Some of you wouldn't believe it, but I'll be back, say, by the end of 2009, the trustee waited with five employees. That's when he was already given second law jurisdiction. These were the relationships that created a problem that still today burdens that institution, which is the problem of unsupervisedness. Several thousand items have been inherited that need to be taken down now. Unfortunately, this brilliant government move to secure space has been annulled by a ban on employment. We have room now, but we don't have enough men. I don't want to go any further on that subject. We have an institution that has a high percentage of efficiency and that would have an even higher percentage if some mechanisms didn't work in the hands of the trustees. In that context, I will now move to the Free Access Act. I stress, relatively unrealistic and absolutely large number of complaints received by the trustee, last year there were more than 9,000 cases in order, talking about the mass of problems in the area of freedom of access to information. But, of course, that's relative data. I'm quite certain that at many levels of government, from local to republican, citizens are now getting a lot of information that a few years ago could not even imagine being sought. So there are problems, but the rights come true in a much more robust way. What should be the direction, and the common goal, is to reduce the number of complaints. It should be realised in a way that is simple, which is imposed, and that is a proactive publication of information. Authorities should offer as much information as possible on a proactive basis, not waiting for citizens, journalists, not waiting for any complaints from the trustees, but raising as much information as possible about their work on their official electronic presentations. It's not as hard as some people think it is. With regard to the Free Access Act and the possibility of making it even more efficient, to reduce that number of cases, I'll tell you something that's almost cartoon, but what's true. Last year, I received a letter from one of my European colleagues, whose mandate had ceased, and which, as a turn, had been sent to all her colleagues and informed me that during her term she had some 700 and some items. It happens that the Serbian trustee receives so much over the course of a month. We need to cut the number of complaints. There's a real possibility of that. But in order for that to be the case, I have to point out two more negative things in the area of freedom of approach. They are related to the responsibility for breaking the law and to the forced enforcement of trustees' decisions. When it comes to responsibility, of course, that law, like any other, provides punishment for its violation. The law is very interesting precisely because that law can only be violated by officials. The law does not violate ordinary citizens, due to the construction of laws, so three years in a row. The state, and that can only be done by the competent ministry, because the trustee was not given a prerogative to initiate misdemeanor proceedings, if in three years the state is not pursuing any single law breakinger, then it sends a disastrously bad message, sending a message that is actually calling for a violation of the law. In this context, these 93% are worth more than they are worth in themselves. It is really necessary that we stop this practice by violating any law that this Assembly is voting and that is in force in Serbia. It must be answered, no matter who broke it or what function. In this context, I will draw your attention to a phenomenon that has been touched by my colleague Jankovic. In fact, the general problems with freedom of access to information are moving from the field of classical government. There are fewer and fewer problems in public communication with authorities, with ministries, with administration authorities, etc. I'm not saying there aren't any, but there are fewer. The main problems are concentrated where counterpart Jankovic spoke earlier, in state and public enterprises. It's not a story that some try to launch, it's not a story – it can't get information. You got it. No one's ever refused me any kind of document, but the trustee won't give me any information. The construction is such that he only decides on the right, so he decides on someone's right and gives a warrant, and that someone is required under the law to treat the act of the trustee as final and in this country executed. But there are those who don't. There aren't many of them, let me just say it right now. This number of 200 or 250 items is negligible compared to the many thousands of objects mentioned, but it is not in principle negligible, especially given the potential quality of information. That is why, at the end of last year, not this meeting, I sent a special report which, unfortunately, has not been discussed, a report on problems in the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information in State Enterprises. I'm running him for your attention and for this occasion. As for the protection of personal data, the situation is much worse than the first area I spoke about. So, while in the area of freedom of access to information, with the continued presence of a series of problems that I am convinced we will solve, we have one process that is reversible. He'll go better and better, with all the problems. In the field of protection of personality data, we have a condition that is more than worrying. We have already received the Personal Data Protection Act, which was originally a good message. It was the first step in realising some process that is now our formal obligation, since we signed the SAA with the Union. It is now our formal obligation to bring our legal order into line with Union standards. So, apart from having passed a law that was not in many ways ideally in line with Union standards at the time, but it was a good message because Serbia first confirmed this right and determination to guarantee and protect citizens, we did nothing. It's for a transition country, for everyone, not just for Serbia, a huge task. The story of protecting personality data is literally a copernicus form. We lived in collective systems where this story – private, personal, individual, was always the ultimate one on the scale of value. A mentality has been created in which the state can work with citizens' data what comes to mind. Who the hell is he supposed to be interested in? It's a serious, big task. It was not solved anywhere in the world by an institution, not even much better, supported logistically or materially, but rather by a Serbian trustee. It solves the state on a number of levels. We need to create a normative framework, and then strengthen an institution that is able to protect standards established by this framework and thirdly, most importantly, we need to launch a serious, large-scale process of education, so that people who in the authorities, and not only in the authorities' bodies, in Serbia at present, are 300,000 entities who are not the authorities of most of them, are dealing with personal data collections, so start a large process of education, explain to people what this Assembly is, not in this assembly, but I hope in this conference, with a new law on the protection of personality data. We've done practically nothing on this plan, along with a series of trustees' warnings. I'll illustrate to you what it looks like. Four years ago, on a major initiative, not to say pressure from the Commissioners, the government adopted a Personal Data Protection Strategy, prepared by my associates in co-operation with EU experts. The government then adopted and said within three months it would adopt an action plan for its implementation, which makes sense to the Strategy. A strategy without an action plan is a list of good wishes. Today's action plan hasn't been adopted. The strategy is a dead letter on paper. Just one more illustration. Here, for example, the law, in line with good European standards, says that Serbia guarantees particularly the protection of particularly sensitive data. Specially sensitive data include what international standards treat everywhere in the same way – political membership, nationality, religious definition, sexual orientation, health data, not to mention, data recognizable and particularly sensitive. We said, "We will protect this in a special way and in special ways." Then there is the next provision of the law – the government will bring a regulation to articulate this declared protection within six months. It's been more than five years, the regulation is gone, and that provision of the law is empty nonsense. In practice, the trustee is very often happy with the demands of citizens to give answers to a number of questions in this regard. If I didn't say one more thing, that's where I end up, I hope I kept my word that I won't be too long, our law is and conceived as roof law. The Personal Data Protection Act tends to be the main law, it does, to establish the main standards, but of course, only at the principle level. These standards must experience their own particularisation in a number of other areas. We, according to our good Serbian custom in the Constitution, have extremely high guarantees of rights. Thus, the Constitution says – protection of personal data is governed by law. No, so, with government acts, only acts that, by law, only you can bring. It is regulated by law, then it says: "The processing of personal data, except for the purpose established by law, is forbidden and punishable." Gentlemen, I'd be delighted if we had that arranged bar at the level of decent sublegal acts. But, of course, citizens don't need to care if I'm happy or not. They have every right to insist that the state of Serbia guarantees those standards it has entered into its constitution. We don't have any legal provisions, let's say the famous video surveillance. Thousands of places buy it, install it, etc., calling for, of course, legitimate, life-saving, the need to protect life and property. Who shoots, what he shoots, who can look around, and how he's kept, where he's sent, who he distributes, redistributes, there's not a single rule. We don't have a very delicate area of security clearance. We don't have the law. Of course the state needs security checks, which can be denied. Of course, he has to check out people who need to perform certain functions or who need to be in certain situations. The security checks we're doing, because that's what the need dictates, do our services, etc., are a couple of excellencies, unconstitutional. They're not regulated by law, however legitimate the need for them is. Why don't we do it? And so on and so forth, so I don't count the whole series. They're not in biometrics, there's no rules or anything. I'd end up with something optimistic. So, ladies and gentlemen, I plan on going out with a model of a brand-new data protection law these days. That's the result of my associates' months of work. I'll go on the site and invite everyone interested to a public hearing. After the end of the public debate, after we respond to these remarks, put it at our government's disposal, as some attempt by the Commissioner, you know that I do not have the opportunity to propose the laws, unlike Sasha Jankovic, as some attempt to contribute to these efforts by the government, and then to parliament, in achieving this objective, which is to bring Serbia's legal order into line with EU standards. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2578	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the heads of authorized parliamentary groups or authorised representatives want a word? The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2579	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed representatives of independent regulatory bodies, DHSS MPs and MPs will vote for the adoption of the reports we have heard, as well as for the conclusions of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, although we have some objections, but note that the opinions and warnings are taken seriously and that recommendations contained in the reports that we have had the opportunity to read and whose arguments we have heard now. This specifically concerns recommendations concerning the work and conduct of state authorities, including the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We conclude from the report that we have been given and discussed now that the independent regulatory bodies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have justified their existence, that there has been a significant increase in their work compared to the previous years, that the number of citizens addressed to them has been increased, that the number of guided and resolved procedures has been increased compared to the previous years, it is evident that your activities have been in line with the powers defined by the Constitution and the laws, that the actions have contributed to strengthening the control function of these bodies, that you have made it possible to fulfil in an adequate manner the control function of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have contributed to a plan to strengthen democratic capacity in our society, transparency in work, both local self-government and state authorities and, what is very important, and to establish the principles of responsibility. In addition to some of the shortcomings, which I am going to say, we believe that the reports are detailed, comprehensive, consistent, concrete, life with examples of practice, containing all the elements of a valid report. We also believe that they are balanced, that an appropriate balance has been established between affirmative and critical observations. On the other hand, how good it is that they are so extensive, so large, it is not good, because this bears witness to a number of cases of violations and endangerment of human and minority rights of citizens and free access to information. In addition to the scope of the report, in the opinion of MPs SPO and DHSS, these reports do not, however, speak of all examples of denying the right to free access to information of public importance in Serbia. First of all, because it's not the responsibility of the representatives of these bodies, the Commissioner for Public Information. The problem is that in our country no law has yet been passed on opening a security record. The SPO's legislative proposal was filed 10 years ago, with the aim of determining the responsibility of those who threatened the lives, integrity, human and civil rights of others. The law's intensities were to prevent such crimes from being repeated in the future, to remove from public, political life the individuals they were doing, to achieve justice for victims, to enable the media, our scientific, educational public, to investigate in a valid manner the period of communist, one-party, non-democratic regime, as well as the time of rule of the Slobodan Milosevic regime, when basic rights were violated to Serbian citizens, including the fundamental right to life. In neighbouring Bulgaria, a law on files was passed, which envisioned the formation of an independent 12-member commission elected by Bulgaria's Co-operation with the task of studying archives of local security services. It is interesting that the commission found that, from 1991 to 2001, there were 121 persons in the government of Bulgaria, and in their parliament, Sobranje, 179 people found to have been co-workers of the former state security service during the communist period. I don't think this could be the reason why this law isn't passed. The adoption of this law on the opening of a security service file is our obligation on the road to joining the EU. I would like to remind you of a statement issued by the then head of the OSCE mission in Serbia-Montenegro, Mauricio Masari, who said he could not see why it is still difficult to adopt the law opening the file. I quote: “This job is necessary, in order to expose unacceptable practices of the past, to correct injustices and to enforce justice against victims of repressive regimes, including their moral rehabilitation and where material compensation is possible. ” Since that difficulty, which Mr. Masari spoke of, it's only been 13 years. In the report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, there is no word on the violation of the equality of people who were convicted after 1944 for ideological and political reasons and who, under the provisions of the Rehabilitation Act, have the right to judicial rehabilitation, but not the right to submit compensation requirements for the time innocents spent in prisons, camps, for their impaired health, for their suffering fear, for mental fear and pain, for the denied ability to work and education. The SPO considers these to be some of the basic human rights. Unfortunately, unlike some other countries that have been in the communist system, we do not have the opportunity to provide people with both this material and monetary satisfaction. Also, there is no word in the report on the violation of the equality of several thousand members of the Yugoslav Army in the country and members of the Ravnog Movement, which are the first in Europe, I have to remind them, in 1941, that they gave organized guerrilla resistance to the Nazi occupation of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and they have submitted in the past 10 years requests for recognition of the status of participants in the Liberation War, but unfortunately none of their demands are positively resolved although the law exists, the law allows them, and they have been forced to address the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. I must remind myself that on the proposal of the Serbian Renewal Movement Group 10 years ago, in 2004, the National Assembly passed a law that we call the Law on the Enabling of Rights of Members of the Ravnog Movement and the Partizan Movement, which received great support from MPs and MPs then convened the National Assembly of the RS. Even 176 voted in favour of the legislative proposal, and despite such strong support in parliament, this law remained inapplicable, remained a dead letter on paper, primarily due to the obstruction of SUBNOR, but also to some local and state authorities, which MPs and MPs should be informed of in the next report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Despite the still-expressed problems and difficulties, independent regulatory bodies have established better co-operation with state authorities and have gained greater confidence in citizens. At the same time, with the support of the public and the media, they have successfully resisted major pressures and tendencies of marginalisation. However, they continue to face unresolved staff issues, primarily lack of employees, which is approved by systematicisations, insufficient work space. Unfortunately, they do not have all the necessary technical resources, but rather the chronic lack of funding needed to work. In the SPO and DHSS, we believe that it is necessary for independent bodies to provide all the conditions for uninterrupted work, whether this applies to the use of official cars, whether it is the number of employees, because otherwise, denying this will cost us much more in both the literal and the conveyed meaning of the word. It is significant that the report also contains proposals to improve the law and regularity of the work of the authorities, as well as proposals for amendments and additions and harmonisation of laws and sublegal acts that regulate the existence and jurisdiction of these bodies. We believe that the Government and the Assembly are obliged to consider these proposals as soon as possible. It is our obligation on the way to the EU, and what is most important is that it will contribute more effectively to the work of independent regulatory bodies. Certainly, it is not good that certain findings have been translated into your opinions and recommendations. Every year they just repeat themselves, and they don't really get rid of each other, nothing seems to fulfill them, and that's the obligation and responsibility both of us MPs and MPs of this body. The best illustration of this is the fact that, Mr. Sabic spoke of it, as early as 2010 at his initiative, the RS government adopted a Personal Data Protection Strategy, but the government has not yet adopted an action plan for its implementation. It was a three-month deadline for the adoption of an action plan, and it has been four years since then, so we hope it won't be four more years until we get this action plan, because this and some other strategies remain just some dead letter without practical effects. Of course, among these failures, the government's failure to act negatively is also being singled out. For five years, it has been waiting to pass a regulation on the protection of the so-called so-called protection. particularly sensitive data relating to national and religious membership, political definition, as well as health data. What we wanted to point out and to make a recommendation, more requests to the media, means of public information in our country, is to pay greater, more significant and longer attention to the work of independent regulatory bodies so that citizens know, above all, their existence, competence and to make these bodies more effective in their functions. In the end, I would like to point out mine, but also our belief that these reports will not be voted only by those MPs and MPs who are not in the Assembly Hall during the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2580	Ljiljana Nestorović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2581	Dear Representatives, guests, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have the need to say immediately at the beginning of my presentation that you Commissioners for the Protection of Equality, Protectors of Citizens and Commissioners for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data have been given to discuss very high quality reports. I believe that's what we all agree on here. They contain everything that is necessary to fully reflect the situation in the areas of your work. In fact, they, in my deep conviction, provide a precise cross-section of the whole state in society at all levels, all layers and determine and detect exactly the greatest weaknesses that we as a state should correct to turn into a developed democratic society. Your reports are comprehensive because they give a cross-section of the current situation in each field of work, and contain earlier recommendations and data on the implementation of these recommendations, review the government's relationship with other state bodies according to the recommendations addressed. They also contain illustrative statistics on the number of resolved cases, as well as concrete examples of practice itself, and all this is to be welcomed. For the sake of citizens, the work cycle of all three state authorities, whose reports we are considering, is very wide and it has been established by specific laws that these bodies have been established and that has been subdued here several times, and I think it should be subdued every time. That is why these reports are also extensive, but also very well systematized and interesting, most importantly, they are clear and concrete. Quality certainly stems from the serious work of these state authorities, whose reports we are now hearing and discussing, as well as their commitment to improving the situation in the areas of their jurisdiction. When we talk about the purpose of the existence of these three state bodies, I think there's still a misunderstanding about the role and importance they have. The point is, and I will tell the citizens who listen to us, that the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data has chosen the National Assembly on the basis of specific laws, which are particularly important for the exercise of citizens' rights. They are entrusted with the control of the executive authority, but certain tasks from the executive authority can also be carried out as trustees, leaving them autonomous. These authorities are independent in their work and independent in the sense that the government, or government, should not have any influence on the resolution of cases other than the necessary co-operation in the supply and exchange of the necessary information, documents and whatever contributes to the improvement of the situation in those areas. That's why we call them a little bit colloquial independent state bodies, although it sounds like an oxymoron or even a fourth branch of government. We, MPs in the National Assembly, exercise oversight of their work by checking whether they comply with the laws they have been established. Independent state authorities are at the disposal of citizens, among other things, and in achieving co-operation with the parliament itself. The establishment of independent state bodies started in our country, and it should be recalled, just ten years ago, in line with EU recommendations, as their importance has long been recognised in these countries. So, the work of these people who have been here since the beginning of their positions is actually pioneering on a field that we haven't met as a society until they were founded or faced. The example works, the Manchester in Sweden was established in 1908. As the first year of 2004, the Law on free access to information of public importance was introduced and the Commissioner for the Protection of Information was established against public importance, whose adoption of the Personal Data Protection Act extended competence and protection of personal data. At first, all of these institutions, and we could hear it here from all of them, faced serious problems and different problems, from a vague process of constitution, inadequate working rooms, and, in that regard, the number of employees needed. These problems have been solved over many years, so the working conditions are better now, and they admit it, too, than they were. This does not mean that they are good enough and I urge that, regardless of all the austerity measures and the whole policy that I support and believe that we should introduce order in the state and that we have more employees, but I fully agree that there are simply significant proportions about where there are too many people who do nothing and where there is a real lack of people and there is a serious lack of personnel that should be at the service of the citizens. I think we'll do the best thing if we take it seriously and make a simple change at these levels. In particular, I would like to express my satisfaction that the relevant parliamentary committees, therefore, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and the Committee on Justice and State Administration, have taken the utmost responsibility when considering these reports. It is a significant step in congregation work, and it is the least that the National Assembly can do to meet those we have established and to ensure their better work. Once again, although the trustees and the Citizens' Protector have said a lot about what we are as MPs, as a Assembly, we need to do to enable them to do their job more effectively, but I want to simply underline once again what is expected of us, because that is the main thing that we need to hear and accept here today. So the recommendations of the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection are the following, as I understood. To adopt as soon as possible an action plan for the implementation of the strategy, because without an action plan, strategies cannot be implemented, which is logical. Then, to bring sublegal acts into the field of protection of personal data, which was already required to do, which I underline once again. Also, to pass a law on the protection of alarmers, as the need for purpose and such a law is recognised, as well as to amend the Law on free access to information of public importance and to establish the authority of the Commissioner to give an opinion in the process of passing the law, as well as to submit infringements, because these are obvious errors in the law that exists. To re-evaluate and amend the members of the laws for which the Trustee before the Constitutional Court has initiated a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality. That the National Assembly should consider an earlier report indicating a harsh violation of the law in state-owned enterprises, which is apparently a state in the country. The way things are, it's gonna be the hardest thing to change. And to ensure that the final and binding solutions of the Commissioner are executed more effectively. What are the recommendations of the Commissioners for the Protection of Equality are to also adopt a famous action plan for the implementation of the strategy and to approach the new strategy by 2015, to pass a law on free legal assistance and information law, which I believe the Assembly will discuss very quickly here, that it will be on the agenda, that judges, prosecutors, police officers, civil servants and health professionals, educators, journalists and others, and that is very important because there is nothing in practice without sensitisation, that they are all more intensive and organised education in all these areas. It's crucial that we as a society understand what we're doing and who's doing it, because we all have to do it. A series of recommendations in almost all areas of socio-economic life have been set out in the Citizens' Protection Report, which therefore propose amendments and additions to the applicable law, the adoption of new laws and sub-legislative acts, as well as other operational measures and procedures. So why is it important that we carefully consider this report and take the recommended measures? Especially because they are given recommendations that are essentially good, meaningful and necessary and because people have proposed them, in my deepest confidence, and I believe that I share the position of the majority, of the really integrity that we have chosen and who know best their fields and problems in them, because they specialize in it. We've established these state authorities to control the law enforcement in certain areas, and that means they control the government's work, control the work of all other state authorities, and publicly, undermining, publicly reacting to any irregularities. This builds civil society and only strengthens the institutions of the legal system, in action, and not just as a declared principle. On the other hand, the government and other state authorities also have the right to publicly state the arguments, in fact, to reason on the possible misjudgements of these state bodies, all of them wrong, and you can make mistakes, or on the conclusions they make, which they consider not to correspond to the exact state of things. In such interaction society goes forward and develops and it is my deepest belief. I believe that these sparks and these conflicts, too, may be unnecessary, but perhaps necessary, right on the surface and in the first place in the media, have thrown out those topics that we have to solve as a society. It's conflicts, but I think they're constructive, that the government reacted well, that even the trustees reacted well, and that from these constructive conflicts we're actually pushing further, marking everything that burdens us and tortures us. That's why you don't have to make a big drama out of it. I think it's just a conflict of opinion that results in quality and that we actually contribute to this society. That is why we, as MPs of the SDPS, but I believe all my colleagues in the Assembly, will support these proposed conclusions to improve the situation in the various areas for the functioning of the state and that we will advocate the implementation of these conclusions, as well as that there is always a procedure for examining responsibility when the government is deafening them. Once again, even the most developed societies have, no matter how many developed mechanisms, no matter how powerful the government and the powerful state and the old democratic tradition are, they have problems with both corruption and censorship attempts, with abuses of political, financial and any kind, which are just being solved in this way as we are trying to do here today. I think it's appropriate, and I want to do it, to remind myself not so long ago of our past. At the time, the 2001 government set up a Council on Combating Corruption. On her forehead was Verica Barach. It has done its best, no longer need to talk and underline, to show by example how responsible it is to treat the state, how it seeks to build its institutions and gain citizens' trust. Unfortunately, she personally did not welcome what she had been doing as a priority on the agenda of this government. She was often, when she was working, most challenged, even whispered, obstructed, and I don't think that can happen again. So, all of our support for SDPS MPs, I mean the ruling majority, and the opposition, what you've delivered here, and we wish you good luck in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2582	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2583	Thank you. Dear Presidents, Citizens' Protectors, Commissioners and fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group considers that one of the basic messages that should be addressed to citizens from this session of the Serbian Parliament is an increase in confidence in independent regulatory bodies, in order to ensure that citizens in a number of cases, when their rights are at stake, are denied in any way, prescribed by law, guaranteed by the Constitution, international conventions and declarations, in order to protect these same rights, are addressed to the independent regulatory bodies in order to protect them effectively. On the other hand, what is the obligation of independent regulatory bodies is that, in accordance with the law and with the Constitution, they closely monitor all occurrences of possibilities and even in fact, violations of citizens' rights to identify them, to respond to the injury and to remedy the injury. However, in this situation it is necessary to establish facts. The facts to which the injury is proven, to which the injury is confirmed, because none of the present representatives of independent regulatory bodies, begins with the Protectors, the Trustees, which is again for informing citizens, is arbitant and cannot arbitration in situations that are controversial. It cannot usurp the jurisdiction of the court, it cannot judge, but it can therefore make recommendations as it seems, as reported in the reports and as is otherwise determined by the citizens by pointing out specific situations, concrete cases to prevent such situations, or cases from happening again. What is very important is to point out that we, the MPs in this House, too, should contribute to the fact that laws involving independent regulatory bodies and their status and their competences must be as precise as possible, more clearly, in practical application as possible. Why? Well, because, at least we'll agree to that, there's a conflict between laws. At the Justice Committee, I pointed out this, I will repeat this and now, and this time, that the MP group of the SPS insists and supports Mr Sabic when he said that they must be put under emergency procedures or amendments and amendments to the law or that new laws should be passed in order to avoid conflict between the laws which regulate the matter that we are discussing today. It often happens that in a conflict of laws on free access, information of public importance, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data with the provisions of the law, such as the fight against corruption, or the Anti-Corruption Agency. In this direction, the SPS parliamentary group is ready to participate in any way in the adoption of such legal acts, to make them as high-quality as possible. When we talk about all these reports, of course I will focus on what I believe to be of particular importance from the point of view and profession and vocation I am dealing with, and I must point out that all three reports, the report of the Commissioner for Gender Equality, or the prohibition of discrimination, the Commissioner for the Protection of Personality Data, the Protector of the Citizens, are something that the SPS parliamentary group will support, or vote in the Day of Vote for these reports. We have a lot to point out through individual examples, because it is logical that all of them could not be covered by your reports and it is logical that there are those who, for the sake of the public, must be affirmed for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in order to warn again in order to prevent any negative phenomena to which you "exofficiencies" or under official duty react. When I said none of you were arbitration, I said for the citizens. None of you judge. I said that again because of the citizens. But you all have a significant role in the fact that this country exists on democratic postulates, that citizens' rights are respected in the best possible way and that these rights are affirmed so that they no longer harm themselves. What seems most important to me when it comes to the Citizens' Protector's report, are certain parts that deserve special attention. If we start from the beginning, we come across the first segment relating to economic and social and cultural rights. It is no doubt that in that part of the infringement of the right seem very numerous, that by the quantity of these injuries there is more and more, but we have to admit to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the generators of these injuries are precisely a major economic crisis and recession through which the Republic of Serbia is going through, the financial situation of citizens and their standard is very difficult because of that, so until we remove this problem generator we won't be able to fight for the protection of rights in the way that citizens expect us to. By improving the standards of the population, improving economic power and strengthening the economy, it is doubtless that the degree of protection of these rights will be far, far better. When it comes to the judiciary, as one of the pillars of the three pillars of government system, examples of violations of rights are listed. Here I am going to say to the citizens full-on responsibility that the most radical example of a violation of law is the right to work guaranteed by the Constitution just started in the area of justice in 2010, when without any criteria, over 700 judges were left without their job, when more than 700 minor judges were on the street, and when circumstances were created that produced the inexplicably harmful consequences that they are feeling today. The team before, after the Constitutional Court's decision, by applying that decision, the same 700 judicial officials were returned, and we still have no criteria on which we can determine whether all those who were first resolved, or unreelected, and then returned, meet the conditions to perform the judicial function. It really is an experiment on living people, an in vivo experiment that deserves special attention in terms of endangering and that flagrant endangering the right to work. From there, other problems in the judiciary that involve violations of the rights of citizens are already generated, primarily violation of the right to trials within a reasonable period of time, and in a broader sense, violations of the right to a fair trial. I would ask you, Mr Jankovic, to supplement the existing reports in one of the future reports, because you are familiar with the fact that, according to the Ministry of Justice's proposal, there has been an amendment and an addition to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, where the violation of the right to trial is within a reasonable period now within the jurisdiction of the courts of general jurisdiction, therefore, is no longer exclusively in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. They are no longer citizens, and for the work of meeting citizens required to address directly to the Constitutional Court, I can now do so, at least I hope more efficiently and faster, in front of the courts of general jurisdiction, and these are senior and appeals courts. Of course, all of this when we talk about justice means something that includes our obligation. In order to restore trust in the judiciary, in order to protect citizens' rights, above all at a reasonable time, we must continue to work to ensure that the procedural laws adopted here are raised by a degree of quality in order to make an effective trial in the practical sense of the words most applicable. I'm sure we're still not at that stage. The courts and the judges are still handcuffed in that direction. I have pointed out to the Justice Committee a problem that is overloading citizens today, and I will point it out again because of the citizens, because the SPS parliamentary group wants to act transparently in the direction of what our obligation means, and it is an obligation to show that our work is truly worthy of what protects the interests of citizens means. It is about the adoption of the Law on Privatisation, Amendments and Supplements that we recently adopted and thus tied our hands to the judges, because we forgot about the Constitutional Court decision that protected executives in employee status, we forgot about the instructions of the Supreme Cassation Court which also protected employees in the status of executive creditors. Today, these same employees are not able to carry out the execution procedures consistently until the end, but again who knows which time these executions are delayed, and they remain denied the possibility of settling their claims. Serbian citizens and how they know how many such situations are, in which situations remain denied their elemental right, and the basic right in the enforcement process is to collect claims, or settle debt. As far as the media is concerned, Mr. Jankovic, I agree with you that it is necessary to make sure that independence or freedom of the media is not abused. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has consistently insisted on this, given the unprecedented number of cases and experiences that we have all been through together, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, more or less. Why? Because through the media, although we seek their absolute independence, at the same time transparency, their freedom, which is one of the basic democratic principles and democratic postulates, we seek responsibility, responsibility for every word, responsibility for every attitude, responsibility for every comment in the newspaper column, or any part of media exposure. Why am I saying this? For the simple reason that it is not a unique case that just through the media an atmosphere is created where, without a court decision, without a decision of the competent authority, a position is formed whether or not a suspect, whether or not someone is guilty, whether or not he has committed a crime, whether he has succumbed to anti-legal action. That's inadmissible. It is unacceptable for hearings to be held, especially in criminal cases, to be moved from court to newspaper columns. It is unacceptable for you to have a situation that is paradoxical, much more than paradox, that you have a person who is detained, held in custody for avoiding an impact on witnesses, detained for the purpose of avoiding public harassment. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, these are two reasons why someone is detained. On the other hand, you, in the means of information, have statements of that same suspect, which were literally transferred from a pre-criminal or investigative procedure. So where's the protection of personality data, where there's respect for the presummation of innocence, where there's everything that means the right of citizens, I'm talking about citizens. We have situations when another story is generated that has nothing to do with the judiciary, and it justifies one distorted picture of any citizen who may appear in such a situation, or even a public official, or even a minister. Is it permissible, and you will agree with me, that absolutely not, that exactly through the media, through the means of information, you are making a call to the lynch, to the murder of the minister, to hang on the terraces. Is that when it comes to freedom of the media, can we then talk about the independence of the media or the abuses that are made through the media? I also believe that your functions impose one obligation on you to provide all the information that you have at your disposal to the competent authorities, regardless of which authorities it is, whether it is the prosecution, the attorney's office, the courts. Why? Because only those institutions are held accountable, civil, criminal, or any other institution. So, in front of the citizens, you'd have to. We've had situations in recent times where, without reason to the facts, we've had qualifications that were presented without decisions by the competent authorities, or institutions, without court decisions. It was a case of small graduation, it was a case of textbooks, and all of these are situations where there is a obligation of the Protector of Citizens, trustees to respond, above all to the law, the manner prescribed in accordance with the powers and powers given, and only then to carry out certain assessments, or qualifications which are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the judicial authorities or other institutions to which I have pointed out. What I think is also important are the facts relating to the second part of the report, and it concerns administration and public administration. Mr. Jankovic, I am fully agreed with you here, that public administration and administration are not only not being reformed, but are generators of numerous problems, extremely big problems, when it comes to violations of citizens' rights. We have administrative procedures that take years, decades, even decades, where emergency procedures are at stake. We have the silences of the administration, as one of the incredibly large phenomena, which also implies a violation of citizens' rights. We have the situations you mentioned, and they're linked to the immovableity cadastre service. These are all special cases, but what we have to point out, in front of the citizens, are facts, and the fact is that citizens are denied that their rights can right in front of the authorities of the administration, especially local self-government, are realised in an effective way. For building permits, it's been waiting for years, absolutely unnecessary, even when all the conditions are met. Why? Because we have an administration that is absolutely unnecessary, because we have a corruption that has lived to this extent that it is precisely the part that needs to be eradicated systematically. Systemically, we have an obligation, and in a practical sense, these are the ones the law refers to, where laws must be consistently applied. What also seems important to me is that in the Public Administration Sector, there is some kind of nepotism that we have contributed to ourselves, where local self-governments appear as para-states. They appear as small states in the Republic of Serbia which we have given certain powers to independently or freely make appropriate decisions, even in contrast to the law, when it comes to regulating the rights of citizens at the level of local self-government, even in this situation, we allow for the unnecessarily doing parcels of cadastrian parcels, to deny the right to service, that these same rights are allowed in a way that is inadmissible and therefore we have a huge number of court proceedings, we have the overload of courts with lawsuits that involve citizens' interests, to protect them through courts, or on the basis of a court ruling. When you have stated in the Report that there is a threat and other groups, I will fully agree, with the fact that we are already in one situation to complement the Report of the Trustee of Equality and your Report, so that I will not specifically comment on the so-called vulnerable groups, children, LGBT groups, given that the Commissioner for Gender Equality, the prohibition of discrimination, has already stated in her report a lot of what is read and without comment, especially because I have no intention of worrying about my discussion here and not of the citizens. My goal and the aim of the SPS parliamentary group was to present the facts, to establish, on the basis of the facts, the situations in which you act, to identify injuries and features based on facts, and then, according to your competences and powers, to make recommendations or to initiate procedures. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will support these reports, and of course we will have a comment tomorrow when the remaining parts of the report, or reports from the second set, are also for respect and special attention and analysis, and I thank you for your work so far and I wish you success in your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2584	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2585	Dear guests, respected representatives of independent regulatory bodies of the Republic of Serbia whose reports we are considering today, as SDA Sandzak MP, a minority party in the Republic of Serbia, I am assessing the report of these independent republican regulatory bodies, which we are considering today, that have been done extremely well, particularly given the possibilities, and technical and human resources with which these regulatory bodies are available. We propose to the Assembly that these reports be adopted in full, without any cosmetic changes. Why do I insist as a question of minorities? The question of minorities because of the fact that these regulatory bodies are actually beginning to produce the desired results for which they were founded. This essentially creates conditions for general democratisation in our country and for improving living conditions. The Sandzak Party of Democratic Action notes that the competent assembly committees in the draft conclusions on these reports seem to ignore the perceived problems and try to undermine the problems facing citizens, especially minorities, in the field and in their own way try to cloud these clearly illustrated facts presented in the reports. It concerns me as a member of the Bosniak national minority. I expected a much greater understanding of the majority parties, the ruling party, because we minorities will not be able to create conditions alone to improve the conditions on the ground. The minorities are mostly victims of all these monsters that are happening and all three of the reporters in their reports are talking about. What I'm saying is that these reports and the work of these republican regulatory bodies, unless their recommendations are adopted, only turn into complaint counters. That is why I insist on the Assembly that without cosmetics, without embellishment, without demeaning the events of reports that are on the ground, they fully and fully adopt these reports, with particular recommendations. As far as this is concerned, we have one specific case in conclusion to consider the 2013 Annual Citizens' Protector's Annual Report. In the first part of the Constitution, the National Assembly assesses the National Minorities Act, and in the second position calls on the Government to remove its shortcomings in this law, which was passed 15 days ago. We're like a minority party to deal with the essence. What's the point? The point is that as a state, we are asking the Assembly to propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia to establish, as soon as possible, the draft law on the approval of Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Resolution No 1985 of 8 April 2014. By adopting these effective mechanisms, which have produced positive results in European countries, I estimate that we will facilitate the functioning of all these regulatory bodies as well. There will be no more regulatory bodies independent of only complaint counters, but will be able to actually follow the application on the ground and the resolution that we have undertaken as a state to adopt and apply in practice. On the other hand, we propose that the National Assembly invites the Government of the Republic of Serbia to take the necessary measures to bring the national minority population into line with the national structure of bodies and public authorities, such as the prosecution, judiciary, police, customs, inspection services, etc., and to agree with the national population structure. It will be another strong mechanism to facilitate the realization of all these problems in the field that the regulatory body has found with its reports. In addition, the SDA of Sandzak calls on the National Assembly to order the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make up a single roof, single draft minority law, to unite the Law on the Rights and Freedoms of National Minorities of 2002, the Law on National Councils of National Minorities and the Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for National Minorities. It means that this is united in one roof law and that this law does not respect our colleagues as our recommendation, to provide for and finance the election campaign of national councils. This existing law, which has been passed, disregarding our nine amendments, is quite radical, with many shortcomings, so we believe that one such law should be drawn up which will have built-in mechanisms for financing the election campaign for national councils of national minorities. One more thing, the same law did not respect our remarks that the law did not regulate the participation of senior civil servants, officials, by the president of the state and ministers in the election campaign of national minorities. This traps us once again to endanger the difficult position of minorities. In order for all these reports, which are extraordinary and where we congratulate, to make sense, we suggest that the National Assembly invites the Government of the Republic of Serbia to define national councils of national minorities by law as state bodies of minority self-government. There lies the key to everything. Do we want minorities to complain constantly or do we want to allow minorities to exercise their rights themselves as in other countries of Europe, as is foreseen in this Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? We propose that the National Assembly, when appointing members of the Assembly's commission for the execution of criminal sanctions, make it mandatory to allow the representation of minority MPs to be members of those committees. We propose that the Assembly order the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the competent Ministry of Education finally take steps to comply with the law that the Government has passed and the Instructions which, on my two-month insistence as an earlier member of the Government, is adopted by the government itself, but in the field, no one respects or implements. The Bosniak minority in general cannot exercise its right to education in Bosnian, native language. And not only that, but we as MPs can also exercise our rights that our personal documents and documents of our countrymen, even our official IDs, are not done here in this Republic in accordance with the law, or health books, or other documents. That is why the ruling majority must have understanding if we want to go to Europe. If this is not accepted and the objections, i.e. recommendations from the Commissioner for the Protection of Gender Equality, Commissioner for the Protection of Citizens and the Law Implementation Report, issued by the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning, then there is no point in making a will here for each other, to compete in the beauty of speech. To finish, once again I congratulate all the regulatory bodies on these reports they've made. I suggest that the Assembly adopt these reports without any change and adopt the recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2586	Thank you. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of independent regulatory bodies, today there are three reports before us that we can stream much longer and much shorter, the reports are as they are. The congregation committees passed, and they were proposed to be adopted. The report can always be done much better and much weaker. I'm not going to talk about it, I'm not going to comment specifically on what's said in the reports, except for a few items. A lot my colleagues said before me. However, the fact is that these are three new bodies, three new institutions of the state, which need to strengthen or restore citizens' trust in state institutions. Since we've even come to a state losing trust somewhere, that's another question, which we can first of all ask for an answer in transition. We're a country in transition. Many times in this House, as a longtime MP, I said that transition is nothing more than a revolution, and the revolution in this case is not armed, but is not without victims. Just because there are those invisible or visible victims of the revolution, we have these regulatory bodies that help us get through this process as painlessly as possible. The citizens are hungry for justice, and they have a right to it, and the Constitution guarantees them the right to do the justice they seek. Of all the reports that came before us today, I'd particularly like to remain on the citizens' protector's report. In this House, we have chosen Mr. Sasa Jankovic unanimously and I am not talking about him as a personal solution, but I am talking about this institution, because he is, above all, the institution of the Protector of Citizens. I think that the report contains everything that citizens point to and everything that citizens need to address the Citizens' Protector by seeking their rights in relation to the state. Very often, citizens are unaware of where they can or are not sufficiently informed where they can accomplish everything or where they can point out when their rights are threatened. We are in charge of enabling the legal functioning of both the states and institutions this country chooses. A few things that we noticed in the report, which is why I personally think that the report is good, and in the voting day I will support it, is what the Citizens' Protector pointed out very closely, and many things in one society are layered, complex and they act together by pulling one reaction after another. Much can and must be repaired at this time in Serbia. We're all on this assignment together. What one of the things I'm going to point to today is what the Guardian of Citizens has very well seen, presented and even through some examples in practice proved in his report. It's the media. I'll read about the citizens just something he listed in his press report. In Serbia, media are guaranteed freedom. However, citizens are also guaranteed the right to be informed by the Constitution in such a way that they have the right to be truly, fully and in good time informed of issues of public importance, and the means of public notice are obliged to respect this right. This right, with the elements prescribed by the Constitution, is seriously violated in Serbia, especially in terms of truthfulness and completely. In the race for circulation and ratings, but also under direct influence or pressure from different centres of power, citizens are placed selective, incomplete, semi-information, as well as completely false, factually incorrect misinformation. Of course, when you have one false or false information, you don't have it, but you have a problem. I just want to talk about one situation that concerns all the colleagues here, because there are 250 people by name and last name, representatives of citizens, about one such ugly and unfair misinformation, maliciously placed by the media precisely against this high House, which primarily represents citizens and where, I sign, every fellow who has come as a representative of the citizens, is honorably and committed to doing his duty as MP. Serbia is at a difficult moment right now. In addition to the economic crisis, we were struck by a terrible natural disaster. Serbia has proved and shown as a state that it is up to such a difficult moment. All of us, from government to citizens, were at any moment ready to deal with this difficult situation, wear it and overcome it as painlessly as possible for all Serbian citizens, especially those affected by this disaster. However, we are all witnessing that one part of the media has been very ugly, incorrectly presented and very maliciously placed information on the assistance paid by the MPs. We were all gunned down. We didn't react in the desire not to irritate that media. Here, I react and risk another lynch media again, but if you remember, first, the article was completely incorrect. In several media outlets, the articles went so far as to conclude whether or not we had given this much or so much help. The article invited citizens, extremely sensitive at that moment, to the lynch of this tall home and us. I've had it that way. I read the many, mostly negative, rightly irritated citizens who commented on it. The media's responsibility and freedom of the media must go hand in hand. The situation that we can monitor every day in the media should really be at the height of the task, not even tabloid. We have to deal with ourselves as one responsible society with the process we're in. I hope that, as often as possible, the Guardian of Citizens will react more and more frequently in this case, although I was pleased to read that 399 of his proposals or suggestions were adopted when it comes to human rights threats. This is just one observation that I needed to bring out here in public, because so far we haven't brought it out here, and it's human beings know that representatives in this high house are people who really do their job and work both responsibly and committed. I'm someone who's been in parliament for the fourth time, with great pleasure, I think I can say for every colleague who's been for the first time and more than I have, that I've recognized an honest commitment to the interests of the citizens. What I can say about the reports at this point, I think I'm intertwining some responsibilities between these regulatory bodies, that maybe the existence of three regulatory bodies dealing with citizens' rights might be a little more economical, perhaps even more efficient, because it's going to confuse the citizens a little bit. We have one seriously increased administration in all fields. I'll talk to one another about a number of agencies, this huge cost that citizens don't exactly see as an effect in their daily lives, and we know that administration is something that seriously burdens the budget of citizens. At this point, citizens are extremely sensitive to any specific or increased cost related to each of their duties. As a result, Mr. Jankovic may have been the subject of several times these days because of the salary he made very clear that it was brought into this home and that it was compared with, how the amount came out. It's the media again, and it's still a calling that needs to be checked, to prove it. The fact is that Serbia is a country that has a difficult moment and all unnecessary, excessive, burdensome givings should be reconsidered. If this is something that has been brought into this home, I suggest that this home review and abolish any possible or reduced any possible cost that could be directed or directed at something more useful, more necessary, more necessary for the citizens of Serbia. Budgets aren't government funds. The budget is the funds of Serbian citizens. The budget is the property of Serbian citizens and they should at any time have confidence that it is spent in the best possible way and in the best interests. That's one way to prove it to them. As a result, there are independent regulatory bodies, in order to prove, by their own actions, that they work in the best interests of citizens and that they exist because it is the best interest of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2588	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2589	Respect, Mr. Chairman, respected journalists on the agenda, I'm sorry we're having an urgent debate today. I have to admit that I haven't had the opportunity to read all the reports that are being discussed today, given that we are in the last, I think 48 hours have been informed that this topic will be on the agenda, even though these reports have been there for several months. It is a shame that these reports are good and show the problems that exist in our country, the problems that are not from yesterday or today, the problems for which this government is not alone responsible, the problems exist for a long time and which, as we can see from these reports, and also from oral exposure, are solved. Easy, but they're getting rid of each other. I can recall discussing these reports a few years ago when political roles were changed, so I was part of the ruling majority. It was not always pleasant to listen to and read these reports and then to understand them as a kind of criticism. I think that criticism is useful and that it contributes to making the situation in our country better, to make all citizens better. In that sense, I think this debate is good today. We see commendations from MPs from the ruling majority. Of course, our opposition is where and where to better praise these reports and to use them only for some things that can be used in political life. I would like to avoid politicizing these reports and really try to get some good things out of this, to make sure that we all commit to the government together, we are the authority in the state that gives the government some instructions and controls this work, to correct some of the shortcomings that are in these reports, and perhaps some of which we can agree on in this discussion, as well as in the discussion that has been conducted on committees, where certain tasks are given to the Government, which is expected to do in the next period, as well as some deadlines. It would be good if, what has not been the case so far, the government had made known about these deadlines, or had done some work. At the end of each conclusion, it is said that within six months, we will report what has been done in these conclusions, get that report in six months and discuss what the government has done. I've paid the most attention to the citizens' protector's report, because it covers all spheres of society. There was an x-ray of the situation in many areas in our society. It's hard to single out now... The very structure of the report, since I suspect that the citizens had the opportunity to look at it, speaks about what was well done by the state, and then some problems are identified which are not, and through this particular example is explained and a proposal is finally made by the Citizens' Protector to improve the situation of the citizens in relation to a situation. This report was filed on March 15th and drew attention to one thing where the Citizen's Protector found not to exist, did not pass regulations to regulate the damage recovery process and to allocate funds to citizens for the construction and repair of housing damaged in natural disasters and other accidents. This is what many citizens today are interested in, who in these floods have lost all their assets, without a roof over their heads. We heard last week, when it came to government issues, that some legal regulations, which are being done, date back to the last century. If we had previously paid attention to this deficit, which was observed by the Ombudsman, we could be more efficient and quality in solving the problems of tens of thousands of citizens. In this regard, the other recommendations contained in this and other reports should be considered. I mean, it seems to me that we all agree here, that our administration has not been reformed and that it is the source of a number of citizens' problems. Although we hear from the report that the state at the highest level, at the level of the ministries, is good, that the answers are always being sent, that it is based on the recommendations of the Citizens' Protector and the Information Commissioner, we all know that, but we have once again realized that public enterprises are absolutely not responding and acting, as someone said, as a state state. I hope that changes in the next period. I expect this government, through the announcement of a reform of state administration, of public enterprises, that we will see the effect very quickly through our behaviour towards these institutions. The report discusses a poor state in the media, a tabloidisation that has affected the Serbian media scene, that data from the investigation are found completely illegally and unauthorizedly in the media on the front pages, that disinformation and semi-information are thus placed, as well as that this is often used in political dealings with political inexperiences. This is particularly important because we have had opportunities to speak here, as well as to read in some previous reports, but unfortunately nothing has been done by the state, and then we can read these same views in the European Commission's report, as well as that their representative in Belgrade openly repeats the same sentences in the Citizens' Protector's report. Then, these days, we have had this opportunity, and from another international organisation, from the OSCE, a similar grudge for the situation in the media in RS, and it becomes a topic of political debate, debates where we fall into fire and various statements are made. In my opinion, the inappropriate reaction of the Prime Minister, who then came to a common position through a conversation with the OSCE representative, and what the state should do when such a grudge is being directed. Nor is this objection, which is here, to anyone from the government and the government policy, but the finding of a single phenomenon in society and the state, and for changing and eradicating these bad things is a government that has the sole authority and mechanisms to do certain things. In this regard, a government reaction is expected, and no one is accused of any illegal activity. What may have personally concerned me the most is what we heard today and from the Guardians of Citizens and it seems to me in the presentation of the Trustees, which is the conclusion that today in Serbia, unfortunately, political will and power of political will are above the institutions. I think that all of this should concern us because in some situations this political will moves society forward, makes us make a better and democratic society, if that political will is good and positive, and if it's a different society moving back and having negative consequences. What it looked like we all remember in the '90s and things that were happening back then, which I personally think they're repeating today. I want this discussion to be with the participation of all MPs of the ruling majority, and it seems to me that today is less than the usual largest parliamentary group, but it doesn't have to mean anything. I want us all to be concerned about what we heard from the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, in my opinion, the tragic fact that more than 40 women lost their lives during the previous year as victims of domestic violence. I think we should all imagine that number and do everything in our power to reduce it. These are great tragedies for entire families, for children, for parents, and I think that as a state we should set ourselves the goal of making this phenomenon appear as soon as possible, it can never be eradicated, but to dramatically reduce this number, and I think that for the state of Serbia, this number of lives lost is too large and that something must be done dramatically. What I want to say in the end was that there was no exposure, and the Guardian of Citizens and Commissioners for Information and the Trustees for Gender Equality, because it is not their place to talk about it today, which is a phenomenon in the previous few days where it is under parole that the cost of state and budget should be reduced by one blow to these institutions, that the Protector of Citizens is not allowed to extend the contracts with 19 employees, that the Trustee of Information and the Protector is being disabled or the use of the vehicle is being restricted. It is necessary to introduce some criteria in which these costs can be reduced and certainly there is space there too, because we all have to save these parliaments, and that is where we all agree on these institutions, but most of all, the government, and it seems to me the most public enterprises. I think it was done in a bad way and one bad message was sent. If you, by a third or how many Protectors, reduce the number of people under savings, then some statements are made that he has no hearing that at a time when we all have to give up something to help the most vulnerable carry out a kind of political attack on that institution, then in a conversation with the prime minister, everything is said to be fine. I want to believe that we're going to overcome this problem, but I don't want every time that topic comes to the agenda, and it comes once a year in the nature of the job, repeating this scenario, and I want to believe that it wasn't the idea to put pressure on the Guardian now so that he might behave differently in the next period, so he doesn't come back at some point in this situation. Our parliamentary group will support these reports. We believe that the work to strengthen independent institutions is good, necessary, that they, and I have witnessed almost from the existence of how difficult it was to accept their existence, to support and I have been in a position that some of these bodies as politicians in the government have not always responded, but I do not think that we should look through this prism of our political commitment and that we only appreciate the work on the basis of whether we are power or opposition rather than working on strengthening institutions because it is not by chance that they exist and, as many of my colleagues have said, in much more developed democracies and countries that have a much longer democratic tradition, because there is always this tendency of the state, whether these are some bodies or individuals who want to abuse their position and that Parliament through these institutions, by strengthening their roles and their capacities helps to make their citizens' choices easier for their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2590	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the DS, Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear guests, both Members of the People and the People's Parliament, certainly we are not just talking about these three reports today. Whenever it comes to independent regulatory bodies, there's a lot more to be said than reports. We are also talking today about the rule of law and the existence of the rule of law and human rights, the stability of institutions, how our country should look and what it looks like today. The importance of these reports and the importance of the topics we are talking about today should not be particularly highlighted. Whenever we talk about human rights, whenever we talk about equality, whenever we talk about equal chances, about banning discrimination, about the position of persons with disabilities, children's rights, gender equality, hate speech, all of these are things that are among the most important political issues in our country, even though perhaps citizens don't recognize them as something that affects their everyday lives, or at least not to the extent that they recognize economic issues. They should be convinced that these things are the topics and principles on which every modern democratic state is based, and Serbia certainly should be such a state. Through all three reports, I think we can draw one conclusion, I think even all three of them have said it, and that's a sentence that the situation is improved, but there's still a lot of work to be done and there are still shortcomings that need to be addressed. Mr. Čotric said one thing that sounded strange – that the reports were balanced. In that sense, well, there's a better situation somewhere, somewhere there's not so much respect for human rights, and this is an area where we can't let the reports be, to use his expression -- balanced. As long as we talk about the political will to enforce the laws, as long as we say that someone has received assurances from this or that state official that the law will be applied and respected, as long as we talk about that citizens do not know why discrimination is bad, which is why it is forbidden, as long as we talk about whether they do not recognise discrimination or think that some human beings have fewer rights than other human beings just because they don't like the way they think, live, function or don't like their other dissent properties, the situation will not be good until then, and any of these topics will deserve the highest level of our attention. I'll take the same order our guests here have suggested reports. When it comes to the Report of the Trustee of Equality, she knows how much struggle we fought together to achieve equality, not just the two of us, but many of the people's MPs from the last call, the pre-last and this one. That's one of the fights that never end, and that's one of those moving targets, and we're hardly ever going to get to saying that we have full equality. Certainly discrimination is not, even if it is open discrimination, more of a major issue in our society. These are the situations in which the competent institutions react, the courts respond. People have already learned to recognize it and it is no longer as burning a subject as it used to be. What we have a problem with, however, is hidden discrimination, is discrimination that can't be seen and which is so much, much more dangerous. The Commissioner, as well as two other promoters, has raised one problem that concerns the non-application of the recommendations given by independent regulatory bodies by state authorities. Given that I was dealing with this myself, and that this particular example was highlighted as one of the basic problems of the recommendation she made two years ago, which still hasn't changed, I will once again talk about discrimination in textbooks, about stereotypes that are imposed in textbooks, because this is the basic beginning of all discrimination. I brought with me something that I do not know whether the MPs had the opportunity to see, and it is a textbook approved by the Ministry of Education, a textbook in crime, in which the following sentences are being spoken of: “In practice, there are rare cases that the rape victim did not contribute to the creation of a crime. Then her contribution to the creation of the crime is most often seen in reckless behavior, lonely movements of dark streets, suburbs and meadows in late evening hours, hitchhiking, which objectively led her to become a victim of a crime, e.g. rape or robbery. A woman’s behavior often creates, contributes or accepts a sexually tense situation. Active and passive behavior damaged in such a situation affects the wrong assessment of the perpetrator. The damaged and offender in their own way perceive and evaluate the same objective circumstances. A woman’s behavior allows the creation of a situation in which she, based on judgment, was obliged to predict the possibility of confrontation. The woman’s provocation may be unconscious when she does not understand the provoking character of her behavior as a result of her inexperience or unbelief. The motives that drive a woman to enter and accept a situation in which she does not want sexual contact with a person she does not know enough can be the neurotic character of her emotional instability and dissatisfaction, resulting in a strong, even pervasive desire for emotional and pure spiritual closeness with the imagination created by an ideal man, agreeing easily to situations she deems romantic and the other side as sexually charged. It would be possible for such damages to determine the existence of sexual and emotional immatureness. “ This was approved by the Ministry of Education to be a textbook taught by students in the subject of crime. This is a shame. There's a lot of cases like that. For years, I talked about the parable “Silent Language, ” which I do not know how familiar it is with the MPs. It's a folk narrative where a snake gives its main hero a gift to talk to animals. He's got all kinds of events going on. Among other things, his mare tells him that his wife is pregnant. He comes home, laughs, and his wife asks him several times why he's laughing. He won't answer, he comes out, and the cock comes back to the house and takes the stick and beats up his pregnant wife with it. It is a folk parable and certainly no one has a problem with the fact that our folk literature is being processed in the framework of basic school material. But what is the problem is the question of how the parable is handled. Believe it or not, students in elementary schools are asked and the question is asked in the following way - why did the wife of the chief hero of the German Language account deserve to get beat up? So the question was asked so that a woman could earn something to get beat up. The correct answer is because she's curious. The second question in the same illustration is – what are the virtues of the hero of the parable “Noney Language”? The correct answers are courage and curiosity. It means that a woman deserves to get beaten because she's curious, and a man is adorned by the virtue of curiosity. These are just some of the examples and this isn't the only subject, everyone knows how women are shown in textbooks, etc. We have in Novi Pazar, as far as I've heard, opportunities for school to learn games that play girls and boys, etc. The textbooks are a big problem, the quality of the textbook is a big problem. I think it's the task of all of us, and I will certainly, as chairman of the Committee on Science and Education, devote myself to this problem, because it is something that is extremely important. When it comes to the Citizens' Protector's Report, we've had opportunities to hear that some things are improved, and some are still to be worked on. I think it's the task of all of us to help the Citizens' Protector to detect all of those things as a problem and to make recommendations actually apply. In his report, he spoke of the absence of the so - called so - called one. the depolitization of the state administration, that it didn't happen. I think that all of our citizens and how are aware that the announced departmentalisation of public enterprises has nothing, but that citizens are directly placed in an unequal position just because they are not members of the parties in power when they are employed. Employers continue to avoid their legal contractual obligations regarding the orderly payment of earnings and other remuneration of employees, as well as the timely payment of contributions for compulsory health, pension and disability insurance. He also spoke of the scandalous application of the Solidarity Tax Act, which we, as DS MPs, have warned of, which is now being warned by the Citizens' Protector. Obviously, there is no will to accept that the law itself was a mistake and that the law itself was a mistake. I do not know how many MPs have responded to the call of the NGO "Right for Moms" to meet with a young mother. Those who did so certainly had to hear a lot of them about the way they get paid. Not only are young maternity families damaged by the application of the Solidarity Tax Act, which suddenly exceeds 60,000 dinars of tens of thousands when their incomes are paid in a few months, and is also taxed as a solid tax. That's what happens to young scientists who, for example, tax the funds that are paid to publish books. So, not the revenue they have from selling books, but the funds they get for publishing books, it's all neatly taxed, etc. The trustee specifically warns of what we have been doing because of changes in tax laws, which state the obsolescence of determining the collection and settlement of outstanding contributions to compulsory social security. The rights of the workers are seriously compromised. These are people who believe that they have conditions for retirement leave and when they apply, they are told that they actually do not meet those conditions, because someone once did not pay for the contributions. They have so far been able to make these contributions in some way, thanks to the laws that this ruling majority alone in the second assembly of parliament adopted, they no longer have the means to exercise those rights. These are all some things we've had a chance to listen to. The public defender speaks a lot about media freedoms, that is something that is extremely important. Sam points out cases that other MPs have also talked about that the railway between the police prosecution's security structures and individual media seem to be inextricably unbreakable at this point, which is extremely dangerous. And in the media, confidential data appear from the investigation, from detention, from hearings, are drawn up in advance for people who have not even been charged, in a very sensational way also discussed on the report is written about numerous topics. I'm just going to remind you of the case of the mayor of the King, the former mayor of the King who was arrested, who was charged with misusing the funds intended for the restoration of the Kings after the earthquake. At that time, there was hardly any media that did not call this man a criminal, a monster, even a police director completely outside his jurisdiction, and this is what the media reported neatly, horrifying how there are people who in this way intend to profit from a human accident. When none of this turned out to be true, when all of them were released, because it turned out that not only were citizens not damaged but more works were done on the contrary than were planned. That's when nothing happened. That's when none of those tabloids apologized to those people. At that time, no one wrote that the opposite was established, and apparently it is a practice that brings many others and that really creates an atmosphere in our society that is certainly not good, not so much for politicians, but for citizens. Unfortunately, the Citizens' Protector's report speaks of a case that is extremely problematic, an example of a family that lost its child, which has been exposed for weeks to the unprecedented hare of both sides of a tabloid. What is particularly worrying is not only the respect of the laws of these tabloids, which in a very strange way, I would say, with the blessing of the competent authorities, manage to avoid their laws of prescribed obligation, but also that at that moment regulatory bodies not established by law but by news associations have not responded to such an obvious example of the lynch. The citizen's protector in his report also talks about his relationship with the media, about the introduction of the citizen's institution in the media where he found one thing, which is that the first conflict on which I think counterpart Nestorovic told me was created in the case of a small graduation when he had an attitude that was different from the position of the government of the Republic of Serbia. This brings us to one topic that we seem to be talking about today, which is that one attempt to suppress every species, silence, every kind of critical thought, every kind of criticism where anyone who dares to express their opinion that is contrary to what is the official policy of the Government of Serbia must be aware that in one way or another will be exposed to such a kind of negative campaign. A few days ago he is the Guardian of Citizens, I would say very bravely rise up in defense by the Constitution of guaranteed freedom of opinion and freedom of expression. What follows is not a worthy country that predicates to be democratic and calls itself democratic. In those few days, we had the opportunity to hear the Prime Minister call the Citizens' Protector the so-called so-called. an independent institution. We had a chance to hear the OSCE was lying. We had the opportunity to hear that university professors were stupid and we had the opportunity to see a campaign on the Internet where SNS activists participated very actively, which reminds the campaign in which Nata Mesarovic, president of the Supreme Cassation Court, was replaced, and a judge was brought to her place with an outdated case of pedophilia. That's all the things we need to talk about. If it is true there is no censorship in Serbia. If your question will be – tell me a reporter who was called by anyone in power and told him not to publish anything. So let's talk about why there's auto-censorship, because auto-censorship is not without censorship. It won't be that journalists themselves censor what they wanted to write, it won't be that they like to download texts from the portal. It's obvious that he realizes he'll go just like anyone else who dares speak critically. When we talk about the Commissioner's report on information of public importance, what is the main problem, he said about his report on the Committee, are public enterprises. The best example is the example of Ethyhad since September, it takes our struggle to publish the contract. From January, February to the end of the contract's campaign is gone. Let's show that institutions are stronger than the lack of political will to apply the law, whatever the lack of political will to apply the law may be. I thank you all and invite you to work together on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2592	The replica was reported by the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2593	Mr. Chairman, for the sake of truth, it's nice to listen to such understanding of democratic flows, institution building, independence, it's nice to listen. The truth is somewhere on the other side. In the previous meeting of the National Assembly, the Administrative Committee to which I chair issued its consent under Article 6(3). Law amending and supplementing the Law on the budgetary system for employment for 373 people. Of which in Fiscal Council 10, DRI 21, Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection 10, Protector of Citizens 32, Anti-Corruption Agency 173. All these requests were submitted and the approvals given under the law. However, now the same people from the same parliamentary group that she belonged to and a colleague who spoke before me were when it came to those demands instead of supporting those requirements, instead of voting to get as much capacity as possible, to get as many employees as possible so that they could do their job or not come to the session, or they were abstentioned, or they voted against. What's older? What's better? What's the matter? That we're making a declaration about something like that public, because it's nice, it's democratic, and when we apply it all we have to show by voting, by discussing on the board, what's going on. Either they are not coming to a session of the Administrative Committee, or they are voting against, or at best they are MPs, unfortunately they are not members of the parliamentary group now, are not voting elections, or the results of the vote have not allowed them to be in the DS parliamentary group, but have been abstained. I don't know what politics is, then. Declarative commitment to independence, to strengthen the capacity of independent regulatory bodies, and then when we get into a situation that we can jointly strengthen these capacities, something like that is not working. So what's the real DS policy? What you've been voting to confirm is not in your best interest that these capacities are being strengthened or just now from the presentation of colleague Jerkov?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2594	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2595	I'm advertising a breach of Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. We've just heard that some things that have nothing to do with this agenda point, especially when it comes to censorship, and when it's asked for an example, it says -- don't ask us to set an example, because then there's some kind of self-censorship unlike the current government, examples of censorship, previous furniture, and how there are, these du constituencies were interrupted, in fact banned, so at night we could watch the Assembly, and of course we're not talking about the former, though, president of the party, thanks to the media monopoly that had absolutely censored any news that could be against him or against DS. So I would really ask you to react to these things because this doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2596	The word is a folk letter from Gordana Komic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2597	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I believe that you have injured Article 27 and Article 26. who obliges you to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to maintain the dignity of the National Assembly, because you have not once warned the MPs that they have no right to call other MPs for the way they vote, that they have no right to disqualify the political views of other MPs, making an argument in favor of what they want to avoid, to say. I understand that each chairman has the right, in the context of what he considers to be the order of the sitting, to allow such an insult to the basic constitutional, by the Constitution of the defined jurisdiction of every MP, and in that sense, if it is a practice, to me, even if I am happy, since I am enough in this House, then I will consider that, next time I speak, who of the MPs who currently have a mandate did not vote for the laws, who of the MPs never came to the meetings and who of the MPs had the integrity that should have had under the Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly. Considering that the tolerance that you believe is necessary to listen to the will of one member of the People's Parliament to scold the constitutional powers of other MPs, even under the Constitution and the law, even if you feel that this can be allowed. I will still respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the National Assembly, under the law of each of us MPs is written in both documents. I don't want you to plead, but I think it's important that he remain in the National Assembly's minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2598	Thank you. The People’s Parliament of the Master Alexander Jerkov appeared in the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2599	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Babic asked me what DS policy is, I think there is really no need to explain it, this policy is obvious when it comes to independent regulatory bodies precisely in the establishment of these bodies and the legislative framework that defined their jurisdiction and the constant struggle to improve their position, whenever there are representatives or those who will be proposing within the next item of the agenda – the DRI, the Anti-Corruption Agency. There's no need to explain it further because that policy, you know, Mr. Granny, has been the same for some years now... (President: I would ask you not to speak directly to the People's MP, but to me as chairman. )......................................................................................................... There is no need to explain it to Mr. Babic, nor to the citizens, because that policy has already been the same for some years. However, what Mrs. Comic said was absolutely correct. Let us not remember who voted in the previous period, that we do not remember who declared it, after his catharsis supported European integration and voted against all the laws of the European law package, because it will not take us anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2600	Thank you. The SNS parliamentary group head, Mr. Zoran Babic, came to the floor, and that concludes the cycle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2601	Thank you. I do not question, of course, the right of every MP to his opinion and the right to vote and how he will vote, in no case at all, but there is inconsistencies in public speaking, on the one hand and the struggle to strengthen the capacity of independent regulatory bodies, and then come to the 71st session of the Committee where you decide to strengthen the capacity of trustees for equality and to be abstention when 10 new employees are admitted. What's there then? Who's inconsistencies here? Who's hypocritical? On the other hand, this attitude towards independent regulatory bodies has proved, unfortunately, that the Citizens' Protector was established by law in our society in 2005. However, what closes the ears when someone fights for independent regulatory bodies like that is that the first report on which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been declared was a 2010 report, although the Citizens' Protector has been neatly delivering those reports and has had for every year. What happened in the meantime? Why didn't the government and the regime then want to hear it? Why did the National Assembly not declare itself, but rather wait five or six years for the first reports to arrive in 2011? Why, if the Citizens' Protector was established, why in 2006 did the National Assembly not declare these reports in 2005? Then who humiliated independent regulatory bodies? Who did not want opinions to be heard, and what did these people then say about our society and our shortcomings?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2602	Thank you. A mandated representative of the SNS, MP Marija Obradovic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2603	Before I present the reports, which is my priority today, and certainly, to my colleagues from the SNS, it is necessary for us to get to the public with the importance of these reports, and certainly, I wanted the public to see that here in this assembly we are all in the mood to give each other our hand, we in front of the ruling party, or all MPs in this Parliament, as someone who can control the work of the Government and, of course, representatives of these independent regulatory bodies and that we all make the most of our efforts and make movements in Serbian society, above all, in the minds of citizens. Before these reports, I must refer to some of the allegations that were heard during this afternoon in the National Assembly, because I cannot allow the ratings to be heard here, that they were inappropriate reactions of the prime minister following reactions, correspondence from certain international influential organizations. What are the criteria for determining that an inappropriate reaction is? Is it inappropriate when a man who is head of the state, accused of certain actions, and is it inappropriate to say, we really don't stand behind it, the government doesn't stand behind it? Is it inappropriate to say – you have no arguments, you give without proof of a certain claim and you get to know the public in this way with certain processes in the country? It's very hard to say what's inappropriate at that point. The least I can say is that his obligation was to respond to the accusations at that time of the OSCE's statement. Of course, do not forget the follow-up to the story – a very quick meeting was agreed on which a constructive agreement was expected, as well as whether there was indeed a reason for this type of reaction from the international organisation and whether one of the members of the government did something about what he was accused of. So, we gave our hand, let's talk, what's the problem? It was the first reaction in which the prime minister, in my personal opinion, could condemn me, had this obligation to react when we were convicted of something that there was no argument. When we talk about the lack of presence of SNS MPs, and that could be heard in this presentation, that's the last thing we should have said today. At least at any moment in this room, I think there are 80, 90 to 100 SNS deputies. It's very unserious and rude to say that we're not enough. It may be better to check through the footage how the MPs of some other opposition parties appeared in the O.R. only when the authorities spoke to them. Before that, they didn't care who was following or who was talking. We've been here all along, I say, us hundreds who follow all the exposure, both authorized and representative of independent regulatory bodies. It should also be said to the public, because when something from here is said, citizens are convinced that it is true, and sometimes especially MPs have the power to speak well and manipulate words, so one of the citizens can be confused. In the follow-up to Mr Babic's discussion, which spoke about the various arches that certain opposition parties and MPs use depending on the daily political moves and the point is exactly that - I will criticise you for everything that comes to mind and that sounds good, and I hope that you will not return it with the same measure or you won't notice. An example of the media link, opposition MPs prefer it, but always citing only examples for opposition politicians. I have not heard that they have cited an example of a media link that mentions one of the people in power, and certainly people who have taken responsibility to move things to better people who are exposed to the media link and are less talked about in Serbia. When we were listening to a study on unsuspecting language, I must say, it was absolutely not a proper introduction. This is yet another small example, and I will no longer hold back on the abuse of MPs' position on how to interpret a literary work, in this case "Negusti Language", in our educational institutions. It depends exclusively on the lecturer, the teacher, the teacher, the teacher. He was left at large to determine which kind of interpretation he would use, and the answers you were asking, the questions and answers you were giving, saying that they were pre-accurate or incorrect, are not correct. All those examples you've been telling me about haven't helped me understand these reports better and meet halfway how to actually implement these recommendations from the report, but I see them as a daily political conflict in Serbia's parliament. I'd like to mention one more thing, because it's really necessary, first of all, for the people who are really present on the Internet scene and in all our media. Commenting on blogs and websites has become part of our daily life, especially a large number of young people in Serbia. It's unserious that you put in a context that a large number of people from the SNS, young people, that's how it comments. You've manipulated the whole situation again. Remember that 49% of people in Serbia support SNS, that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic has almost 70% support, and when you take those figures into account, then you see that it is perfectly normal for half of those people who comment on the networks to comment on the way people in SNS think and vice versa, that there is another half that thinks differently or condemns a certain thing. So we have different attitudes. It's perfectly normal after these numbers about popularity. This has taken too long. I want to talk about these reports that I think have earned extraordinary attention to the public and institutions that should further assist the work of these independent bodies. The Citizens' Protector's Report said that respect for human and minority rights in Serbia was not satisfactory in 2013. The most vulnerable groups of citizens remain extremely poor, children, women, persons with disabilities, members of national minorities, persons deprived of freedom, refugees and displaced and LGBT populations. As the biggest obstacles and challenges in achieving citizens' rights, the inefficient judiciary, the power of political will over the rule of law, weak institutions, atrophied economies, not reformed administration and tabloidisation of the media are listed. It's all right. It's all right. We can't say that none of this is true and that someone invented this sitting at the coffee shop at home, but I want to point out one more thing. Jankovic noted there has been significant progress last year, such as improving the right to health care and providing personal documents to members of national minorities. He also praised the adoption of the Convention on the fight against violence against women and specific protocols on the basis of which control was facilitated, or whether domestic violence could be prevented and who was responsible for it. We in the SNS really welcome all the activities and efforts of the Protectors in protecting and improving human and minority freedoms and rights. The adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Minority Councils created the conditions to ensure the legality and regularity of the elections for these Councils, but we certainly call on the Government to continue to amend the necessary provisions of this law in order to address the perceived shortcomings. At the same time, we also support the continuation of the adoption of appropriate regulations and measures to achieve the objectives set out in the Strategy for improving the situation of Roma. When it comes to progress in protecting women from violence, by confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family, very important preconditions have been created and strong political will has been shown to give priority in this segment of human rights at risk. We need to comply with the current rules with this international document, and to this end we call on the IMP and, as chairman of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, I will advocate that once every three months this Ministry delivers a report to the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of the National Assembly, and certainly also to our Committee, on action taken in accordance with the Specific Protocol on the Treatment in Cases of Violence against Women, in the Family and in Partnership Relations. It is very important that the government and the competent ministry, in accordance with the Law on Gender Equality, ensure the functioning of gender equality mechanisms and units of local self-government in order to avoid unequal application of the law. The realisation and protection of the rights of LGBT persons, in particular the provision of mechanisms for the application of existing laws and the promotion of tolerance towards the LGBT population, are topics on which we all have to work highly committed, but also within the framework of state institutions. The reform of the judiciary has not led to a sensitive improvement in the state sector, said Citizen Protector Jankovic. We will all agree that one of the main problems is unequal court practice. The main objectives of public administration reform, I quote, depolitisation and the professionalisation of public administration, have not yet been achieved. More than 40% of citizens' complaints refer to poor administration, pointless procedures and their postponement indefinitely. We'll all agree to that. It's something we have to work on together. We rightly expect that this recent set of judicial laws will provide for a better organisation of the work of judicial authorities, easier access to justice and respect for the right to justice and within a reasonable time. We support the proposal as early as possible to build a normative framework to protect alarmers. We still need to work intensively on systemic changes through the construction and strengthening of institutions in order to improve the rule of law, and in order to indeed achieve significant shifts in the reform of the state administration, it is very important that we adopt appropriate regulations and other direct measures in order to truly realise and achieve those objectives of the Public Administration Reform Strategy of January this year. One of the most important priorities of the Republic of Serbia is the integration of the public administration process with European integration, but so that it is two mutually conditional processes. The report on the implementation of the Law on free access to information from public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2013, submitted by the Commissioner Sabic, contains actions taken by the authorities in the application of the law, as well as data on the actions and expenditures of the trustees. Personally, I would like to congratulate the Commissioner on the level of democratic control by the public, as well as the protection of citizens' rights to privacy. It was really impossible to imagine until recently in Serbia, but things are going better, too. Although this report is not the most brilliant, advance shifts are noticeable, above all in society's consciousness, citizens' consciousness, and that's somewhere the biggest shift. It's the hardest thing to change in Serbia. That's where you really did your pioneer assignment. Serbian Progressive Party MPs are aware that there is still room to improve the rules on free access to information of public importance and protection of personal data, so it is necessary to access and prepare the rules, although so far it has not been done, regardless of your previous and previous recommendations for the application of the Data Privacy Act. It is particularly important to improve respect for privacy rights in the security sector, electronic communications. There is a necessary action plan for the implementation of the Personal Data Protection Strategy in the shortest time and of course, we call on the Government to do so. The Commissioner's report assessed significant progress in the field of protection and affirmation of the right to free access to information of public importance and the right to protection of personal data. But indeed the key condition of further progress would be the change of practice, the slow and passive relationship of competent authorities to citizens' demands. We therefore strongly support these recommendations of the Commissioner, especially in the part where the need for the Government to enforce final decisions of the Commissioner is suggested, and to initiate procedures through the competent ministries to determine the responsibility for work gaps, both individual authorities and officials individually. As stated in the proposal for a conclusion, as regards the examination of this report, the Assembly is obliged, i.e. we have proposed that the Assembly undertakes to create a consistent legal system in the area of free access to information of public importance and protection of personal data in its legislative activity to ensure compliance with basic principles in all areas, especially when indicated by the Trustee. We should stress that the government has an obligation to create conditions for full independence in the work of the trustees as soon as possible, by providing appropriate spatial and other material conditions, so that the trustee can work at full capacity and this is a topic that has been going on for a long time. Some shifts have been made, but certainly these technical material preconditions must be provided. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality Nevena Petrusic said in her report that the number of complaints of citizens has increased by 25%, that health conditions appear most frequently as the basis of discrimination, and as the most common area of discrimination on labour and employment. It also pointed out the need to establish a single system of data collection on cases of discrimination and this annual report of the trustee is indeed comprehensive. Data indicate the need for continuous education in the field of anti-discrimination regulations. Also, I want to strongly support all activities of the trustee in countering discrimination and improving equality. It is not an easy job, especially in Serbia, where we slave to patriarchal and some traditional stereotypes. I would like to conclude that an improved legislative framework for the achievement of equality and prohibition of discrimination in the field of labour, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, then persons with mental disorders and the protection of patients' rights. Once again, despite the positive shifts recorded, in all three reports we are talking about today, there is still a large space for further improvement of regulations, especially in the part of bringing our laws into line with EU legislation. And here there is no action plan to implement the Strategy on Prevention and Protection against Discrimination, with the provision of funds for its implementation. There is no need to forget the timely preparation of strategic documents from this area, which expire in 2015. It's something that's waiting for us, and with a large amount of work we don't need to forget about. I mean, even though we all know it well, it's still the most discriminated Roma, women, persons with disabilities and sexual minorities, who face hate speech. So together with the government, we have to work on creating preconditions for making the credentials more fully realised, especially in groups where multiple discrimination is being made. When it comes to gender equal representation, we should not stress that as MPs, we will strongly argue that this is achieved at all levels, especially given that the Serbian Parliament is a sacred example of gender equality. I support the formation of the regional offices of the trustees. It is important to strengthen these activities. This requires, among other things, new spatial capacity for the work of the trustee's professional service. The independent authority has requested, due to lack of adequate space for the work of Belgrade's reception office, that adequate space be provided without delay, so that the trustee can make direct contact with citizens and citizens and provide legal information and advice. Visiting the private premises of the trustee in Belgrade, that is, this body, I am aware of the urgency of this request and, this way, I appeal to the Serbian government to overcome problems related to the lack of space of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. All Members of the SNS, especially through the work of the Assembly Committees, will perform their control role and monitor the work of the authorities in respect of the recommendations given in these reports. I must point out that despite the full recommendations for correction and some negative assessments of certain areas of the state system, all three reports also contain praise in the significant shifts and progress of Serbia in the areas in which they are treated. I will remind you that even the most developed countries, European leaders, face similar criticism on the path of full democratisation and improvement of the administration system that should serve its citizens, building a system of new moral and ethical values. Serbia really wants to change for the better. The awareness of citizens is changing. It's a long-term process, and the media has to help. One of the fellow MPs said – and the educational system, but above all, by promoting the activities of these three institutions that report today, which is what we are considering. I wish Commissioners and Mrs. Petrusic and Mr. Sabic and Mr. Jankovic and my associates much patience and goodwill in the business that lies ahead of their institutions, but let us not forget, and in front of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2604	The word has a National MP Meso Omerovic, as a proponent of the conclusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2605	Thank you. As president of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and Proposer Representatives, as the Committee has proposed these conclusions that we are discussing, I would like to welcome all those present in the hall, particularly those whose annual reports for the past year have been considered on boards, and on the basis of these reports we have prepared certain conclusions. All three reports were discussed by the Committee and what I have to do with special satisfaction to say here, all the decisions and all the conclusions we have made and which are now on the agenda were adopted unanimously. The Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, which consists of representatives of all political parties, has recognised, concluded and seen that the representatives of the Citizens' Protector, the Trustee for the availability of information of public importance and the protection of personal data and the Trustees for the Protection of Equality are true allies, are sincere in what the primary task that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have entrusted us with, is to take care of the legality and application of laws relating to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which concerns their human rights. In this context, I am pleased to see, through today's discussions, that all the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups who have also spoken about these conclusions, in general who have looked back on the parts of the annual reports that we have discussed, see exactly what I am talking about. I believe that after a few years, by building these institutions, we will be in a position to work together in the space and field of what is called the primary interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have reported for one simple reason, not only to comment on what is significant about the unanimous adoption of the conclusions on the committee I am chairing, but also on the fact that, of all 250 MPs, we have only had three amendments from the Democratic Action Party to the report and the conclusions of the Committee on Human, Minority Rights and Gender Equality. Since even in their presentation, and especially in the amendments that we're talking about, because they're an integral part of this, they mention things that aren't appropriate. It was said that the committee in charge in the proposal for these conclusions ignores the identified problems and that it demeans the problems that minorities face and is linguistically trying to cloud the facts set out in the report. It's just that it's incorrect and it's one charge that doesn't stand, because I've repeated on many occasions that all the conclusions were adopted unanimously. As a representative of the promoter, I am obliged to reject the amendments offered here in the plenary session, because at point 1 of the proposal for a regular annual report by the Citizens' Protector for 2013 in which MPs Sulejman Ugljanin, Enis Imamović and Sabina Disdarevic suggest that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2606	Please don't comment on the amendments now. I gave my word, even though you had no right to do so. Please finish your address. You had the right to finally turn around, not right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2607	I have the right, Mr. Chairman, as an authorised representative...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2608	You had the right to pre-authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2609	We're having a unique discussion, a unique search.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2610	I'm telling you again, you've been an MP for a long time, and you know that in this right you have no right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2611	How are we gonna talk about the amendments? These are the only amendments that have been submitted to the conclusions we are talking about. The only one.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2612	You did not exercise the right you had at the beginning, you can use it at the end after the order of MPs by signing up for the word. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2613	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of independent regulatory bodies, I would like to join these positive estimates that the predecessors have made regarding the reports we are discussing today. Of course, I will try to supplement certain areas with my remarks, above all in the area of achieving the rights of national minorities, when it comes to the Albanian national minority. It is right to give room for official use of the language and letters of national minorities. The problem is with certain municipalities where the official use of language and letters of national minorities has not yet been introduced, with the need to add that an even bigger problem is when the official language is introduced in a particular local self-government, there is a problem in realisation. There are even greater problems in achieving the provisions of this law, when it comes to state authorities. At this point, the most powerful in the area of the judiciary is that because of the unpreparedness to conduct this right consistently in practice and in court proceedings, along with a Serbian and Cyrillic letter, the language of the minority and the corresponding letter is applied. When it comes to the Albanian national minority, it is even more difficult because of the ethnic structure of courts, judicial institutions. I have repeatedly raised the problem here that it is only a symbolic representation of Albanians, when it comes to judges of the basic court, without talking about higher cases, where there are no judges of Albanian nationality at all, but also in many judicial institutions there are no translators, which further makes it difficult to implement this legal provision, as well as the whole of this law on official use of language and letter. This problem is also important, which the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality pointed out in particular. When it comes to the right of citizens to register their personal names and last names, which is in contrast with the report by the Protectors, who generally says it works well, and in practice there are very serious problems. It's not just that example of a Romanian national parent. In Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji there are far more serious problems, although the law is clear here. Since most Albanians are born in a crow hospital and there are plenty of them in the impudent hospital, the law is not implemented there, as it is first written in a Cyrillic letter, and it can be in Albanian language and a letter in brackets. When it translates into getting IDs, documents, then only the first version goes, and then there's a name and name deformation because of the difference in the alphabet. This is a problem that has not been solved for a long time, and there have also been regulations that have been illegal, anti-constitutional, which have reflected negatively in practice. In addition to this problem, it is worth mentioning this issue of national councils. I agree with the conclusion that a lot of provisions are not implemented in practice, but not just because of problems with individual local self-governments, but also with state authorities. On this occasion, I asked the MP's question to the Ministry of Education for a few times when it comes to educational inspection, which often does not allow law not to be respected in the field, and then, in many schools, there are confusing situations because the law does not allow for the powers of national councils to be exercised. Surely it should be the next time, because this one, which we have now had, we have not had this problem, that certain irregularities or contradictions are eliminated and that what the law provides, when it comes to national councils, are being implemented until the end. (President: Time.) ) I felt it was necessary that the issue of discrimination against the National Council of Albanians should also be mentioned in the reports, because it is unacceptable that due to the incomplete signature of the population of suffering... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2614	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2615	The Honored Chairman, representatives of regulatory bodies, discussed on Monday at a session of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government the reports of all independent regulatory bodies and the report of the Citizens' Protectors, who, through the presentation of all those activities, gave one principle assessment of the state and quality in relation to the achievement and protection of citizens' rights, given an assessment of the state of government and the public sector in general, which its annual report contains. I agree that root changes are necessary. I agree that systemic changes are necessary, if you want institutional changes that would be aimed at establishing the institutions that we need through and that I can say that some of them are already being built in the beginning, and all of them are about improving the rule of law in our country, and in the first place what is the priority of the Simeon Institute, which is protecting and achieving the rights of citizens. I think Mr. Jankovic is well aware of his humble opinion of the work of the Guardian of Citizens. We've had opportunities to exchange some attitudes in the previous session, and also in this session. At the beginning of the presentation, you said one thing, that the judiciary is a basic system of protection of law, I will agree with you only to put an end to it and add – in those countries where the judiciary works perfectly, and that is not the case with us, because every reform of the judiciary, as I usually say, destroys this judiciary, and only afterwards does it need to be built. The confirmation that the judiciary is not, unfortunately, I think it should be, as you said, is the fact that 24,000 citizens have spoken to you through a play. When the Institute of the Protectors addresses 24,000 citizens, it just says that we are completely institutionally destroyed, if we want to be restored and addressed to you to that extent, and you're talking about thousands, it says that citizens in our country have no trust, no institutions, nor in the judicial system that I believe has begun to build up. Looks like the exception here is becoming a rule. I think that you, or an independent regulatory body, are the Protector of citizens and an independent regulatory body is the last branch of protection of citizens' rights in every civilised society, and so it is everywhere in every regulated country, and so it should be with us. When the number of complaints you receive is not temporary, it is not time-limited but it is continuous, it is constant and there is always this trend of year-to-year increase and day-to-day, and then it is actually an effective indicator of the institutions in our country, it speaks of their functionality or if you want dysfunction. You also said there was no political will to enforce the law. According to my humble belief on certain laws, there once was no law, sometimes now there will be no one, and sometimes there will be no one in the future. It's not just in the country of Serbia. It's in every country. I must point out that I would refer only to what you said, which is that very often there is no political will to enforce the law, but also to pass some laws that we need through. As far as fighting corruption is concerned, the monster of every society. We discussed it. These discrepancies of case law have been mentioned. I spoke in the past and expressed my disdain, but the fight against corruption, crime and all those monsters that enter every pore and every segment of society their results can't be seen right away. For as long as it took to poison society in general, it takes as long as it takes to eliminate them, in order for the result of that struggle to show their effectiveness. I want to say here at the tide that the Guardian of Citizens, and also the Trustee, made a recommendation to the MUP, and they were the ones who asked that the lists of evacuated persons be published from the flooded areas and on behalf of the DHSS and I express my personal name my consent, not because you asked the MUP to do so, because I mean, what you did in time. Well done. I think it deserves to be mentioned in this assembly. Finally, I will repeat what I said on the Committee on Justice, how best it is to detecunize a society of restitutions. If the best way to decriminalise a single society is to create and implement judicial reforms and create a rule of law, but also the comprehensive and rooted reform of the state-wide diameter and cadastre, which I find very necessary at this point in our country, then I think that you as the Protector of Citizens, but also all other independent regulatory bodies represent a sacred example in our country, you represent the best defense of the protection of citizens' rights. Since I have a little more time, I will try to take advantage of it and say that as far as the Commissioner's report on information of public importance and protection of personality data is concerned, I am absolutely in agreement and, of course, I will support these reports first of all with what Mr Sabic said on the Committee of Justice. First of all, I agree that new legal solutions are necessary, no changes and no additions are necessary because I like it when we change something to be completely new so that we do not come into a vicious circle of changes and complements in which there is never a beginning or end, in order first and foremost to bring these new legal solutions into line with existing European standards and then we can only talk about an existing and then a good relationship between the state and society towards privacy, and then we can only get back to creating a basis for what is now the biggest problem in practice, and how much I have followed your report and read and followed what you said is that in practice to live up to the execution of your decisions as a Trustee. In this same place, I will use one sentence to commend the Report of the Trustee on the Protection of Equality and those special reports delivered to the National Assembly in the last year and on my personal behalf and on behalf of the DHSS, and continue to do so, and it is always my pleasure to read your reports and discuss them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2616	Time. I would just like to give more information that the draftrs of the conclusion, in this case Committee President Meho Omerovic and Mr Petar Petrovic, can at any moment give their opinion on the course of the debate, although it is more convenient that, at the end of the day, when we are done with the list of speakers, they can turn around and have the right to turn around. Mr. Omerovicu, we with the longest internship in this assembly can sometimes learn something. People's MP Janko Veselinović came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2617	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished representatives of independent regulatory bodies, are here today in front of us the Report of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality for 2013, the Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2013, the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information From Public Meaning and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data for 2013. This is just to remind ourselves of what we are discussing and to repeat the assessment that my colleague said at the beginning of this debate, that it took a long time to look back in a quality way on all these reports because it is a lot of data and a lot of opportunities to point out the importance of these data, to make them commental, but also to have the public properly familiarize themselves with them. I don't want to thank you for what you're doing because it's your job. However, I could say that your work marks courage in times when in this country many who should be independent are silent about things that are very important to citizens and are dependent on the everyday life of citizens. I believe that your role is particularly important, especially in the situation where you speak and criticise, you point to the facts behind which the Government, the failures, the non-application of the law, etc., and with respect to the data we have heard today, that the head of that Government is a man who enjoys 70% of the citizens' trust. In that sense, your courage is certainly more significant, especially if we have in mind the fact that you are facing serious problems these days to continue working. I'll read only two statements you've made these days. First of Mr. Jankovic. He says: “The capacity of the service that I have is a serious blow. They claim that it is a reason for saving, but it is a waste of dust in the eyes." Isn't that right, Mr. Jankovic, you said that three days ago? Mr. Rodoljub Sabic said in the same sense: "The office of the Information Commissioner has also lost the required number of employees and without the right to an official car. If the rationalization of our administration is to begin by cutting and otherwise modest resources of human rights institutions, then it's very depressing. Our bigger problem is that there aren't enough people in the places where we need them, and where we don't need them, we have a huge concentration of party personnel. “ Is that right, Mr. Shabic, that's what you said three days ago? So, we have a problem with the threat of independent institutions, and that is, bringing these institutions to the government's leash, trying to commit to the government's leash, such as, say, done with the Public Service, not to count, when it was abolished, or when it was announced that the subscription would no longer be, so the serious percentage of citizens stopped paying the subscription and the second part paid. Here is the question for Mr Jankovic – who is now at risk? Public service is now on the budget and, of course, whoever is on the budget, uncertain for next year, has to take care of how and how they report to the citizens, and the public service is there to report to the citizens truthfully and objectively. I haven't heard anything in your report, Mr. Jankovic, and I don't think I've read anything in your report, and I think it deserves attention and I'd like to hear your comment, on the issues of pressure, the blackmail that is being carried out in the process of transposing the authorities and the topics concerning the ever-increasing purchase of committees and the purchase of votes in the elections. Democratic institutions are practically losing importance because votes can practically be bought on the day of the election at the market for this or that sum, depending on the capacity of participants in these elections, participants under quotes. On the other hand, it would be good, it's probably not the subject of the report, but it would be good if you did a comparative analysis of the situation in these areas. Let's say, health care, the protection of people with disabilities, the state of information, that you do a comparative analysis -- Serbia, other EU members, and that we can see where we are and whether we can even compare ourselves and whether we meet some criteria and if someone would read this report and not know which country it comes from, which country it is made for, might think it's a country, not to say it at the door, but close to the door of the EU. On the other hand, you said that 0% of the recommendations made by public companies. There is a question of the responsibility of the people who are at the head of these public enterprises. You said the tax administration was in the state. To tell you the truth, I would be pleased that they have such independence, especially when it comes to collecting income for which they are in charge. However, they are apparently in such a position when it comes to independent institutions to which they should provide some information. Someone mentioned, I think, by representatives of the positioning parties, the position of the Assembly and the MPs in light of the collapse of one pillar of power, therefore, the legislative authorities and in some way a distraction from the topical issues and a search for the responsible culprit in the MPs. Please, Mr. Jankovic, take this topic as an initiative to analyse in the next period whether it can be in some way through the threat of law, the threat of institutions that should be independent and which should make decisions, because more talk about drinking coffee in the Assembly. By the way, the presidents have coffee and water on the table, and the MPs have been suspended, so there is no equality. I don't mean the guests, the guests should definitely have coffee anyway. I'll say a few words on the subject from the report. It is truly a devastating fact, in the chapter "Born Equality", that more than 40 women lost their lives during 2013 in domestic violence. It is a devastating fact and this fact should be concerned and asked about these consequences and representatives of the executive authority, judicial and legislative. For the disabled, you said that there was an underdeveloped system of services and support services for people with disabilities in local communities, with which you could quite agree. It's a much broader topic, but I don't have enough time. It is very important for me to draw particular attention, given that the role of the media and the position of the media has been most discussed today, to the chapter that you have discussed the state of health and the role of citizens, the position of citizens in front of health institutions. It is said: “The right to health insurance and health care of a large number of employees and members of their families is currently not protected despite the existence of constitutional guarantees. A significant number of Serbian citizens do not receive timely and quality health care. Health care is not equally available to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially citizens living at a greater distance from administrative centres or rural areas. As in previous years, the position of health workers has been burdened with many problems. “ This in some way proves that we and your report have the worst health care in Europe. My colleague Marko Djurisic referred to the fact that we do not have adequate sublaws to settle the damages issue after the elementary disasters. This is written for 2013 and this is an adequate example of the situation that will be happening to us in the coming days. When we hear the citizens of Obrenovac say they don't know who to report to, or what to report, or when their house will be restored, so we don't even have a clear procedure for it. It is said: “The situation in the media is characterized by sensationalism and terrestrial curiosity. Essentially increasing tabloidisation of the media scene is objectively jeopardizing the basic rights to quick, objective and accurate information based on facts. A reckless race for circulation and ratings, and what is particularly important when it comes to the relationship between media and political and other centres of power, is noticeable by the worrying trend of media abuse in political and other campaigns. This is particularly expressed in actions against organised crime, with media announcing that an investigation is being conducted, accused of crime, and listed in an investigation brought to them by their sources of evidence. “ I read a little faster because I want to leave time for my colleague. In any case, we have very little, our parliamentary group has 14 minutes, let's say about these three reports. As you can see, I didn't mention Mrs Petrusic at all, nor could I comment on her reports. I think it's a shame we've united the debate on such an important matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2618	Thank you. Now I'm giving a regular break for an hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours and five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2619	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2620	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear guests, representatives of the country's independent institutions, it's always a pleasure to talk to you and our position on your reports you've heard. We believe these reports deserve DS support. Of course there are conditions and falls in the development of our society, in every segment that you cover. It's never been an ideal situation in this country. I'm sorry that some things don't just change every year, and I'm sorry that you who are doing your job with honor and fighting the troubles of this society and the lack of hearing by the state government seem to me, from some periodic reports, simply finding things that can't be solved. First of all, the things that concern, as you have well noticed, the absolute non-response of public enterprises to your interventions, the lack of reports by the government to this Assembly, etc. We have problems in the state administration that are already endemic and cannot change the way they've tried to change all governments so far. I don't think there's any progress here. We have this terrible example that you cited with a solidarity tax for women in pregnancy, which is also not possible to solve in this way, which has proved through practice. What needs to be very concerned, and what colleagues have been talking about, is the persistent mention of political will, which just before the ruling majority said, that there is political will, that it is applied strongly, that we have aggressive employment, aggressive application of political will, and I am sorry that in the last two years it has mostly gone over the back of citizens. I think you're absolutely right and that political will must exist in law enforcement, but there should be no political will around law enforcement, but that institutions do their job. I must tell you that the very fact that you, by your work, your statements, the way you fight for the independence of the institutions you represent really gives us all respect. The fact that you've pissed us all off while we've been in power, and that you're pissing off even now, shows that you're doing a hell of a job, simplistically speaking. It just means that you're really doing your job, and in that sense you need to give every confession. It's not just about courage, respected citizens, these honorable people apply the laws, apply the Constitution, apply the standards that a citizen needs to give freedom and get under the pressure of every executive authority. Every authority tends to be authoritarian, and this one in particular. And that's why we need to be very careful. We, citizens, look at you most often in a situation where the system and institutions are unable to execute what is law and Constitution guaranteed to every citizen of ours. That's why your role is immeasurable, and that's why we from the DS are proud to have participated in the formation of the institutions that you represent today, of course, with enormous disadvantages that we haven't been immune to. I'm glad things are moving in the right direction. You will have our absolute support regarding the number of employees, people who help you in your work, enabling normal working conditions, around accommodation, about costs and everything else. I believe that matters of freedom and justice must not be spared. In that sense, you really have our full support. I am pleased to see that your report, Mr. Jankovic, has also touched the tabloidisation of Serbian society, unnatural, by the authorities, instructed links between the tabloids and investigations being conducted. Also today, we live in a country where you've noticed very well we have inflation of various strategies, plans, action plans, plans, wonders of God being brought before Serbian citizens by a government that can essentially change nothing. That's what we have in the judiciary, we have in the fight against corruption, we have in other places. We have an unnumbered strategy. Right away, let's be clear. We brought them in, too. But they only serve to take up media space for 25 minutes. We also have one thing that you couldn't include in your report because it's restricted calendarly, as you explained well, which is the phenomenon of censorship and self-censorship in Serbia. It's one thing that's not new to our society, but its phenomenal form, in all the brutality we've been looking at these months and weeks, is a new thing for our society. And that's something everyone needs to worry about. This, of course, violates the equality of citizens, the equality of political entities in political struggle, asphyxiation of institutions and freedom and independence of the media, etc., that I do not go back to really bad examples, where the prime minister calls you "so-called. independent institutions" and comment on your salaries. That's what we tried in 2012 in this assembly to explain to him, when it was voted on by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I'm kind of surprised that your receipts are under the glass and not the receipts at the National Bank of Serbia, which are multiplely larger than yours, even at the time of your savings? I think it's unfair. My opinion is that you carry this burden very well, all three, and I believe that if I may ask you on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, not only those who vote for the DS, but all Serbian citizens, to endure in this fight, to preserve your courage, to preserve the independence of the institutions you represent, because that is how you safeguard the freedom of all citizens. If you fall, conditionally speaking, then really nothing stands between the arbitrary act of some part of the state administration and a citizen who feels absolutely helpless in his life in this country. We have a terrible situation in our society. The media is also censorship, but editors and journalists are also in some model of self-censorship. It goes with each other, it can't be separated, and it's never been separated in the history of the world. As it seems in practice, we could see. They are not “some sites that have been downloaded there, ” but they have been downloaded and blocked sites. While we're talking today, the "Sandstone" site is blocked, because it says something that's very awkward for a minister in the government, which is that it seems to have plagiarized a doctorate there. We also have some other sites that spoke negatively about the executive authorities who have been blocked for a long or short time, and we have some blogs and inscriptions that were downloaded during the emergency situation, and this has shown a real nervousness of our regime and one situation which, unfortunately, has led to even entering a verbal conflict, and a media conflict, with an organisation that we should soon chair, which I don't think has been recorded in this country since 1999, when we last entered into conflict with the OSCE. You know exactly what happened after that. I don't call on it, nor do I think it's going to happen now, but it's a very symptomatic situation. I simply believe that for the rights of Serbian citizens, the most dangerous thing is the alienation of power, a violent government that thinks when faced with justified criticism, and in my view any criticism is justified which has a grain of arguments within it, whether on social networks or in the media or in the Serbian Parliament, it reaches for an old tried-out recipe. I will point my finger at an international community or a conspiracy that stands in the way of our prosperity and progress, and I will point my finger at the forces and those who work against us in agreement with someone. Of course, it's always some indeterminate stuff. Of course it's necessary for this country to finally discover and tell us who was talking about the high furnaces, thousands of corpses, who were panicking, what is it called, who is this man, to explain to us why people were brought in because of what they wrote on Facebook, and if there are elements for a crime, then we have to apply it to the printed media. We need to see what the meetings of our emergency staff looked like. Who was spreading panic at the headquarters sessions. Who authorized the new Chief of Defense to stamp himself that he was Chief of Staff? Who took advantage of this situation, actually, for political points? That's not the point. That's right. But what is the subject, I come back, what is a subject unfortunately Serbian citizens, is that we have, indeed, a problem in Serbia, a huge one, that we have a growing domestic violence, as you said 40 women lost their lives, was killed in Serbia last year, we have a problem in functioning the state administration, largely, not everywhere, we have a problem with the lack of the work of extraction services, as you have well noticed. Our inspection services are ruined. There is no strong democracy without strong inspection services. Our inspection services and their executioners can count on the fingers of one or two hands. Their powers are constrained, powerful men are more powerful than any inspection, than any tax collector, a close government tycoon doesn't have to pay taxes in this country. We have a terrible situation. This country not only has an economic problem, we have an operational, systemic, functional problem, and we have a problem asphyxiating freedom and the rights of citizens. We have a problem, as you know, and you probably already have a lot of complaints, that citizens in Obrenovac are getting us one bread and pâté today, and they've been standing in line for hours. Why? Because the problem is to bring military Polish cuisine and make people meals so people can eat. Then Minister Gasic remembered yesterday, and he should have remembered it much, much earlier. These are the things that the citizens will point to. These are things that are inexplicable, inexplicable completely. So it's not just the impatience of state and self-will, it's ineffectiveness, it's ignoring, it's principle that I don't care. It was there during the previous governments, and it exists, unfortunately, right now. I'm sure citizens, by choosing political representatives, always want to do better. They always want progress. They want to change for the better, they want things to change. But unfortunately, Serbia's citizens are not in Serbia today. Today in Serbia you have media where I can't or rarely, I'm talking about electronics, that the representatives of the opposition are visiting, today we have such a situation where a journalist is afraid to ask questions. You've got situations where a journalist doesn't run a show but leads a prime minister. You have a situation in which no one can say anything, because if he says so, he's part of a conspiracy that wants to bring down this people's power that has received huge support. It's a danger. It's not about political belongings. It is asphyxiation of freedom. And in that sense, your next report, unfortunately for me, Mr. Jankovic, will begin with such acts of insubordination and asphyxiation of freedom and the rights of the citizens we have seen in recent months who have not been able to stand in this report. I'm sorry, and I know that's how it's gonna be. I would also appeal to Mr Sabic, to do as much as possible, and if in that sense he was very cooperative, to finally see this contract with Etihad, which has been promised to us countless times that he would be delivered to the public, and the contract with Fiat. I agree, it's been promised by the end of the election campaign, it's long gone, the contract's gone. We want to see what's going to happen and what's going to happen to that contract, what it is, if there's a connection to Belgrade Airport, if we've given something to someone that we didn't know so far. I think it's justified and that it falls within the scope of your business. I'm sorry we wrote you what we asked for, and we haven't gotten to that contract yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2621	Replica, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2622	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if it'll be two minutes enough for me to have this rally, rallying, not talking about agenda points, whether I can adequately respond. I suppose the previous speaker, when he spoke about the authoritative regime, spoke about the report of independent regulatory bodies for 2010, 2011. We're not talking about those reports. We're talking about the 2013 report. A year. This was in 2010, when all the decisions and decisions were to be made in the National Assembly and when the Prime Minister sat at Andric's wedding, and the president of the Assembly at Andric's wedding and everything was made at Andric's wedding, but this was the 2010-2011 report. So there's absolutely nothing from the authoritarian regime. I also find it unclear to criticise the strategy why there are strategies and action plans when the Citizens' Protector is in the 2013 report, and I think we have read the same report, praised the adoption of the National Strategy for Justice Reform, the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Strategy in the reform of the judiciary, the laws that have been passed. Do you thus criticise the very report in which the Citizens' Protector commended the adoption of strategies and action plans that are quite well-armed with timeframes. As far as the media is concerned, it is interesting to criticise the current situation in the media, and not criticise the situation in the media until 2010, 2011, when party presidents or prominent political officials were media owners. Why isn't that mentioned? Why is it not mentioned the criticism of the Information Act, which was barely brought into this National Assembly in the eighth assembly of the National Assembly, when it was traded between July of the month, when the debate was concluded in principle, and on 29 or 30 August when the law was passed on only misery, and adopted in the National Assembly. And in one thing I'd agree with, it's good when some things are admitted. It's good when the former regime admits that the reports of independent regulatory bodies irritated him. He was probably so upset that the reports from 2005 to 2011, he didn't even adopt them at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He didn't even discuss them, unlike this government of the Republic of Serbia, from this congregation majority who liked it, didn't like it, we're talking about it, and we're going to vote on it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2623	On what grounds, Mr. Marinkovic? Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds? I won't give you a replica. I know it would go on forever now. You've caused a replica and I've tolerated some of your ironings, I didn't want to interrupt you, and the logical thing was the replica of the other side, and I think we're done with it. The next speaker is MP Novica Tonchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2624	Dear Chairman, today, in the debate on reports submitted to the National Assembly by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, the Commissioner for Information from Public Sedition and the Protector of Citizens, I would like to pay the utmost attention to the report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Sedition. I would like to commend this institution which allows for the availability of important information and transparency in the work of state bodies and institutions. In that sense, I would like to commend the report we are discussing today. In every democratic society, the work of all state authorities and public officials is understood and must be made available to the public. This is provided, among other things, by means of public information, by submitting different reports, where all state authorities and officials are obliged to perform their duties and public functions, to act publicly. This also applies to the MPs of my party, I think of the SPS, as well as other SPS members who are in public functions, but there are more and more disinformation and distorted images in the media about many public figures, and in particular the popular presentation of various details from the private life of public officials many of whom are not true. This way, the media does not serve to inform, but rather to misinformation. Basically, these texts only serve to raise the level of circulation and to make easy profit from various media. I see here the role and importance of the Commissioner, but also of the Protector of Citizens, who need to recognize these phenomena and the protection of the public, or citizens from sensations on the front page. Both public figures and officials are citizens and have the right to their lives. One thing is writing about the activities of public officials, and another thing is to bring out details from their private lives. You know, we MPs and all the people in public functions have the right to their private lives. On the other hand, there are very frequent and dangerous abuses by the institution of the Commissioner for Public Information and by little the Protector of Citizens. Very often not only citizens, but also NGOs, and also political parties are burdening the trustees with their demands, and thus also state authorities and local self-government, which are legally required to provide the requested information. These requirements most often require the preparation of a large number of information for which local self-governments need enormous time, people and material resources. What is obvious is the abuse of a large number of non-serious and illogical demands that are completely collapsing the institution, providing information of public importance. There are many examples throughout Serbia for that. I'll list one from my municipality, from the Surdulci municipality. We have a problem with a political party, I will not deliberately say which political party it is working on in order not to cause unnecessary replicas and waste of time here, but this political party makes almost every day requests to the municipal administration for access to information of public importance and asks for a large number of information. They're even looking for projects. As we are obliged to respond by law, we practically allow political parties to become owners of archives and documentation of local self-government and other state bodies. I think that this is unacceptable and that it is necessary to consider legal access, i.e. to specify information of public importance so as not to bring about daily abuses, which is a multiple problem for us from local self-government. First, we legally transfer archives and information into the hands of natural persons, political parties or NGOs, and thus destroy the system. Secondly, a large number of requirements that receive local self-government require a large involvement of professional services and takes up a lot of time, including material resources, because very often we have to copy several thousand sides, to answer professionally and reasonedly whatever content they are. It would be good if the government made it possible to receive, but as we know that by the number of employees we can't, and we have a problem like you having the employment of new workers, it would be good to allow the reception of new workers who would only work on this case. Please pay particular attention to this, as we slowly transfer the archives of the municipal administrations of public enterprises to the premises of some parties, NGOs or natural persons. We, MPs of the SPS, will support all reports. I thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2625	The word is by MP Radoslav Jovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2626	Dear Chairman, honored guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are talking about the reports of three very important regulatory bodies, and we are essentially talking about human freedoms and rights. In his famous speech, Martin Luther King addressed his countrymen and spoke of human rights and freedoms, he said that famous sentence: “I have a dream. ” The people I belong to for centuries have this dream, the dream of democracy, freedom and human rights. Unfortunately, it pains me very much to hear today's lightly-declared assessment of the state of human rights in our country. Both within Serbia and from the outside often as an instrument of pressure on us are used lightly given estimates that are not based on arguments. It hurts, you know? It hurts because we ignore one elemental fact, which is the history of fighting for human rights in these areas. We forget, in fact, that the XVIII century as a people has been spent fighting for elementary freedoms and creating a modern Serbian state. We forget that the 20th century has passed through us in great wars and great casualties and, unfortunately, by the will of great powers and by the end of the world after the Second World War, we have been assigned in some way to be in the totalitarian system, which lasted until the end of the 20th century. What kind of human rights were we able to talk about back then, and they were always in us and they were our ideals? Unfortunately, the end of the 20th century, we have been welcomed under terrible sanctions and with a fundamental disregard for human rights in these areas. You know we ended it up with that terrible bombing, where our right to life was denied. Practically, it's only the beginning of the 21st century that this people and this country are finally given a chance to talk seriously about this great dream of human freedoms and rights. That is why those who make it so easy to say the estimates, wherever they come from, about the state of human rights and freedoms in Serbia, and do not take into account these facts, such history, make a great injustice for both this people and this country. Of course human freedoms and rights are one of the basic principles on which modern human civilization is built. By its own strategic commitment to go in the direction of unification with European peoples, it in some way obliges us to provide our citizens and all of us, even if this already adopted level and standards that provide the central issue, which is how safe and free a man feels in the country where he lives? I am deeply convinced that in these incomplete decades and a half, since we have finally been able to build a democratic system and a democratically organized society on the rule of law, we have actually taken a step of seven miles. If we consider what we've spent centuries and decades before that, it's really for respect. Of course, we have an obligation to fight and be better than it is and certainly building an institution is of invaluable importance. And these institutions that we have built together in this House certainly have great importance and support for all of us, including the SNS parliamentary groups that I belong to. Of course it's important to inform people. In one of your reports before us here, I heard that, among other things, you had a large number of lectures held in Serbia. The degree of democracy, the degree of awareness of rights will be built, depends on how capable we are of introducing every citizen to his rights and freedoms. We call it medically, since I'm a doctor, preventive work. We always swear that it is very important to apply prevention, so that evil does not happen, or the disease does not happen. It is a good intensity, and it is truly my maximum support that you, apart from your regular work in everyday practice, do the maximum effort you can, of course, together with us, and that is our obligation as MPs, to get to know every man in Serbia, who are his rights and how he can achieve them, how he can cope with something called power and authority usurpation. Of course, the efforts of all institutions are very important. It cannot be said of any opposition between regulatory bodies, between the National Assembly or the Government. On the contrary, it is the task of all of us. It bothers me, frankly, when I hear someone say -- you know, it's my job to fight the government and the ministers. There is no reason to fight against the government and against the ministers, if they do their job responsibly, honestly and honestly, but we need to fight the phenomenon in a society that is negative and that takes away our rights and freedoms for which we fight. Also, I think that speculation about the cost of our agencies' work, our regulatory bodies, should in some way be neutralized and reduced to a reasonable extent by giving reports to Serbian citizens on financial operations and regulatory bodies and agencies. Of course, this can also be given in the context of a report like this, and can also be given in the context of a report that goes with the adoption of the budget for the following year, i.e. the previous year's report. I want you to succeed in your work, because your success will be the success of me as an individual and as a citizen, but also of all of us sitting here. It's actually going to be Serbia's success, and that's finally, hopefully, we'll get in line for the organized societies that we're all trying to do, I hope. Good luck with your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2627	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. You've got two and a half minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2628	Thank you. It's not easy to say in two and a half minutes what you have to say about independent regulatory bodies, but I'll try to point out what's most important. I would like to express my satisfaction that at this point we are discussing the report of independent regulatory bodies, led by Mrs Petrusic, Mr Sabic and Mr Jankovic and I welcome them at this time, because I think it is a good time to discuss individual issues, I would say, technical issues, concerning the work of these independent institutions, move from the media and transfer them to the Serbian parliament. It's also an opportunity to, as I said, highlight the importance of these bodies. I will remind you of a statement by the great philosopher Monteski, who said that experience always shows that every man who has power in his hands has a predisposition to abuse them, he will go so far as to face obstacles. The obstacles to this government should right now be independent regulatory bodies, on the one hand, and on the other hand, should allow for the protection of human rights, but also for citizens who encounter certain problems to solve them. I think that's exactly what these reports are talking about today. On the one hand, we were able to look at some individual cases from which we could learn lessons or recommendations for the continued conduct of state authorities, but on the other hand we could also look at systemic deficiencies, failures or systemic violations of human rights. I think it's a very serious finding that it's been said here that the political will is above the rule of law, and that's exactly what we need to be instructed, not just by the authorities, but by all of us. The rule of law is the basic assumption of the Constitution and rests on inalienable human rights. From this we can elaborate further, but I believe that we should all read these reports together, especially representatives of the government, and that certain abuses and violations that occurred during the previous year or in the previous period should not continue to take place. Also, here and in the reports, it has been said that there has been manipulation in the media and that there has been tabloidisation in the media. I'm sorry there are no procedures about this... (President: Finish your thought.) Your time is up. ) As I said, we will support these reports, and I hope that we will be able to continue to discuss this another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2629	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2630	Thank you. The exhibit, which I want to earn your attention to, is divided into two parts. First of all, what we're actually doing here, because it seems to me, it's not clear enough, whether it's because of a lack of time or because of what we think we know. Another context is in which we are considering conclusions on the report by Mrs Petrusic, Mr Sabic and Mr Sasa Jankovic. Here we consider the conclusions that we commit to the government what we should do on the recommendations of the reports mentioned and do nothing else. It's a pretty serious job. According to reports, all three committees have received six months to report on how they have implemented the recommendations of the report, and the recommendations are quite serious, large and fortunately, perhaps not asking for money, but require commitment to the regulations describing both the work of the Government and the work of the Citizens' Protectors, the Trustee for Equality and the Commissioner for Information from public importance and the protection of personal data. We're talking about the government here, not the reports that have been filed and the conclusions that we've made together on the board to press the government to start seriously considering all the documents in its jurisdiction. It's not about the government I'm in. It's one of the kind of proclivities of government. For four years, we need to pray for something that calls itself a minister to bring in a sublegal act. I once had an amendment to be a felony, so they told me – you don't understand the legal system. I understand the legal system, but I don't understand it, and I've declared war on people who say it's not my job. Whose is it? Two-thirds of the recommendations in these reports exist because someone didn't do their job, thinking someone else would. These are ministers who are either uncritically defended or are ministers who must be responsible for the work they have been paid out of the budget, as are the rest of us, including the Prime Minister. Let them campaign for their constituents whenever they want and as long as they want, legitimately, in the media, on the street, whatever you want. Ignoring the obligations arising from the rules under which the government is operating is inadmissible and in six months we will discuss it. That's what this session is about. The context in which we are considering reports is a context in which a narrowing of the space for freedom of public words, the existence of censorship and self-censorship, increased violence, domestic violence, increased increase in violence on the street, and almost the promotion of violence in some public speech and public life. It's serious stuff. Again, as in the case of sublaws, which otherwise exist as obligations in the Resolution on the legislative activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which we all voted for. You can't be the government now, so you're the opposition, so it doesn't matter what I voted for, you don't have to write me a sublegal act. He has to. Until we decide once that the subjects of human rights, the powers that we have put into the hands of the people we choose, we are their constituents, all three. Because we're their voters, so we listen to what they've done. So based on what we're hearing what they've done, we're asking the government to follow the law. So until we get serious about our business, all human rights will be cobajagi. There is no love for your foreigner and there is no loyalty to the president of your party and there is no loyalty to the government that you support, nor is there any criticism for the government that you do not support, which will be able to hide whether we are serious or we are a sausage for human rights and for the jobs that we have entrusted these people to do on our behalf. I had two suggestions for conclusions, they didn't pass, which is no wonder. I'm a minority on that board, but just because I'm a minority doesn't mean I'm wrong. I asked the Government to return the amendments and amendments to the laws concerning the functioning of the Citizens' Protectors and the Commissioner for Public Information, the amendments and the additions to the laws that were in the procedure until 2012 legitimately withdrawn when the Government came, but never returned. Unfortunately, it didn't work, I didn't write the amendment, but I hope it would be reasonable for the business to apply the conclusions made by the committees of this assembly, each government, and this one, to take seriously and to make amendments and additions necessary for the functioning of both the Citizens' Protector and the Information Commissioner. The second proposal I made by the Committee adopted most of the votes. It's about three months from now we want to see on the board representatives of the MUP who give us reports on the implementation of the protocol to prevent domestic violence and combat family violence, because that's the problem. As someone thinks - come on, now I'm writing a law, a sublegal act, don't, so someone else thinks – though, just write protocols, no matter, and you're beating yourself up like this, neither there nor here. So on the board, if we vote for these conclusions, the MUP will have to come to the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and give us a report on the implementation of its own protocols. Human rights are not good words, protection and the right to free information are not good words, and in particular freedom of speech and guarantees of our rights are not just good words. It is up to us to prove from our words that we can do things, especially since we have three great knowers and people who have dedicated themselves to their work and who have really turned a lot of these words into deeds. It is up to us to press the government until December to turn our conclusions into deeds, otherwise everything will be just hypocrisy, and my message will be – never listen to what they say, watch what they do. It is a way to make everything we want to represent as a cobayage a reality that is good for citizens and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2631	I am informing the MPs that today we will continue our work after 18 hours, and until the debate is over on this agenda. The word is from the People's MP Vladica Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2632	The Honorable Chairman, respected trustees, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have regular annual reports of independent regulatory bodies. My first finding is that they are comprehensive, exhaustive, with a lot of details and information, with a lot of examples from practice and life, with a detailed display of trustee work and with observations and recommendations. The content of these reports can suit us or be less appropriate to us, we can either agree or not to some examples of these reports, but precisely what they exist and what they are put before us to consider and adopt just proof of the existence of the rule of law and proof that censorship is not there. When we look at and read examples of discrimination, I have to express my position to believe that they exist in a certain extent, as it is given, perhaps a little smaller or perhaps a little larger, but it certainly exists and that we as a society, as a state, must fight it. I disagree with the idea heard on the other hand that the only SNS is guilty that there are examples of discrimination in society today. As an example, I can say, if you look at previous years' reports, you will see that discrimination is present in a similar scope, that it existed at the time of the previous authorities, that the reason for increasing the reporting of certain cases of violation of law can be that there is greater trust in the citizens' institutions and the institution of the Trustee for the protection of equality, but also trust in the institutions of the system. The second contribution to this claim is that discriminatory behaviour and action occurs not only in the area of the operation of the republican authorities, but also in the province and local ones. You will agree that the SNS does not participate in all these authorities. The fact is that the very forms of this behaviour are not related to the political parties that are in power, but it is unquestionably the fact that political parties in power have the greatest responsibility and the highest opportunities to improve the position of marginalised categories, and it is being promoted by reforming the overall rule of law systems. That is why it is the role of our MPs to condemn every kind of discrimination, to support these reports and to give one strong support to the government's attempts to reform the system and raise the level of social values for which step is higher. As for violations of the rights of national minorities, there is the most in the report by the Protectors of Citizens and Commissioners for the Protection of Equality. From the Citizens' Protector's Report, I must say, although it is not and does not have to be a rule, I am pleased that the number of cases reported in breach of national minority rights is significantly lower in 2013 compared to 2012. So 209 in 2013 and 364 in 2012. I remain in my earlier position that exactly the most vulnerabilities of national minorities that are least organized. Here is a clear example that the Roma communities, or the Roma community or the Roma national minority, are, however, the biggest violation of rights. This is seen in Table 21, where infringements of the special rights are members of national minorities, where the violation of Roma special rights participates with some 52.9%, which contributes to the fact that the organisation of national minorities is what protects their rights. The key to solving this problem is the synergy of two directions of action. The first is to strengthen the role of the National Council of Minorities. It is my pleasure that one of the first laws that we have adopted here is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the National Minority Councils Act. In October, there will be elections for national councils of national minorities. In the coming period, the law on national councils will be brought into line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I expect that there will be some structural changes in the next period, i.e. closer determination of the field of action from the area of competence of national councils. The second course of action is the fight against all types of violation of the rights of national minorities in all institutions, institutions, local communities, across the province to the republican authorities, and in order to achieve a zero degree of tolerance, when it comes to violations of the rights of national minorities. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote for the reports. We may disagree with certain examples until the end, we may think that they can be interpreted in a different way, but we will vote because they are made by independent regulatory bodies and because we do not want to interfere, to influence their work, but also because we want to take a critical look at some phenomena and change ourselves for the better, because by changing ourselves, as people who create Serbian politics, I am inclined to believe that we influence the moral values of society to a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2633	Slavica Djukic Dejanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2634	Dear Mrs. Petrusic, Mr. Sabic, Mr. Jankovic, I'm glad you're with your associates at the House of the National Assembly. Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we discuss reports and discuss them, we are in the position of one of the most important tasks and positions we have as elected representatives of the citizens. So, along with our presidential, legislative activity, and how supervised it is, we are doing it in a way, among other things, to consider regulatory body reports. I think it's a tendency to combat discrimination, and to strengthen all forms of equality, just one step further in the development of our country's democracy and, of course, we all owe it to all those who have contributed. The report clearly shows that from year to year representatives of independent regulatory bodies, who are here before us, with their associates this job really works so that the awareness of citizens wakes up. Citizens simply accept the importance of developing equality in all fields and the importance of suppressing discrimination in the way anyone takes it and it is not as important as it is that in the minds of all of us in different positions, it enters somewhere as our civic, social and common obligation. Within the division of the task force I belong to, I was given the task to discuss and to refer specifically to the section, i.e. the Report of the Trustee of Equality, and it is a special honor to me, because it is a woman and it is a special honor, as it would seem to me that I have received another task. The trustee took the first step with her associates four years ago, and of course he was difficult. Then only every fifth citizen knew she even existed. Today most citizens know and what function the Commissioner has with his associates in the way that we in the Assembly are obliged to keep regular and other reports under consideration, the way in which the committees are considered and the MPs bring us into a very important position on this subject and we all have a lot of reasons to be satisfied with the way we work today. We will agree that the few topics are that at the beginning when representatives of the parliamentary groups take part in the debate we say – we will vote for something. We'll all vote. Well, it's also a beautiful atmosphere, but it's also a recognition to people who do a hard job, who often tend to be mediators in the field of developed human rights, each in their own field in a special way. We often feel like they're taking over some other functions. Often, and we interpret something that is new for Serbia as a state, but we must acknowledge all together that thanks to them we are taking very important and significant steps and moving forward. When it comes to the trustee and the trust of equality at all, I must say that the Report with its structure and its contents fully corresponds to the task that is ultimately foreseen by law. The way in which the results of work were presented in 2013 says that a great importance was given to prevention. Thanks to the truly vis-à-vis the Commissioner and her associates that this job cannot be done autistically, individually, but in collaboration with civil society, in collaboration with international organisations. We and this year, like the three previous ones, have the results of research on the same variables that can actually help us all how we're going to do it now and what we can do next. I'll say there really is room to worry about some of the parameters that we got from the research that CESID did, I think, in this year 2013. First of all, we need to be concerned about the opinion of our citizens surveyed when it comes to institutions most discriminated against by citizens. They say it's political parties, the government, the Assembly and the judiciary. This is actually one of the important reasons I would insist on when we MPs both in committees and in communication with citizens and in our legislative activities. This is actually the hearing and the sensitivity that we need to have, because citizens are sending us a message, they understand our position of surveillance, they support it, but they think we haven't done enough yet and that we should work on it. Also interesting from this research are some other parameters. As many as four-fifths of citizens clearly differ that it is one of the unwarranted procedures when they need to define and perceive discrimination. So they understand perfectly well what we are asking what it really is to recognize the citizens of Serbia. I'll take the opportunity to present the following information. A large number of subjects, e.g. Thinks society should pay attention to poor people, as much as 76%, people with disabilities 42%, violence against women 71%, aged 68%, gender equality 53%. Among the subjects is 24% of those who feel that society should not pay attention to people of different sexual orientations, which is also a problem, and 18% that society should do nothing when it comes to religious minorities. These are very serious data and the data found in this guy's report are actually the reason to think again seriously about what we really need to do. I would use a little more of your attention to remind you that the laws passed in 2013 were quite significant. You will understand why I especially point out the importance of the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation and why I especially point out the importance of the Law, which we have brought here in Parliament on a proposal from the Government, on the protection of patients. These are two extraordinary laws. Sublegal acts are done in time. We're starting to apply that law. Now we're on the right track. We are now on the move that the report we are going to consider for 2014 says that these two laws were passed in May 2013, that the sublaws were done in time and what is most important, what results we have in applying these laws in people with mental disorders, or in our patients. Have we done anything to suppress discrimination against these very sensitive categories? What have we done? Did our patient rights adviser, whom we moved from health care facilities to local self-government units to advise patients on rights there, justify what we passed in law on the one hand, and on the other hand what a person who has a mental disorder and who sometimes is unable to protect his interest gets the moment when we take away her ability, or the right to freely decide on hospitalization? Our law said it could only happen in two cases. Someone could be admitted to a health care facility besides his will. Forced treatment only in case the result of illness endangers your own life or threatens your life in the environment. I deliberately apostrophe these two laws that are beginning to apply, the role of all of you who are today, to my great satisfaction, guests of the National Assembly and the role of us MPs who and how we can both through committee work and through communication with citizens, but although it is necessary through changes in legal acts in the coming period and in the near time period do much for our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2635	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Djurovic, and let the MP Nedo Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2636	The Honorable Chairman and representatives of independent bodies, fellow MPs, when we read the reports of the Citizens' Protector, as well as the Trustee for the Protection of Equality for 2013 by overcoming the impression that is being imposed are negative primarily assessments that impose on us a pessimism that remains as an impression when we read it. On the other hand, when I sum up what we did in 2013 at the National Assembly, a number of laws that we passed, a number of conventions that we confirmed, I think we did a lot of positive things just in respect of human rights. When I say that, I am not only speaking from the corner of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, but also speaking from the corner of the Council of Europe, given that I am in the previous term, as well as from the position of the head of the delegation. So I suppose you all know this well, but it is not mentioned again, especially because of the citizens of Serbia, that the Council of Europe is an international organisation that brings together European countries and takes care to respect the rule of law, democracy, human and minority rights, and the most important act is the European Convention on Human Rights. In the past year and a half, I've heard most of the praises in Strasbourg for many of the things Serbia has done. Just yesterday I returned from the Committee on Equality and Non-discrimination of the Council of Europe, where I participated in the work, and otherwise I actively participate in the previous meeting. So, and then Serbia is mentioned in a positive context, and later I will mention what it is about. Then I come here, I read these reports, and I listen to today's debate where the criticism is most heard, so I actually want to talk about something else today, talk about the positive things that we've done, which are somehow left in the other plan. You mentioned an increase in demands compared to last year. Mrs Petrusic mentioned 25% higher and Mr Jankovic said 3,000 more requirements compared to the previous year. If we look at your previous reports as well, we will see that every year that comes shows an increase in the number of demands, which does not mean that human rights in Serbia are becoming less and less respected. I think the thing is, on the one hand, what kind of trust citizens have in you as institutions and also, on the other hand, information that is available to citizens via electronic media and the Internet. Citizens are increasingly committed to using all their rights. You have commended the ratification of the Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe, or the Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence. The convention came precisely from the aforementioned Committee on Equality and Non-discrimination of the Council of Europe. I would like to stress that Serbia is the eighth country of 47 member states to complete the ratification process. In order for the convention to take effect, it is necessary that 10 members of the Council of Europe ratify it. So far they have done so, alongside Serbia, Spain, Turkey, Albania, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Italy and Portugal. At the meeting, we were informed that both Andorra and Denmark had completed ratification, providing the necessary number of 10 member states. On this occasion, I would like to inform you that on August 1st of this year, the convention will come into force. It was us, as one of the countries that participated in the fact that it could come into effect, that we were commended for that mentioned committee. This way, I would like to appeal to the competent ministry to prepare a strategy for the implementation of the Convention, and we, as a delegation to the Council of Europe Assembly, are about to initiate on August 1st to mark some adequate events, some conference, where we can discuss everything we need to do further in order to implement in the best possible way all those guidelines given to us by the Istanbul Convention itself, especially with regard to the protection of victims of violence. I think implementation is certainly the most important, because it's not enough laws to pass. That's one, I'd say, a long-term process, given that we have to work on changing people's minds. We need to introduce in schools the necessary education on how unacceptable violence is and, otherwise, about what you mentioned about what discrimination is and what is unacceptable. Unfortunately, the problem of domestic violence is not a problem that only Serbia faces. Many countries that even set standards on women's rights and, for example, have large examples of good respect for women's rights, such as some Scandinavian countries, specifically Finland, have a high percentage of domestic violence. As for the Council of Europe, besides having many committees, there are two networks. One network is about protecting women's rights, violence against women. On the other hand, there is a network dealing with the protection of children's rights, which shows that the two categories are still unprotected worldwide, not only in Serbia. On the agenda of the National Assembly in 2013 was another convention of the Council of Europe, which is the Lanzarote Convention, the Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. Then Serbia abolished the age-oldging age of six for obsolescence of the last sexual delinquent. Thus, in addition to Great Britain, Serbia has become another country in Europe where it is recognised that sexual trauma in a child has no duration, leaves lasting consequences and requires the legal possibility of criminal proceedings at the time when a person who survived sexual trauma feels able to participate in the procedure. This is why we are also praised in the Council of Europe, and I think we are a good example for other countries, after the UK and Serbia, what should they do and end sexual obsolescence over that delinquent. Speaking of protecting women and children's rights, I must also mention two legislative initiatives by Nebojska Stefanovic in the past year, adopted by the National Assembly. The Law on the Health Care of Children, Pregnants and Breeders provides them with health care regardless of whether they have certified their health books. We also made it impossible for employers to quit to pregnant women and maternity women after the end of the labor contract. The amendments laid down that the working woman, whose contract expires for a certain period of time during the period of application of the right to maternity leave, should be extended to at least the expiry of the right to maternity leave by the working contract. These are all the laws and conventions that were adopted in 2013, and these are the very reports relating to 2013. As for minority rights, I would like to mention a report adopted at the April plenary session of the Council of Europe Assembly and on the position of national minorities in Europe. The reporter was Mr. Kalmar of Hungary. In his report, he mentioned Serbia as a good example of respect for minority rights and as the best example of respect for the collective rights of national minorities. I really think that's one good thing we need to mention here today. I felt proud in Strasbourg that day that Serbia was mentioned in such a positive context. We recently adopted amendments and amendments to the National Minority Councils Act, but I certainly assume it will be the subject of the next report. The high degree of human rights is the ideal of every democratic society. These rights are guaranteed by various international conventions. Also, these rights guarantee the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and guarantee a number of laws dealing with this problem. I think we've done a lot as a country on the segments, but we can also do a lot more. You're here as independent bodies to suggest what we should do further. I wish some of your next reports were a little more with some positive examples of what we've done so far, because I just think sometimes praise can be more motive than constant criticism. We are certainly here as your allies, all MPs of the SNS, because I believe we have the same goal, which is the rule of law and respect for human rights in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2637	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Nedo Jovanovic, and let Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2638	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I again appeared after having had a discussion as an authorised representative, and the clagworth for the current discussion was given to me by Mrs. Comic, a distinguished fellow Member, my distinguished colleague and friend Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, and especially now Aleksandra Đurović. Why? Because it is undeniable and absolutely true to adopt the report, and it is no doubt that these reports will be adopted, we are in a state of obligation or, as we lawyers say, the legal empire. This obligation is an obligation for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to implement all recommendations we adopt consistently. However, here is one question which is essentially for us MPs and complete this parliament – what has been done so far, as Aleksandra Djurovic said? I would be extremely unfair to my colleagues to the members of the Justice Committee if I didn't say what I pointed out on that committee. The Justice Department, where I've been recently, has done a lot when it comes to the judiciary. We can influence the government, gentlemen of the representatives of independent regulatory bodies, but the question is, how do we affect the judiciary when the basic postulate of the judicial system is absolute independence of the courts and absolute independence of the judges? So how do we get something that's essential? How do we get a level playing field? How do we avoid two majors of the same court making two different court decisions, and it is the exact same factual situation and the exact same legal basis? How, then, do Serbian citizens say they enjoy legal certainty from the justice system? And on the Justice Committee, I pointed out what I'm going to say and now, the fact is that it must be done by the Supreme Court of Cassation as the highest court in the final degree of hierarchy in the trial. Is it working? It is doubtless not, at least not enough because of the lack of inciting issues to a sufficient extent, in order for the Supreme Cassation Court to give instructive opinions to low-level courts and to point out how judicial practice should be evened out, and to ensure that citizens are given the right to a fair trial and full legal certainty and thus protect their fundamental rights. Can the Department of Justice be affected in that direction? He can't. Has the Department of Justice done a lot of things that have already been suggested in this report as some kind of recommendation? Yes, but not enough. We have long been waiting for the law on free legal aid and Mr. Jankovic pointed out that. Thank God the Department of Justice managed to make that so-called. the final version of the law on free legal aid where clear distinction has been made between secondary and primary free legal aid, where we have a situation where secondary free legal aid is the headquarters of lawyers, public notation and mediators. This gives us the opportunity to believe, to be optimistic that this law will also enable those vulnerable groups, vulnerable groups, sensitive categories of the population to avoid large costs of the trial, indeed large starting with court fees, legal tariffs, artificial tariffs, etc. As far as the other legislative framework is concerned, it must undoubtedly be far better and far more quality. It also started a process that implies stalking the legal system by correcting huge mistakes, the 2010 reform. The National Strategy on Justice Reform and the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Strategy on Justice Reform has been adopted. I will no longer deal with the judiciary for the simple reason that this Assembly, dear Members of Parliament, and myself, and all of you together are likely to have a chance to analyze and discuss reports by the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors for the next week. Then we'll have a chance to discuss these issues in particular. What I forgot to say today, and I think it's very important for all three representatives of independent regulatory bodies, there's something listed in all the reports that I don't think should be standing in the future, but has become deplaced, which is that the state is in some way obliged to take care of the technical equipment of independent regulatory bodies and their personnel structure. For God's sake, I guess it's clear to the citizens that it's a natural need, a minimum need to work optimally. Is it necessary to say that a court building is needed to allow the court to judge, so that the parties can enter the courtrooms, have some kind of party ID on the prosecutor or the defendant? I think it's time for the state to commit itself in an adequate way. Mr. Sabic praised one, to say, a turn in that direction, a step in some progressive sense of words by providing conditions. Is that enough? It's not enough. It has been pointed out that the personnel structure must be stronger, that through employment, this personnel structure must be accelerated, and we will indeed insist consistently on helping all independent regulatory bodies in this direction. Only Mr. Shabic has one well-intentioned suggestion, I hope that with understanding and acceptance, it is the fact that, having in mind one proposal for a new law, how you hinted at it today in the opening discussion, we are trying to find a good, quality, systemic solution that avoids another absurdity. Today I pointed out one paradox, and I'll point to another. Lawyers and even official officials find it very difficult to obtain information of public importance, and on the other hand, the Anti-Corruption Agency is very simple to access data that are currently subject to special protection when it comes to personal protection data. Such a paradox should no longer exist and the system must be resolved. I, as a lawyer, need a whole procedure to get some information and respect every segment of one procedural action. The Privatisation Agency comes up with all the data needed in this situation when the Privatisation Agency leads to some kind of investigative principle. I'm talking about the Agency because it seems to me that what we've diagnosed today is a fact, a collage of two system solutions to be avoided, and I'm sure you'll make a full contribution in that direction. As so far, the SPS has unreservedly supported all of your activities. We've done it before. It is mentioned here, the status was also mentioned and then the highly respected president of this high House, or parliament, as well as our ministers. We are now in an even greater capacity, especially in our coalition capacity, to help to make everything that we are negotiating today, all that we are adopting today, and I am sure that we will adopt, successfully and realize. Thank you. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2639	The word has a folk MP, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, and let MP Zarko Micin be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2640	Dear President, honourable representatives of regulatory bodies, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us the reports of three regulatory bodies, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter and the Security of Private Data Protection, as well as the report by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. All these three reports that were submitted to us by independent regulatory bodies are detailed, exhaustive, realistic, based on concrete examples, so sometimes I'd say they're lifelike. All these three reports also come first from the assumption of what is good so far and, of course, all three regulatory bodies and how they have made positive shifts and positive progress in the work of state institutions, but of course they have made their recommendations and suggestions on what is to be further promoted and what is to be done further in order to build our society as a democratic society. Otherwise what I recognized somewhere as a common thread, all these three of your reports, are primarily prevention, then education, then respect for the law, and as lastly, I would give an example of responsibility. I'd like to start with the report that was filed by the protector for equality. In her report, she presented in the opening section the most sensitive social groups, which are the areas of life that citizens and citizens are most complaining about, but also made the positive shifts that were made during 2013 as regards the work of the National Assembly, i.e. the adoption of the legal framework and the adoption of legal legislation to improve citizens' rights. I would not repeat myself with my colleague Djurovic, who laid down some laws that were passed last year. I will lay down the Law on the Protection and Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, which provides for additional support for employers when they enter into a working relationship with persons with disabilities indefinitely. Also, the report presents major positive developments in the field of education, with regard to inclusive education, i.e. involving children with disabilities in the regular teaching process, and here I would highlight these individual educational plans, whose aim and essence is that each teacher, when it comes to children with disabilities in its development, comes from individual characteristics, the ability of each child, or such a child, in order to optimally develop all its potentials. Of course, in this field of inclusive education, it should continue to work to improve support services, such as personal assistants and many support services that are within the competence of local self-government, so that people with disabilities can skip that threshold and not be socially excluded. Of course, as a state, we are responsible for providing even more additional services, supporting these people. Also, what I would point out is that it is your recommendation, but it has already been adopted in this Assembly, and it is about amending the legal rules in deprivement of business ability, and I as a social worker, I believe that the procedures that still contained that discriminatory line were in place, and now the revision of the legal rules has been done with a modern social model relating to persons with disabilities. Of course, with proper support, it is possible for these individuals to be adequately used, with help and support, rights guaranteed by law. Also, what is in these recommendations, and of course what is significant in order to combat discrimination, is prevention, prevention and prevention. Therefore, preventive work, above all, in preschool institutions, in educational institutions, inclusion in teaching materials and programmes of all topics concerning tolerance to diversity, non-conflict conflict resolution, whether peers. Of course, the law prescribed the duty and obligation of every teacher, as well as all those employed in educational institutions, to approach every child without discrimination and to fight discrimination and every form of violence. What I want to point out as very important is the confirmation of these two conventions, which is the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of all types of violence against women and another convention concerning the protection of children's rights, which is the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Children and International adoption. Both conventions are significant and by their ratification, they have become an integral part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and we hope that the competent authorities, acting in these matters, and calling in their decisions and on those conventions. What I would like to point out, as regards the report of the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning, is that, I would like to congratulate you, first of all, for the reason that, when it comes to the control of the judicial legality of your work, it is evident that the administrative court, regardless of the 47 claims have been filed on your solutions, has failed to respect any claim, or that your solutions have been confirmed. This is also important from the aspect of the legality and adequate application of the law, the trustees, but certainly how important it is from the aspect of the protection of citizens. What I would like to congratulate you on, is that your institution, the Trustee, during the 2013 research, which was based on issues addressed to civil society, in the media, to political parties, has been recognised as an institution of ten institutions, how much, which enjoys the greatest integrity in terms of the greatest anti-corruption integrity that you are the first in the Republic of Serbia. What I also want to point out, and what is significant from the aspect of the work of the National Assembly, is that we adopted a Anti-Corruption Strategy, where transparency in the work of all state and public bodies is recognised as a fundamental principle, and transparency in general in the work of public institutions, including your law, is an important prerequisite for fighting corruption, which the SNS advocates. As for the Citizens' Protector's Report, I would just focus on the part concerning the protection of the rights of the child, where the citizen's protection has pointed out that a lot of progress has been made so far in protecting the rights of the child to health care, then on the rights of children with special needs, and on inclusive education, but there have been significant changes in the protection of the child's rights, as well as on the promotions of children's rights without parental ageing, whose legal protection is possible through the application of the adoption institute, I think only in those cases where it is impossible to find a foster family, in the area of the Republic of Serbia, is then resorting to international adoption. What I also want to point out, and what the National Assembly is sure to advocate, is raising, establishing a mechanism to investigate these procedures concerning missing babies, what you indicated in 2010, and this recommendation should be carried out by September of this year, and that is something that we recognize as significant and from the aspect of knowing the truth, and also from the aspect of the protection of these children's parents. Of course, all those programs that concern supporting children to stay, especially children with disabilities, in their natural families, because it is also in accordance with the Constitution, the right of the child to grow up with his biological parents, certainly that we will support support support programmes related to those children, which are support programmes, living rooms, or other types of care for these children with disabilities in the community while parents have other obligations, that is, while parents are working. These services have been implemented in many local areas and many local environments have such support services. Of course we still have to work on their promotion, because it's certainly important from the aspect of socialization and inclusion of these children into a peer collective and ultimately, significantly from the aspect of getting out of the natural parenting environment, because it's not rare that children with disabilities, that their first out of the family, is actually going out into these living rooms, which they have lived for the past years. All those programmes that concern the protection of the child's best interests and raising the child's quality and protecting children from all kinds of discrimination, and especially violence, whether physical, psychological, or sexual, the SNS will support. We believe that human and minority rights and their constant improvement are the cornerstone of further democratisation of society, and the SNS as a responsible party in a democratically-organised state, and we will support it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2641	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. Let the Parliament of People be prepared, Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2642	Dear Chairman, representatives of independent regulatory bodies, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today I will analyse and present my vision of the two reports ahead of us – Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and the Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2013. In its 2013 report, the Trustee for the Protection of Equality stated that serious developments have been made in the area of protection of citizens' equality, and that a comprehensive and coherent system of legal protection against discrimination involving civil-law, criminal and criminal justice mechanisms has been established in the past year, and that the applicable rules provide a good legal framework and adequate instruments for the protection of discrimination, its prevention and repression in accordance with international and European standards. As regards the law establishing the basis for the prohibition of discrimination, elements and discriminatory forms of behaviour in the past year, it has been found that there has been no change in the anti-discrimination laws themselves. However, certain laws have been adopted which are important for the protection of discrimination and for the improvement of equality in certain areas, thus legally reforming the area of education in the past year by adopting a series of laws establishing a legal framework for the development of inclusive education and achieving equality in the approach to education. For example, the Law on secondary education and education, adopted in June 2013, defines that in addition to creating conditions for equalising access to education, as one of the objectives of education is prescribed and the development and respect of racial, national, cultural, language, religious, gender and adult equality and tolerance, with the obligation of teachers and other persons employed at school to promote equality among all students and actively oppose all kinds of discrimination and violence. In the domain of health care, in May 2013, the Law on Patients' Rights was adopted which newly regulated the protection of patients' rights, housing and retention of persons with mental disorders in psychiatric institutions. This law explicitly provides for the principle of non-discrimination. I must say that the report found that the National Assembly in 2013 actively participated in the creation and implementation of acts that improve and improve the application of anti-discrimination laws, so in October 2013, the National Assembly ratified two international conventions that thus became an integral part of the internal legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It is the Council of Europe Convention to prevent the fight against violence against women and domestic violence and the Convention on the Protection of Children in the area of international adoption. Also, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted a resolution on legislative policy in June 2013. With this document, the Republic of Serbia has expressed its full readiness to achieve the objectives of legislative policy, including strengthening the rule of law, ensuring full legal certainty and protecting human and minority rights and fundamental freedoms. In addition, the Resolution highlights the need to build and adopt legislative solutions that are the basis for a faster, more efficient and coordinated development of society, in line with the system of social values and respecting the principles of gender equality and taking into account the effects of laws and other regulations on women and men. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality in his report stated that in the past year, recommendations from creditors related to concrete cases of discrimination were largely implemented, with recommendations being implemented, i.e. in part, recommendations made by the Commissioner on the adoption of a national anti-discrimination strategy. In July 2013, a strategy for the prevention and protection of discrimination was adopted, setting out a comprehensively harmonised anti-discrimination policy of the state in order to combat discrimination, especially according to certain sensitive social groups and the integration of the principles of equality and non-discrimination in all areas of the functioning of the system institutions. The report also states that there has been some progress in the field of education of judicial and other officials, and thanks to the numerous educations organised by the Judicial Academy, the Criminal and Police Academy and the Ministry of the Interior, which have allowed judges, public prosecutors and police officers to advance the level of knowledge and understanding of the phenomenon of discrimination and anti-discrimination regulations. As proof that the new government is really working and has results in the area of protection against discrimination, I would like to draw your attention to the research of the World Economic Forum, which shows that Serbia is in 2013 at the 42nd place of 136 countries covered by the World Economic Forum Report. It is a shift of eight places compared to 2012, when Serbia was first included in a report showing the availability of education and health care for women, as well as opportunities for their participation in the country's political and economic life. The report shows that the activities carried out by the Trustee for the Protection of Equality in 2013 and which involve activities to eliminate and prevent discrimination, i.e. to improve equality, have resulted in increased public knowledge of the phenomenon of discrimination itself, as well as increased confidence in the institution of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, and I hope that this practice will continue in 2014. As for the 2013 Citizens' Protector's Report, I will look back on the general part of this report, where the Citizens' Protector finds that by their work in 2013 the institutions of the Republic of Serbia have declared themselves more determined to adopt and strengthen European values, one of which is one of the most significant unconditional respect for guaranteed human rights. When it comes to achieving economic, social and cultural rights, it finds that there are significant difficulties that are primarily caused by the country's difficult economic situation. However, it believes that a positive shift has been made in the past year, through the adoption and application of the Law on the exercise of the right to the health care of children, pregnant women and maternity care, which at least protects vulnerable groups in particular. He also noted that a shift was made in the area of trade union rights, since Serbia's first unions were formed in the military, with the union organisation in the military guaranteed by the Law on the Force with smaller restrictions, in a way that, in its opinion, was formulated by the Citizens' Protector in the draft law. I would draw your attention to the research of the American Heritage Foundation, which deals with various research, including economic freedoms and, according to their research, Serbia took 95th place in competition from 177 countries in the 2013 Economic Freedoms Index and from 2012 improved its position by three places, which tells us that there have been some shifts in this area. As far as the justice domain is concerned, the Citizens' Protector said in that part of the report that he believes that the second round of judicial reform, after the failed first round, did not lead to sensitive improvements in the state sector, which is crucial to guaranteeing justice to citizens, with a large number of complaints about the work of the citizens, and that citizens are increasingly addressing the Constitutional Court for violations of their rights. I believe that the adoption of a set of judicial laws, which has already been passed and the acts of judicial laws that are yet to be passed, will ensure a better organisation of the work of the judicial authorities, making them more effective. Also, more effective use of criminal sanctions and more effective work of criminal sanctions institutions will be ensured, all of which will result in improvements in the justice situation this year. As for the fight against corruption, the Citizens' Protector said in his report that the fight against corruption was intensified in 2013, but that there are not yet strong judicial rulings on these cases, with the view that an effective fight against corruption is necessary as soon as possible to pass a law on the protection of alarmers, which would effectively protect people who report corruption. In this regard, I would also like to draw your attention to the research by the relevant international institution "Transparancy International", which found that Serbia, compared to 2012, had progressed in the fight against corruption, as it proved to be the 80th place in 2012 of the corruption perception index, while in 2013, it rose by as many as eight places, which placed it 72nd in the list, which shows us, indeed, that the government of the Republic of Serbia is fighting decisively and effectively against this phenomenon. With regard to media freedom, the Protector said in his report that he believes there is guaranteed media freedom in Serbia. However, he drew attention to the fact that citizens are guaranteed the right to be informed by the Constitution in such a way that they have the right to be truly, fully and timely in the matter of public importance, and the means of public notice are obliged to respect that right, which is often not the case in Serbia. I also need to draw attention to you in this case that Serbia has made progress in 2013 as far as freedom of the media, as we can see from the report of the Independent Press Institution "Reporters Without Borders", which shows that in 2008, Serbia was 64th in the freedom of the media, so that by 2012, it would fall for as many as 16 places and be 80th. Since the formation of the new government so far, Serbia has made progress on freedom of the media by as many as 26 places and in 2013 has reached 54th place, showing us that there has been significant progress in respecting media freedom compared to the pre-2012 period. As regards the reform of the state administration, the Protector said in his report that he felt that the main objectives of public administration reform were not achieved in 2013, which is depoliticalisation and professionalisation, resulting in a violation of the citizens' various rights. It is precisely in order to address this problem ahead of us that, if adopted, the Serbian Parliament will oblige the Government to propose and adopt appropriate laws and regulations and other direct measures that are more immediate to approach the objectives defined by the Public Administration Reform Strategy in the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in January this year. It also stresses in this conclusion that the improvement of the legal framework and the alignment of administrations with the principles set out in the public administration reform strategy, as well as the integration of the public administration reform process with the European integration process, is one of the most important priorities of the Republic of Serbia. I think that a consistent and effective implementation of the Public Administration Reform Strategy will have a significant improvement and efficiency in the work of the state administration, which will directly affect the improvement of respect for human rights in the Republic of Serbia, which will ensure the same protection of citizens' rights in the territory of the entire Republic. With regard to the rights of persons deprived of liberty, the Citizens' Protector said in a report that the largest number of complaints against violations of rights had just come from those persons, and that the conditions in prison institutions were bad. In order to address this problem, the National Assembly will ultimately oblige the Government of the Republic of Serbia to take appropriate measures to improve the position of citizens in relation to authorities, when it comes to persons deprived of liberty, and above all by further developing and increasing the efficiency of existing internal mechanisms of control, building a police detention surveillance system, as well as improving conditions in institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions and detention facilities. The 2013 Citizens' Protector's Report dealt with the situation and analysis and in the area of protection of other rights, which are not minor, but because of the size of the matter, it would not analyse them at this time. What I can conclude by analysing and looking at the full report is that in 2013, the Republic of Serbia progressed in most segments dealing with the Citizens' Protector, but that in almost all segments it is necessary to significantly strengthen the role of the state in creating conditions for effective protection of citizens' rights. Also, I think it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to propose amendments to the existing legal solutions on the Citizens' Protector, which will bring these solutions into line with the real needs of the Citizens' Protectors in their work so far and which will contribute to a easier and more effective achievement of the protection of the rights and freedom of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2643	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2644	The Honorable Chairman, honored guests, dear fellow MPs, will focus mainly on three topics. The first topic is the protection of children's rights, the second protection of patients' rights, so health care and the third topic relating to the field of work. When we talk about children's rights, we've done a lot of work in the past as far as children's health care, pregnant women, maternity care is concerned. I think we did well at one critical moment when we had a large number of firms in restructuring and a large number of children, the wife of employees in these companies were left without health insurance. In an adequate way it was intervened, so we avoided the negative consequences and practically all children up to 18 years of life were given their legal right to health care, i.e. to treatment. What we need to take care of in the future is the promotion of child protection, especially children with special needs, because I don't think that inclusion has taken place anywhere in the right sense, on the one hand something because of ignorance, something because of lack of conditions, and something because of an inadequate community response when children with special needs are concerned. This is an area of action to which we should certainly pay special attention, and this is another way of seeing and seeing new employment of assistants that will provide adequate and educational and care and help children with special needs, to get involved in normal life and to become full-time citizens who will contribute to the development of our society. The third thing we're talking about is protecting children's rights, we need to look back at children who are practically criminals. He's referring to minors' faces as perpetrators of crimes. I think we should pay a little more attention, have more educational orders, and a little more stringent measures to serve the sentence for some kind of violation that's been committed. This remains on a multidisciplinary approach when it comes to justice and the protection of the rights and of these children. Of course, in this group of children there are children with special needs and with reduced intellectual levels, who are abused in certain situations by children who are not, and are in the same accommodation capacity. I think for such children we should have special and educators and psychologists, because they also deserve and in some situations it is possible that they are not aware of the works they have done. The third thing we should also pay attention to is the adoption of a law establishing the truth about missing babies. It's something that's burdened us for many years, and it's about a period practically from the 1950s to today. My proposal is that when this law is passed, it is mandatory to make sure that no legal restrictions are imposed, but that this work is an act that cannot be outdated. That way we can ensure an equal relationship for missing babies from the '60s, '70s and '80s. If we look at the resources of health, we had a good change of laws in our health, and we had a good change of the Labour Act, where we had protection and pregnant women, and when we talk about protecting the Law on Patients' Rights, we can say that in that part it was allowed the patient to practically choose the opinion of another doctor rather than only one doctor. It wasn't so often before. We know that doctoral vanity is something that is very pronounced, so this law has allowed patients to exercise their right to another opinion of their health. As for the Law of Labour, Amendments and Supplements, I think the law is what it is. We have a big job to do the new Labour Act. I think that's what we should be keeping an eye on inspection. The law can be perfect, but if there is no adequate inspection supervision and if we do not have adequate monitoring of what employers do, we will always have attempts to work on black and always diminish the work of a group of employees, whether it is gender discrimination, of some kind of discrimination. I think that in all segments we need to strengthen that inspection surveillance, so that we have law enforcement in the right way. I think the SNS will be actively involved in this, and as far as this report is concerned, we will adopt it, because we consider it appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2645	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2646	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the regular annual reports of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2013, then, the Protector of Citizens and Third, on freedom of access to information. Of course we will accept these reports, with certain recommendations to these institutions that these institutions can and do not have to accept. It is our job to make recommendations, to give certain visions, and it is up to them to accept or eventually refuse, depending on what we suggest. These reports gave us the recording or intersection of the state of our society, or the state of functioning of the even system, in particular the exercise of the rights of our citizens not only in 2013, but for the last 10 years, because we were a society in transition, we did not have these institutions and the initial steps of society in transition, there were mistakes. I'll tell you what, it's up to us to make it right, not these three institutions, but I mean state bodies, public enterprises, citizens of Serbia. These reports should be well studied by all state services, each for itself, by all political parties to have, on the table, all directors of public enterprises, all educational institutions, from kindergarten to university. So here today I'm just going to say about two problems, where I think we're wrong, and possibly in the future, these institutions, we're going to try to make a difference in walking, and we're going to force the right things. You see here there's talk of violence against women, especially domestic violence. You believe, as a man, I'm shocked by the fact that in 2013, 40 women lost their lives by our men, and in the first four months, according to my data this year, 10 women in the family of violence. This calls for an alert. Who? All the factors of society. I'll be very specific in one, so I'll say where we may have been wrong, and where we should correct mistakes. Where are we wrong, like a system in transition in general? We didn't accept all the positive fluids of former systems civilization and possibly further perfected these systems, but we broke up and made an empty walk. Look, we're talking about violence, and there's a mistake. No, ladies and gentlemen, violence needs these three institutions to speak. We need to talk about education. If we raise our children in schools, in kindergartens, in families, in the street, here in the Assembly, there will be no violence. He will, but we'll bring him down to a minimum. We keep dealing with the consequences, we don't reveal the causes. The causes are important to us, and we are told about the consequences by special experts, psychologists. I'm sorry, I don't mind, but where are our pedagogues? Have you seen the state service of a pedagogist in the last 10 years? Give me the information, if it is. Let me say a few words. In kindergartens, we need to talk about gender equality. In elementary schools, we have curricula and programs, but we don't talk. We're talking violence. We've reversed the process. There was a mistake in the transition. Our goal is to make violence less and less. I know some people disagree with what I say, because they're going to lose their jobs from certain organizations, and that costs this country, our children, and our society as a whole. This information in the reports that 40 women in 2013 were victims, lost their lives to us men is misery and misery of the male race, I'm ashamed to belong, regardless of the occasion, ladies and gentlemen. I appeal, not to these three regulatory bodies, but to the Ministry of Education. Let us return to school, to the family, to the street, to public enterprises, to state authorities, so if you will, to political parties, if you will, in this high home, there will be less hatred, less violence and, believe it or not, less need for these three regulatory bodies. It won't be necessary to team up 50 or 100, it might take three or five. That's the goal. It's not meant to be 30 or 50. Are they teamed up by experts? Are the educational institutions teamed up? Are we making educational plans and programs? We don't make, ladies and gentlemen. Our teachers and professors at the university of professional seminars, believe it or not, sometimes hold people with medium professional training, and they have no idea about it. There's a problem. The problem is the system, not these bodies. Let's go out in the open and tell how we've been in the last 15 years of community service. You had an example that you wanted to pay taxes, and you can't pay taxes in a year, because they don't know how to charge it. When they criticized this government today, this government didn't take it. She's the least. These are previous governments, but it doesn't matter. I don't want to criticize it. Let's change that. We need, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of these three institutions, effective service, but should also be in public enterprises, kindergartens, schools. That's where we've been taking people from the street for the last 15 years. Today the biggest victim in the education system is educational workers, believe me. They were left in the wind. Not to get into who can be an educational worker. Hairdressers came for educators. One part of us deals with it and we write papers, so we have statistics. You're all right, Mr. Jankovic, you said the inspections were a problem. Let's talk about it in this congregation. If you want to talk about the name and last name of every inspector in the last 15 years... It's the biggest tragedy. They are in charge of the control of legality, and what they are to us, there are honest inspectors, honest people. That's the problem, that's the brake, which all three regulatory bodies point to. It's very embarrassing to talk when I see these three regulatory bodies going into expertise. I know why you're doing this, gentlemen from the regulatory bodies. Because you feel sorry for our youth, and someone else should. You can make recommendations, but as far as professional matters are concerned, they are educational institutions, public enterprises, certain ministries and state bodies. In that sense, we lost our system in transition. When this government came to the fore, I will repeat this sentence, no matter how different, if in four years it succeeds in stopping the collapse of the state, the Nobel Prize should be given to it because we have brought down all the institutions of the system. Let me say two sentences to say about the media. I agree, Mr. Commissioner, that you wrote this way in the report: “They are guaranteed freedom, but also to citizens of true and objective and timely information. ” Let's be objective, are those the media? You can, I apologize to the honorary press, buy information for 50 euros, and tomorrow you'll be in the press. That's the problem. The question was the profession of professors at the university, in kindergarten, journalists, politicians, doctors and all of us in general. Speaking of which, let me say that some media is so muddy about government representatives, I'll be open to it, it's bordering on common sense. One medium so many lies, hate pours out to the Prime Minister, it's bordering on common sense. Installations are not only done in the media, but also in some state bodies and outside state authorities. That's what you gentlemen need to talk about. When it was installed for the son of the Prime Minister, no one from the opposition answered, and I certainly didn't see any other organs. It's not about the Prime Minister, it's about the average citizen. We need to disarm the system we inaugurated 15 years ago. I believe the system will be deactivated. I know the Prime Minister, I know the SNS, there's no force to stop them, because the citizens support them. Citizens are asking for a system of lies, corruption, robbery to be disarmed. Knowing how much they love this country and the citizens of Serbia, and we support them, and you, ladies and gentlemen of these regulatory bodies, we will not give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2647	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2648	Mr. Chairman, distinguished representatives of regulatory bodies, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we have a debate on three very important reports on the agenda – Report of the Citizens' Protector, Report on the work of Commissioners for the Protection of Equality and Report on the implementation of the law on free access to information from public importance and the Data Protection Act. I think all three reports are very useful and that the aim of these reports is to show for the good, but at the same time to point to certain weaknesses in the functioning of institutions and the need to strengthen institutions in the coming period and to do their job in accordance with the Constitution and the law. It is particularly important and essential to establish an effective and fair judiciary on the one hand and an effective state administration on the other. It is also very important to strengthen inspection services because without effective inspection services, we cannot also talk about the implementation and respect of the principles of rule of law. In my performance, I will limit myself to one segment that, in my opinion, is not included in the Civil Protection Report for 2013, and I think it is very important. In the opening part of the Citizens' Protection Report, vulnerable target groups are listed, especially children, persons with disabilities, then LGBT women, national minorities and refugees and displaced persons. However, when we look at the contents of the Citizens' Protection Report, we see that these five target groups are specifically processed, meaning from one to two, five children's rights, the rights of national minorities, gender equality and the rights of LGBT persons, the rights of persons with disabilities and the rights of persons deprived of liberty and the national torture prevention mechanism. However, nowhere in the Report except that they are mentioned at the outset and yet in one place with one or two words, there is no question about the problems of the population. I believe that refugees and displaced persons should have received a special chapter in the Citizens' Protection Report not only for 2013, but also for the next period. For what? There's a lot of reasons. First, about half a million expelled Serbs live in Serbia. More than 300,000 from Croatia, more than 200,000 from the Federation of BiH and lives over 200,000 internally displaced persons from KIM. The nearly 10% of Serbia's population faces a number of problems, on the one hand, the achievement of their property, acquired, status and other rights taken from them in places where they were expelled, on the one hand, but with a number of problems in the process of integration in local communities in Serbia. First, I'm going to talk about the first aspect of the problem. The first problem of a large number of refugees, internally displaced persons, is the issue of housing. The Citizens' Protector Report speaks in the social policy segment on the concept of social housing, on issues related to the implementation of the Social Housing Act, however, this problem is not touched at all. Namely, a large number of refugees and displaced persons have lived for nearly two decades, and a part of them even 23 years since their exile into the status of tenants. For 23 years, they pay each month rent to the owners of the apartments or houses they live in. If these people had been provided with loans in that amount they had paid, they would now literally have their own apartments, and they wouldn't have to throw money into the well and never own that apartment or the house they live in. In the previous period, the countries did not do much to address these needs, especially by 2012. We have about 3,000 housing units built by means of international organisations. We have 500 apartments built by the Italian government, but a large number of other people unfortunately haven't solved their housing issue. The public probably knows it was founded so-called. A regional housing fund by the international community aimed at helping address the housing needs of displaced persons in Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. However, in realising this problem in Serbia, we face problems. What are the key problems? The funds from that housing fund need to be addressed through the assignment of a package of building materials to the persons who started building houses, buying houses, buying rural properties, building apartments. We have problems in the City of Belgrade and it is a criticism of the previous government of Belgrade that has not done enough to adopt regulatory plans, especially for settlements where displaced persons have avoided building their houses. We have, for example, examples of refugee settlements in Altina 2, then Grmovac, Busi, Batajnica, Shanghai settlements in the municipality of Zemun, but also settlements in the municipality of Palilula, such as Borca, Ovca, Krgnač and other parts of the city of Belgrade, where the international community is now providing funds, but in order for people to compete for construction materials and assembly houses, they must draw local permits in the City of Belgrade Department of Urbanism. Since the previous city government has not adopted regulatory plans, it has been more than 15 years, now these people cannot get construction material and are in fact missing deadlines to resolve their housing issue. We think it's classic discrimination. I urge the city authority of Belgrade to adopt regulatory plans for the aforementioned settlements and a number of other settlements in the City of Belgrade and other local self-governments as soon as possible to avoid faces and have the opportunity to obtain construction material, retain their houses and be no more tenants. Also, I must say that no other state institution has been mentioned in the Citizens' Protection Report, which is the Commissioner for Refugees who is responsible for 700,000 expelled citizens from Croatia, BiH and KIM. Namely, as I mentioned, about 2,000 built housing facilities in which living evasive persons are still not legally regulated. In May 2010, the Serbian Parliament passed a Law on Refugees where it finally allowed these 2,000 families to buy these apartments and houses. However, the Refugee Commissioner has not yet prepared the contracts and has not yet allowed those contracts to regulate the property issue and to be entered as property owners. People live in a legal uncertainty and fear that perhaps one day someone will not take those houses and apartments away from them. I think it's very important for the Citizens' Protector to pay attention to that part of the refugees. A particular problem is, as I mentioned, 530 families whose apartments were built by the Italian government during 2007 and 2008. These 530 apartments were built in seven cities, Nis, Chačka, Valjev, Kragujevac, Pancheva and Stari Pazova. However, unlike these 2,000 families who have the right to buy out the 2010 Refugees Act, these 530 families did not receive the right to buy out. It's the same thing when you have three kids and two kids get chocolate from their father and mother and one doesn't get it. Now you have, for example, a German government building in Nis city, conditioned that Germany has given funds. These families have the right to buy these apartments, though, as I said, not yet completed through contracts, and you have a building of the Italian government where the same population is a refugee, displaced who has no right to ransom. How can you explain to the refugee families living in this building built by the Italian government that they have no right to ransom? For years, we've been fighting to get those 530 families the right ransom. We had a series of meetings. Unfortunately, it was not accepted in May 2010 when a new Refugee Act was adopted to allow one member to buy the 530 families as well. I would also appeal to the Protector to pay attention to those 530 families that are absolutely discriminated against. We started talks with former building minister Mr. Ilic on the subject that the government would adopt a regulation that would allow these 530 families to be even with these 2,000 who already have the right to ransom. I'm afraid that's not over. We hope that in talks with Mrs. Mihajlovic and the resolution minister, we will finally resolve the issue and allow these people to be leveled in their rights. Also, there were a lot of problems in the previous period in Belgrade during a social housing contest, where you had rules that were often discriminatory in their elements. For example, you had a rule book where it's said that the right to compete for social housing has families if they have below 80% of the average personal income. You have, for example, one family where, say, the average was two or three years ago 31,000, and that family had 33,000. The wife had a salary of 33,000, and the husband and daughter didn't work. In fact, because only one member of the family is employed, for two thousand they have crossed that condition to compete and remain tenants. It's our opinion that we should be looking at averages per family member, not the whole family. So it turns out that if a man is single and has a salary of 30,000, he can compete, and if you have five members of the family who have a income of 33,000, they don't have the right to compete. They're absolutely discriminated against right to compete to get a social apartment. I urge the Guardian to pay particular attention to the question of housing. We now see this tragedy of the flood and see what ails the evacuees, with whom we sympathise, to wait for them to return to their homes in a month or two or three. Now imagine people who live as tenants for 15, 20, 23 years and can't wait for the day they live in their living quarters. It's about a lot of faces. The other problem I'd like to talk about is citizenship. You mentioned in your report that there are problems, i.e. the competent administration in the MUP does not address the issue of obtaining citizenship or firing citizenship in time. We have a lot of our people who have applied for citizenship, or refugees, who have been waiting for years to be admitted into citizenship. We think it's unacceptable, that we really should cut deadlines to make these people get citizenship in a very short period of time. Then we have several thousand refugees who had refugee status. However, while the refugee status lasted, they did not apply for citizenship. They have abolished refugee status and now they have no legal opportunity to apply for citizenship. They're legally invisible faces, and these people just don't exist. We need to see a way to make it easier for these people. Is it perhaps possible for them to have a Commissioner for Refugees re-armed refugee status for three months, to be able to apply for citizenship, to get citizenship and then take out their ID card and regulate the issue of their legal status? The next problem I'd like to talk to you about is the question of a military internship. The public knows that during Republika Srpska, from 1991 to 1995, almost a complete male population in Krajina was mobilized and were in units of JNA, territorial defence, police, etc. We have a large number, most of those citizens who until May 19, 1992, before the founding of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, have not recognised the war effort. People think that's where they're damaged. Also, all Krajisniks, people from those parts who have been on the battlefield for four years, believe they should be recognised as a military internship by August 5, 1995, until the end of the war. We even have that individuals, like officers, officers, who were led by units in the Krajina area, are recognised as a double-term wartime internship. These officers themselves say - we now have eight years of military training, and not one of my soldiers I commanded at company, battalion, brigade level has been recognized until May 19, 1992. Who am I in charge of, if I'm granted an eight-year-old wartime, and my soldier's never been recognized for a day of wartime? We also believe that there is discrimination. We have information, Mr. Jankovic, that some citizens have sent you submissions on these issues, and we would pray for a meeting on the subject in the next period, to see, indeed, that these people really get the recognition they deserve. If they were really there, they should be recognized for their dual-term military service, not for their commanders and not for them as soldiers. These are the basic problems in the process of integration of refugees. Like I said, it's a matter of housing, citizenship and the question of recognition of a military internship. The other basket of problems I'd like to mention are these rights I'm talking about. We felt that in this particular chapter on the exchange of war crimes should have stood one chapter, or part in that chapter, where the Citizens' Protector would have analysed the implementation of interstate agreements. We have, and this is for us the Bible, for all people from those parts who have been expelled, whose property has not been returned, the Vienna Agreement on Succession, an interstate agreement, which is under international law, on the conditions of BiH, Croatia and Serbia and has stronger legal power than any domestic law, and it is practically generalised in much part. We always highlight Annex G, which is called – private property, acquired rights, which guarantee people the rights they had on 31.12.1990. If Croatia is an EU member, if Croatia has closed the negotiations on Chapter 23 – Justice and Human Rights, Croatia has turned out to be the most standard in the area of justice and human rights and should be an example for all countries in the region. We have hundreds of thousands of citizens who can't achieve their rights, 40,000 seized tenants' rights, 50,000 expelled Serbs who can't get back their outstanding pensions, over 10,000 destroyed houses in classical terrorist actions in Croatian cities, over 800,000 seized catastrian plots of agricultural, forest and construction land. People in court proceedings cannot exercise their rights. We have several working groups with Croatia. We have the Working Group on Missing Persons, the Working Group on War Crimes, the Working Group on Pensions under the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Working Group on Borders and the Working Group on the implementation of the International Agreement on the Protection of the Croatian Minority in Serbia and the Serb Community in Croatia. It would be very important for us that the Citizens' Protector see how these commissions work. They were founded five, seven, ten and over years ago. What are the effects of these commissions working? We expect the results of these commissions. The public knows that in 1996 an agreement on normalisation of the relationship between then and Croatia was signed. Article 7 said a damages commission would be formed. This means that all citizens whose property has been destroyed will be compensated for the damage. The commission started working in 1997, and in 1999 it stopped working. As far as we know, it wasn't formally lifted. We want to know what's going on with that commission. In order to be a complete normalisation of the relationship between Serbia and Croatia now, the commission must complete its task, prepare a draft compensation agreement for all destroyed, damaged and missing assets. In that sense, Mr. Jankovic, we believe that there should have been a special chapter here for 500,000 expelled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH and over 200,000 internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija. We think that they deserve this chapter and that all these aspects and the issue of problems in the process of integration and the question of the exercise of taken property and other rights in countries of origin, or in places where they lived until exile, must have a very important place, because without paying attention to these problems, we are not consistent in the story of respect for human rights. We either respect and insist on respecting the human rights of all citizens, or we make a selection. I therefore appeal to you that in the next 2014 report, you have one special chapter regarding this vulnerable group and to see what institutions are doing, or are doing, in solving these problems. In the end, I just want to realize that I, myself, or the SNS parliamentary group, will support all three of these reports, because we think they are very useful and that I can only contribute to Serbia becoming a modern state in which the principle of rule of law will be dominant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2649	The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic has the word, and let the People's MP Marijan Rističević be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2650	Thank you, Chairman. First, let me say thank you to the Commissioners present and the Citizens' Protector for what they are doing in this Serbia. Of course it's a tough job. For that job, you should also have a strong spine, and a little courage, a lot of knowledge and faith that something can change from those positions. What you said in your opening statements, according to the number of items you receive, all over the atmosphere in which you work, what happens to your advice, suggestions and findings, above all in public enterprises, the government and some other institutions, and it is clear to the Serbian public, that the work you do is difficult, and that is because Serbia is still far from a modern, democratic, European society. Of course it's not your fault, it's the fault of those who hold power in this country and who represent that authority today and those who represented that authority in some years before that. I think the biggest problem in Serbia right now is that the current rule of human rights, people's desire for information and equality are considered a warrant outside, a warrant from the west, one blackmail, one condition for some of the things we need, it is seen daily. In addition to all the good words about the fact that we are all for the rule of law, for the market economy, for the availability of information, for society without discrimination, real life shows us the opposite every day. Here, let's say, one piece of information that is completely insignificant in relation to everything that happens in one country, including Serbia, is one contract between an "Etyhad" and the Serbian government, and related to Er Serbia. As I recall, the Information Commissioner issued a warrant to make it public. Today, we don't have that information, no matter what people who are in the highest state office, even the Prime Minister himself, say they're going to publish it, so they're going to publish it before the election, so they're going to publish it together with the "Fiita," without the "Fiita". Today we are deprived of that information and of course I, as well as the Serbian public, can assume that there is something wrong with it. Because if it were good, it would have already been published, even on the front pages of what's being sold on kiosks, and it's not a newspaper. We still have a lot of examples like that. We have, say, the right for citizens to be treated, to be treated. A few weeks ago, we had amendments to the law in which it was first concluded that there was an surplus of funds in Serbian health, so that the surplus was about 260m euros per year, and then that surplus should be taken from Serbian health, so that there would be a huge hole in the pension fund. This directly affects the right of people to be treated, the basic conditions for their treatment. Yesterday, the day before, I see in the paper that only pharmacies in Serbia, so part of Serbia's healthcare is owed to suppliers of 90m euros and some million euros, and here we have concluded that it is an excess of 260m. So it's incorrect for both of us. It's not a question of bookkeeping and finance, it's a question of people's ability to heal, and that's one serious human right. A party that everyone promised would be abolished, of course, nothing happened here and when a child graduates from high school and asks his parents what to sign up for a job after, then usually his parent tells him – get into a party, it's the best thing for your future. We have fear in Serbia, fear of asking a question. Fear of asking to check whether plagiarism is a doctorate or not, especially if that doctorate is carried by someone who should fight crime in this Serbia. We've got media manipulation every day. We have censorship of the worst kind. Of course, that's what the report says, and I'd love to see who asked me that, I doubt he read the report... (President: The time foreseen for your presentation is just running out. ) I thank you very much, but this did not solve the problems in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2651	The People's Messenger, Marijan Risticevic, has the word, and let the MP Vladimir Pavicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I agree that human rights should be protected especially by our farmers, whether we live in the Wizard or live in the New Carlovites. The Declaration of Human Rights is universal and it must embrace the rights of our farmers, even the right when we are not satisfied with the press to tear up the newspaper. When we farmers tear up a newspaper, and we run for prime minister, then none of these independent regulatory bodies answer, but if there is one grain of sand missing in the "Sand" section, then that's another story. Then the rights of farmers are forgotten, then they move directly to defending the rights of citizens, in terms of only those who live in the city. Last year, a little later than now, we adopted these reports. I remember here my statement was called false, that the Guardian of Citizens warned me that I had blatantly slandered his colleague, that I was reporting information that I didn't find in the report and asked for those data to be carried out in that report. There was a big round of applause from a political party and in support of the applause, today I brought a yellow folder, expecting that this time there would be a thunderous round of applause from honest people. Namely, what's this about? I'm last year, and I'm going to say right now that I'm not voting for the Commissioner's report on the protection of equality. Last year, I had a remark that some things were not included in that report. I was called what I was called. My exposure is qualified as qualified, but, look at the wonders! There was a budget inspection there, and in this today's 2013 report, it doesn't say what the budget inspection found in 2013. Well, it says, and of course I have the record, I'm not speaking in my mind, regardless of the possible applause, it says – that the Trustee for the Protection of Equality in her report did not state that the budgetary inspection from May to November 2013 controlled her work. The inspection was sent by the Anti-Corruption Agency. The inspection has found a number of irregularities. The agency also filed criminal charges against the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which was combined with a private criminal report filed last year. The application is still standing somewhere in the prosecution drawer. It also writes -- the budget inspection ordered the Trustee to return two and a half million dinars to the budget because she purposelessly spent them on work contracts. She forgot to mention it in the financial part of her report. She concluded a contract with the "Miros" agency without public procurement. Through them, she paid for 1.8 million dinars without public procurement, broke the law. It also writes -- it was ordered to explain why, and that was the purpose of my report last year, remarks on reports, the UNDP transferred 8.5 million dinars to the UNDP, which was then over $100,000 to visit Australia, where the Aboriginal Inclusion Project was then held and 8.5 million dinars were transferred, which would not have been a problem if it had been in last year's report. The budget inspection found what I claimed and said it was also transferred, unfounded 2,513,761 dinar and 32. On this basis, the budgetary inspection has, of course, provided measures to return 2,513,761 dinar to the account of the Republic of Serbia, which relate to non-purposely spent funds paid on the basis of a contract for the project of the formerly "Progress", to ensure that evidence of non-purpose and legal use of the funds transferred in favour of the United Nations programme of 8.5 million dinars, which was not in the last year's report. Since it wasn't in last year's report either, and there's no report in this report that the budget inspection found it, since last year I was accused of lying with a thunderous applause, I'm not going to vote for this report either, because if I did, then it would be lunched with what I had here as a piece of information that I received from the Ministry of Finance – Departments for Budgetary Inspection since 3.12.2013. Ladies and gentlemen, the second report I won't vote for is the Citizens' Protector's Report. The report shall be submitted in writing, not in writing. It's an important report, very important, it's not a Community Community Report, and I'm carefully reading all the materials of my dear colleagues, don't laugh, it's not funny at all. I read all these materials and regardless of the average salary, which is seen from the budget by 75 employees and spent 101 million earnings, which is around 115,000 and 120,000 dinars per month. The citizen's protector has four assistants, where he has a cabinet of seven employees, where he has some secretary general, we didn't deserve a report like this. On page 192, paragraph 4. "in this process", instead of "in this process", instead of two words, one word. Two lower "debates" instead of "debates held", writes as I read. Further on, 193rd page, the second "protector" position instead of "protector's" would be in Serbian. Page 196 says "social", I don't know what that word is, very interesting. Let's move on, since the Citizens' Protector refused some complaint as messy, with the same argument, I call on colleagues to reject this report as messy, since he dismissed 492 complaints as messy. Then you have on the 200th "provodivode" side instead of "provided advisoryly", which would be in Serbian. Then you have on page 201. "Organy", a strange word, I'll have to look after Vujaklia. Then you have on page 203. "the highest percentage of execution", and rightly it would be "the highest percentage of execution", this little bit like Srecko Sojic. Let's move on, this is a very serious report and it came to a high home in very serious form, as I can see, since it didn't come in writing, on page 206. "Proposal" instead of "Proposal of Law". On the same side, you have a "containment procedure" instead of "containment". Then you have page 207. Anexa 1. a very small document, but two mistakes, for that money, for 101,000,000, I would write it for 101,000 dinars, however, and for 10,000 dinars, far more in writing. It is said in paragraph 3 – on 31.1.2013, in the professional service of the Protector of Citizens “were 75 employees”, which is the word “fucked” because it literally writes so. In the next position, it says very briefly – 54 women were employed in the professional service and “21 men”, instead of “21 men”. Immediately in that same attitude “extended 28”, instead of “extended 28”. And finally "Serbian" instead of "Serbian number". So how do you vote for such a report? On page 209. "Deligradskabrom" instead of "Deligradska brom". Then on page 209, "Edenicombi", amazing but true, you can see for yourself, because the question is whether the Citizens' Protector even read his report or if someone put it that way. On page 210. "At the end of the day" instead of "After the Temporary", and then in Annex 2, in the budget on page 212, I couldn't understand this figure – 22396,52,00 dinars. I don't know if it's two million and 239 grand, if they're wrong at the point or the point, mostly the number can't have two decimals, but look at the case, there is, so I can't possibly know how much the lease of business space came out. So it says 22.396,52,00 dinars, some weird figures, it's probably for some other currency that it's not even meant for here. Ladies and gentlemen, you can do whatever you want, and I'm reading everything carefully, and I'm not thinking of voting for a report like this in this form, for that money, for the Protector of citizens who have 75 employees, which totals 101 million, that's 115,000. Just to remind you that the receipts in the Assembly are below 40,000 dinars. So it's not controversial that there's high incomes, that it balances, but there's a pay range 1:10. Those who write may have taken revenge, may have low wages, so whoever says, they have ten times my salary, which I don't care how much I'm paid to knock. So the pay range in these independent regulatory bodies is very strange and moving, instead of being 1:2, 1:3 and 1:4, but 1:10 and 1:11, it's a lot, and it's a lot when you have seven people in the cabinet, when you have a secretary, four deputies, etc. These days we heard a fight when something touched those employees, it's like you touched a "holy cow". So let's move on, my party's site is blocked and no one's been causing a problem. I don't understand, if someone wants to deal with politics, he needs to go to a political party to join or start his own, but when someone's the Guardian of Citizens, so when he says about comments, including journalists, more and more often lies, now you see him, now you don't see him, a very dangerous tendency, and then I ask which journalist is gone? Let's move on, the state has a duty to protect and prevent criticism. The censorship is unconstitutional. I agree, but I'm looking for an answer, which censorship? Let's move on, and what will protect the citizens of the associates, when the building is established as the headquarters of the institution, and I ask the lawyers here, therefore, what is illegal, and what is illegal and who determines it. It determines the court. If this is written by the Guardian of Citizens, I understand it as his political position. He says that today, populism lost the battle, even though it had no active resistance, and it was shot with the strongest weapon, money, and crisis, that people were massively despised, great. It goes on, Hope Kolundji told me – make sure that because of the criticism of the government they do not come worse than we do. This is not the language of the Guardian of Citizens, this is the language of politicians to me. You can, for some reason, because someone thinks they're like white bears, really protected institutions, to vote for this. I don't want to vote on it for the following reason: when it touches the Sandstone or a grain of sand, then we're in trouble. I'll file other cases. The case, Ratko Skrbic, was banned from promoting the book on Srebrenica, although it collected documents from The Hague tribunal. No one was worried about that. Boris Malagurski, who, due to the film "The Presumption of Justice", which deals with the controversy of the Taton case, called on the internet for violence against Malagurski and his co-worker. One of the Internet hooligans, convicted, works in the Sandstone. That's it. To those threats, the high-ranking official of one party and the Vice-President of the Vojvodina government wrote that he signed everything they had written about Malagurski, including threats. That's what's left unpunished. No one reacted. A newspaper journalist for a patriarch says, "The leader of a cleronist association that spreads hate." I'm a believer. This wasn't just an insult to the patriarch, it was an insult to me. The words contained in the Patriarch's comments say, "Black, stink, bastard, fascist." Did anyone react? The Patriarch has black clothes, but the problem seems to be that he's not a woman in black. If it was, then you'd see what kind of bireactions they were. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to protect human rights. The Declaration of Human Rights is universal. The perception of rights isn't real. The illusion of freedom is not freedom. The prospect of protection of freedom and justice is not the protection of freedom and justice. You can't enjoy one side of the right, and you can't challenge the same rights to the other. With that in mind, I want the Commissioner and the Protector of Citizens to tell me who is the creator of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and which date was adopted, given that I bet that's what I'd like you to answer me right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2653	The word is Neven Petrusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2654	Thank you. I wish the MP had been fully informed before he brought this information out. So he should have known what was going on after this data log, which he put out in this kind of a trendy way, what happened in the meantime. It happened that at the time the minutes were made, that it was the payments made from the budget for the implementation of a project financed by the European Commission, after that, on the basis of our financial documentation, the European Commission recognised the costs, that is 55,000 euros and, according to the Ministry of Finance's instructions, we returned that money to the budget. So this is the cost that the project had to be financed temporarily from the budget before it was completed in order to complete the project. As for the money transferred to the account of the UNDP, the UN organisation, the UN Development Agency, it is actually a joint project that we have implemented, it is a transfer of money with the ministry's consent. The UN Agency for Development and the Trustee for the Protection of Equality gave the Ministry of Finance all necessary documentation, including the basis for the transfer of these funds. These are not at all the funds that are listed here, for the journey I do not know where, but they are the means for the realization of the project that has been implemented and for which there is a report. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2655	Mr. Risticevic, on what basis are you looking for a word? (Marian Risticevic, from the place: I was misread. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2656	Well, if it wasn't slow, I wasn't talking in my head. I have in my hands a record on the control of the material and financial operations of the dedicated and legal use of funds, with the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality from Belgrade, the Ministry of Finance, the Office for Budgetary Inspection No. 40100-617/2013-37 of 03.12.2003. There's a record of everything I've stated. Chairman, you can see for yourself, and if what I'm saying isn't in the record, I'll resign. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality gave me no answer to my question as to who is the creator of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and what date was adopted and what year? (Nevena Petrusic, from the scene: You should know that this procedure is ongoing. You shouldn't blame and judge in advance. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2657	I'm sorry, Mrs Petrusic, you haven't asked for a word, or you haven't received a word yet. We in the National Assembly have rules that are regulated by the Rules of Procedure and, despite being a People's MP, during the course of the session, you are required to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't give you my word. If you want a word, ask for it. The word is Mr. Sasa Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2658	National MPs and citizens of Serbia should know that employees in the Civil Protection Service are paid by civil servants and that the same salary is paid by senior advisors in the National Assembly and in the professional service of the Citizens' Protectors, that the same salary is paid by a younger adviser in the National Assembly and in any ministry, except where there are bonuses on the salary, and a younger adviser in the professional service of the Citizens' Protectors and that they are completely incorrect claims about their salaries as far as they are made. Mr Risticevic should know that when the budget is presented, the total cost of salaries, that there are also contributions for employees. On the video that was made and mentioned today, it was said that the salary of those 19 people who were supposed to lose their jobs on average was three hundred thousand dinars. I said on one show, 42,000 dinars, it's average. I'm sorry, I was wrong. Today I got the exact information, 45,500 dinars is the average. So it's one thing to give grades, and I don't get involved in that right, but the other is to give the wrong facts. I mentioned that employees in the professional service have the same salary paid by civil servants with the same calling in other bodies, except for bodies whose officials carry out inspection and similar tasks. They have accessories. Employees at the Protector of Citizens carry out inspection, or similar tasks, but do not have any accessories. Employees at the Protector of the Citizens do not have an unfettered job experience, although they spend their time in prisons where the guards have an unfettered job experience. The employees of the Citizens' Protector can't even be raised by tennis courts in their circle. I can't even raise my fitness salami in my circle. Employees at the Protector of Citizens are doing exactly as they are right now in our society. I'd like to ask once again that the facts are presented, that they are presented correctly. Otherwise, it's not facts and it's not information, it's misinformation, and it's not only contributing to reducing authority on the incorrect basis of the Guardian of Citizens, it's this very home where these things happen. To your question, Mr. Risticevic, about when what was brought, who brought what, what were the dates, please, it's very easy. If you're interested, you can look online, in books. It's not my job to teach you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2659	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2660	Thank you. Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, you have this report, page 211, Annex 2, Table 20 – implementation of the 2013 budget, salaries, bonuses and wages on the basis of the labour price, extras for work longer than full-time, supplementary time spent on work, past work, sick for up to 30 days, salary benefits for work leave, annual leave, paid leave, other allowances and fees for employees, temporary employees, subsequent damages employed for unused vacation, total position 411 - 101,448.423,40 dinars. When you divide $110 million into 75 employees, you get that average I said. I also said that lower officials have very small salaries, but that's why assistants, citizens' protectors, his assistants, cabinet members have abnormally high salaries. When all this is divided, you get an average of 115,000. I claimed there was a salary range of approximately 1:10 and 1:15. That's what I'm talking about. If their report doesn't contain accurate data, then I lied, but then I didn't lie, but they lied to all of us. So 101,448,000 is in the profit position. As far as the contribution is concerned, it is not true that the contributions are included here because they are covered by the 412 and amounting to 16.485,747 dinars. For the sake of precision, viewers do, for the record, I'm not saying that everyone there has high wages. On the contrary. I claim that those who do business there have very low and miserable salaries, and that management has salaries ranging from 340 to 390 thousand dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2661	The word is Mr. Sasa Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2662	Now, Mr. Risticevic, you've made the exact facts clear. The salary of the Citizens' Protector, established by the 2005 Citizens' Protector Act, is equal to the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court. The salary of deputy citizens' protectors, who have four by law, established by the 2005 law, is equal to the salary of the Constitutional Court judge. I will remind you that since the law was passed, it is the law passed by the National Assembly and that the comparison of these salaries is fully in line with all the rules that apply in other countries. The second question is, what is this salary? I will remind you that it is the Administrative Board of the National Assembly that determines the wage coefficient and that it is he who has decided to pay the President of the Constitutional Court to be as much as it is, not on the proposal of the Guardian of Citizens, or on the proposal of the President of the Constitutional Court, and that this is the fact that the National Assembly is determined by the work of the Administrative Board. I will remind myself that, using my constitutional authority to propose amendments to the law, when I have put before this National Assembly the Law on limiting profits in the public sector, or in public agencies, attached amendments to that law, which were based on the following – the name of the law is changed and should be used to limit the total revenues from the public sector, not just for profit, because it is very well known and said so at the session of the Administrative Committee, that the salaries of some state officials are relatively small, but that their revenues are such that they exceed the amount of pay, that these revenues are insufficiently transparent and that, if the crisis is already, they should limit revenues from the public sector, and not only the formal salary. Protector of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia Sasa Jankovic, my smallness, the only income from the public sector that has his salary. He was never a member of any board of directors, of any supervisory board. He's never been paid out of the public budget for anything else, except for the fact that for his job, he's getting a profit under the law that you set out. My second amendment concerned who should be covered by the limit. Since the proposal for a law that finally and adopted included only some public agencies, it excluded some of the authorities or agencies that have the highest salaries in this country, e.g. The NBS, director of civil aviation, etc., my next amendment said that they should be limited and that it is a formal amendment, officially and officially, that the restriction of total income should cover all employees and officials in all state bodies, in all regional authorities, in all local authorities and in all the organisations that these bodies have established. Then I explicitly listed in the amendment, in Article 2 of that proposal to amend the law, all the state bodies covered by the Constitution, since the Civilian Protector is the state body prescribed by the Constitution, I also listed the Citizens' Protector, i.e. my littleness and all the other bodies and in Article 3, if I am not mistaken, gave an unusual interpretational provision, in the event of a doubt the provisions of this law have to be interpreted comprehensively, without exception. Dear People's MPs, if it was time to save in 2012, and it was, then we should have saved everyone. I condemned a long-standing statement from my esteemed colleague, President DRI, who at that time, I will remind the President of the DRI, not the DRI, who at that moment had a significantly higher salary than I, and who was legally excluded from the limit, I said that it was very unusual for me that he publicly supported the adoption of a law whose application...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2663	I'm sorry, don't talk about people who aren't present right now. If we're going to have a debate between you two, no problem, but please stay in the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2664	I'm about to make a living. Once again, I hope that will remove any doubt about the facts. Employees in the professional service of the Protector of Citizens have identical salaries, i.e. basic salaries, minimum, without any additions, without any additional inspection, as well as employees of any other State body with an appropriate calling. The Guardian of Citizens has the same salary as the President of the Constitutional Court. I'm telling you, as much as you determine that this salary will be, it will be, and it will be, but if the Guardian of Citizens doesn't do his job well, then change it, but you won't be able to explain to anyone why these salaries should be separated now, as the trustee has the Supreme Court's salary, as the trustee has the salary, if I'm not mistaken, judges of the Supreme Court. If the salary doesn't fit, this home is the one that can change it, and I've done so much that I formally proposed to this home to amend the law that would make my salary, but without any exception in the state, if we're a state, then we're one state, not more states, limited to a limit of 150,000 while the crisis is going on. You, or the National Assembly, refused that proposal, I'm sure, not because of me, and you know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2665	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2666	Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, today we are discussing important reports on the work of important institutions and we are also discussing proposals for conclusions on these reports. Based on a report by the Trustee on the Protection of Equality for 2013 and on the regular annual report by the Citizens' Protector for 2013, and also on the report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Meaning and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2013, which the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning submitted, I believe that, based on all these reports today, we can do one very important thing, to judge the degree of development of our democracy. Were we able to conclude by reading these reports that we have stepped both as a state, and as an institution, and as a society in a process of consolidation of our democracy, are we standing in a place or are we perhaps stepping backwards? According to these reports, and even the suggestions of the conclusions on these reports, I think we're walking backwards. Here, I'd like to show you how I came to that conclusion. Take, for example, a regular annual report by the Protector of Citizens. In order to be able to judge normally this report, we need to know what it is? The Ombudsman represents an independent body, I hope that all MPs here know this, whose responsibility is to protect and promote the rights of citizens and control the legality and regularity of the work of authorities and organisations entrusted with public authority. Instead of strengthening the control mechanisms at the disposal of the Citizens' Protector over a period of time, for example, to better determine the responsibility of the public authorities, we have experienced a reduction in independence, for example. this body. So I understood a passage from page 26 of this report, which I would like to read here now. The paragraph reads as follows: “The provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System Article 6 paragraph 3. The Ombudsman is obliged, together with other independent control bodies, to seek the consent of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly, through the Youth and Student Cooperatives, as well as the recruitment of persons on other grounds, on the basis of a contract of temporary and occasional jobs, regardless of what the job in question is provided for in the Staff Plan, the Systemisation Act, which is a need for it and which is provided for it in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. “ So, the Guardian of Citizens, I also judge on the basis of this example, on the basis of this paragraph, and other independent bodies are put in a more unfavourable position. I think it's important that we ask a question here. Why are we reducing the independence of this body? Why are the institutions in our country weak? Furthermore, on page 148, I read this report carefully, did not encounter these grammatical and spelling remarks that are being placed here. It all looks very good to me, in writing. Gragmatically correct. On page 148, it clearly states – that in the portfolio of state administration and local self-government, the Protector of citizens does not record more significant achievements during 2013. Does that serve us as some kind of warning? Furthermore, page 102 reads that the Ministry of Education has tried to ban public criticism and challenge the expertise and authority of the Citizens' Protectors in connection with the failure of the Ministry of Education, which are unprecedented in the history of Serbian education. That's one hell of a criticism from the executive. Champions in failing to implement recommendations, based on this report, are public enterprises, ministry administrations and the ministry itself, as the primary authorities of the state administration. I'm taking the citizens' protector's report here as an example, but I've read these other two reports and conclusions. I can only conclude that by discussing these reports today and the proposals for conclusions we can talk today about the nature of the executive government in Serbia. It's a government, as I understand it, which does not respond to appeals, reading reports that do not respond to binding decisions, and according to these reports, we have a power that avoids the supervision of independent control bodies. It's important here to say. I will vote for the adoption of the report and the proposal for conclusions on the reports, because it is a vote to strengthen institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2667	Since there are no more entries for the word, and before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96, want the word. Rules of Procedure? The word is Mr. Sasa Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2668	In this final address for today, I would like to look back at everything that was contentiously heard about reports for the past year. Before he does, I want to say that I am extremely grateful to everyone for the comments, the criticisms, the praises, the suggestions I've heard today. All of this, certainly, is significant because it speaks about how MPs, representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see the topics covered by this report. First, I'm gonna say something about what we are, because today we've been hearing about independent regulatory bodies. Neither of us is the regulatory body, either. There are four single-member bodies in this country. There are collective bodies, such as the Constitutional Court, mentioned earlier, where decisions are made by a majority of votes. There are incoherent organs, such as the ministries, where there is one boss, but the organ of the ministry, not that man. There are four organs where people are chosen by name to perform a constitutional function. The president of the state is Tomislav Nikolic, the Commissioner for Equality is Nevena Petrusic, the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection is Rodoljub Sabic and My Minority – Protector of Citizens. We have our professional services, we have deputies, and we answer before you. Everything he writes here has been done by the Guardian of Citizens, not by the body. As far as regulation is concerned, it is regulatory bodies that regulate a specific area autonomously from the executive authority and from the legislative authority. Like, it's Ratel. They arrange the work of companies dealing with electronic communications. There are others. What's our feature is that we control, not the work of the media, not the work of the operator, not the work of the telephony provider, but the work of other authorities. That's the difference. I hope you don't get what I'm saying wrong, because you're all saying how these organs came into existence. In historical terms, yes, but it's been so long that we don't have to take ourselves back in some way. You don't accept our reports. We fought it. There was a great battle during one of the previous authorities that... (Zoran Babic, from the place: What? I can't remember exactly who the Prime Minister was, but that was three years ago. Mirko Cvetkovic was prime minister. You know, Mr. Granny, I don't hesitate to say what I said. It was a great battle to avoid the intended change of Rules of Procedure to adopt reports of independent authorities, control authorities because these are our reports. You in my report can conclude that I'm unprofessional and relieve me, but that's my report, three more years will be. What is great is that it is an advanced Rules of Procedure, so the National Assembly draws conclusions on the report that should be operationalized and I can only express great satisfaction that we are in a position to tell the citizens of Serbia, before representatives of international organisations, that independent control bodies and parliament are working to control the exercise of power in Serbia. I will try to make comments and your observations about the content of this report chronologically, although I will necessarily link some topics. It was said at the very beginning of today that there is a law missing on opening a security service file so that one aspect of the democratisation of our society ends and puts in place, corrects what has happened in the past on the agenda of human rights violations. The opinion of the head of the OSCE Mission has been quoted, and I myself had the opportunity to participate in the development of this opinion, but I can tell you that the first draft law I submitted to the National Assembly in 2007, was then adopted by the Security Service Foundation Act, which contained my amendment to pass a law on the opening of the file within six months. Sadly, the then National Assembly rejected that request. There were other legal proposals, and then, Commissioner Sabic and I discussed these proposals and gave our opinions. It's possible to make a quality law out of these proposals, but it really isn't up to us after all these years. On the bill, or draft law, which was mentioned, I, as the Guardian of Citizens, then wrote an opinion and said that I had several objections from the point of view of my jurisdiction. The first is - I can't take the files and take them home. It's an archival, historical structure. The second is – not any file opening commission can have a retributive, criminal character, but it must be an objective body that will determine the truth. I can't open it, or at least I shouldn't, if you, as MPs, decide to open the files of just one of the security services. We've got more and we've had more. I want to tell you that the topics that today may be just and superficially mentioned in our work have been seriously considered. I'll be back in a moment to the nature of our work. He said one honourable MP that we are not arbiters. Dear gentlemen, we are. We are not judges, but the Protector of the Citizens by law determines a failure in the work of the public authorities. So he doesn't give an opinion that there's been a failure. He'll give his opinion if it's any other situation. But the process of controlling the work of the public authorities was opened when it was found to have a basis, I am checking whether it was legal and correct, and if I conclude that it was not, based on the investigation process, I find that there has been a violation of the rights of citizens due to the failure of the authorities. If that failure has the elements of a criminal or criminal offence, then I also file appropriate reports. The Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection has even more incomparably a firmer authority. He brings binding, executive, final solutions. Authorities subject to questioning by the creditors do not have the right to appeal to those solutions, only a citizen may do so if the Commissioner has eventually rejected a complaint against another authority. So binding, executive and final solutions. That's right. On the grounds of the recommendations I make, indisputable, when the Guardian of Citizens determines the failure, I make a recommendation on how to correct the failure. But it can't be challenged in this outright way how the Guardian of Citizens does that failure. The trustee has combined these two powers. We're not all the same. There is no human right or right of citizens which is excluded from the jurisdiction of the Protector of Citizens, including the right to protection against discrimination and the right to information of public importance and protection of personal data. But my job is to deal with these rights only in exceptional situations, only when there is a danger of such a kind of violation of the right that will be irreparable, and when it comes to a particularly incorrect procedure that really stings eyes, so a citizen doesn't need to pay for the use of available legal means, but the Protector of citizens, as someone the state has set up here from an objective angle, and not as a citizen's lawyer, will check it out. Trustees, both of them, have a different jurisdiction. So we're not all the same and let's not even what's not the same. That's my answer to some of the comments on the possible overlapping of our reports. Yes, my report must also contain elements on protection against discrimination, i.e. equality and the right to access information of public importance and the protection of personal data. Economic rights are mentioned as a source or economic situation as a source of violation of law. In my last annual report, I have found that the economy is what it is, but especially in a difficult economic situation, there is an expression of the obligations of all state authorities to make the most legal and proper division of what can be shared. Social rights are not absolutely defined. All international social rights conventions say the state has something to do with the social sphere to secure, as objectively as possible. There is no human right that says social aid should be 2,000 euros, but that social assistance should be as much as the state can and should cover minimum minimum requirements. The failures that I find in terms of social and economic rights are not failures in terms of the amount of some aid and the amount of aid, but of not being given, and it has to be given, or it has been given and should not be given. And there's exactly a way to better economy with what little we have. I will remind you, I have established it and described it in the report, that the Republic of Serbia founded the Institute of Potatoes in Guca, which was financed, which fell into bankruptcy, to whom it pays, gave funds for work, gave the country, and all that the Institute did was manufacture potatoes and sell on the open market, like everyone else. If that's how we spend what little economic power we have, then it's no wonder we don't have enough. That's my view of socio-economic rights. It has been mentioned on several occasions by the judiciary and it has been said that the judges without criteria have been fired, so they have been returned without criteria. What we could do, dear MPs and MPs, was when the judges began, when the reelection procedure, or the general election of judges began, the Commissioner for Information found that it was not transparent enough, and the Citizens' Protector established a series of failures before they were perfected. I immediately said that there must be reasons, because a presumption of dignity and a number of other things was established. I think it was 2009 or 2010. My report was smoothly rejected by the High Council of the Judiciary as incorrect, unnecessary, etc. Six months later, the European Commission signed over, Malten, took it as a basis for its report, and then we got into trouble. And today, I'm pointing to the High Judicial Council for Problems. And let's not wait for the European Commission to bring us back to that. However, in this report I wrote to you that the High Council of the Judiciary and today corresponds to the Guardian of Citizens, written, that the Protector of the Citizens is not in charge of controlling his work. Article 138. The constitution says - from control, therefore, not from any kind of communication, from control, and control means sending someone from my service to take statements from you, to take documents, it is not appropriate and therefore there is no control, the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court, the courts, the prosecutions and the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a collective body are excluded. The high council of the judiciary is not a court, as is neither the Constitutional Court nor an exception to control. First, we formally allow our legal system for someone to openly say that they will not respect the Constitution, and secondly, essentially, everything, and that there is no right to control, should be respected what is objectively true. And believe me, it's objectively true and we can warn a lot of problems. It's a reasonable trial. It indicated in the report that the problem of too long trials is now trying to solve itself, that is to say that we hope that it will be resolved by amending the laws which the appeal is based on a trial within an unreasonable period practically from the domain of the Constitutional Court as a constitutional appeal and have been allowed to appeal first to the citizens of the courts of general jurisdiction. I have warned in this report that so far very relevant and professional associations, in this case the Serbian Judges' Society, who is afraid that we are putting out one fire with another fire. We have a problem with the courts of general jurisdiction which are unsupervised and then to this impeccableness we give them to deal with their impunity. I'm obliged to warn, the courts are excluded from the control authority and I cannot conduct specific individual control procedures, but to warn, and that warning should be heard. The next thing you know is the media, on many occasions. Yes, I did write and say that there are things in the media, data, facts, inactions that shouldn't be found in them. But it's not the media's fault. I leave associations to journalists, ethical committees, the press council to deal with the media, that's their jurisdiction. It's from the state authorities that leaks the data. Some civil servants provide information they should not provide. You know very well. In particular, the MUP is known for doing so, and unpunished. Here, I have now helped to formulate and answer questions and answers, and I have talked to the employees and authorities at the MUP about how to answer everyone as a state to the question again of the European Commission, because we have not done this before, how to prevent it. It's not just a way of preventing it from identifying in one individual case who gave the information, but to finally apply it, to bring in information about the classification of confidential data, about access to confidential data, about security checks, about the law to be passed, so that we can systematically solve this problem. That's what's being pointed at here. The next topic has been the Law on National Minorities Councils and the position of national councils at all. The amendments to the law were passed, and I welcomed it. These changes came to meet exactly the initiative I made to remove the failure in the selection of national councils of minorities seen in the last cycle. It did not go to the end of the problems he had opened with the right Constitutional Court for the constitutionality of certain matters. It was assessed as unconstitutional, but no new solutions were made, and that's what needs to be done. Once again, I stress the need to depoliticalise the work of national councils of national minorities, to separate the exercise of national minorities' rights from the political process. Otherwise, when the constitution was passed, the Constitutional Law said that the Republic of Serbia would pass a law on the rights of members of national minorities. We didn't do it. We passed the National Minority Council Act. So instead of dealing with a citizen, we tried to get through a para-state body. It is very important that this para-state body deals exclusively with the rights of national minorities, collectively and individually, not to be a reflection of politics. Now, sir, I'm just continuing what's been started. So at the beginning of this session, it is said that we should say something even though we are not conjecturers. So, given that during this entire six-hour discussion, I've been listening to comments on my report, I think it's minimally correct and to respond to what were the comments. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not as far as you think you should. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2669	Mr Martinovic, I will just remind you, first of all, not to throw the speaker, secondly that a joint single search has been opened on: the Regular Annual Report of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality for 2013, with a proposal for the conclusion of the Committee, the Annual Report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Meaning and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data with the Proposal for the conclusion of the Competent Committee. So, in this case, it is really very difficult to implement this, because on the one hand you have the one who submitted the report and you cannot challenge it's right to participate in the debate, and on the other hand you have a representative of the committee who is the formal compromiser of the conclusion. Let's sort it out in a way. Our Rules of Procedure simply cannot in this case, or I cannot simply separate who here is the proposer of what. The draft conclusion, but not the report, because the report is also an integral part of the conclusion. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2670	I'll try to be as short as possible. I can't protect parliamentarians from the media. It's simply not in the description, nor is it in my jurisdiction, even though I feel sometimes what you feel. Like I can't protect myself from false and malicious allegations in the media, I can't protect anyone. I control the work of the state authorities and try to point to problems, possibly raise awareness of the need for respect for human rights and in the media. I did so on several occasions, even at the demands of some ministers, but it was a good will for the media to come out. The rules for compensation for damages from natural disasters are extremely flawed. I'll tell you that after the Kings, we know that if the citizens are granted the damage that there will be several instances that will verify whether this damage may be overcompensated, but that if the citizen is denied the claim that he will be rejected in one sentence, without any explanation and without the right to two-stage proceedings. It's written. Unfortunately, the current situation is once again drawing attention to the need to resolve it. The textbooks and the contents of the textbooks. A number of very significant procedures have been conducted on how textbooks are approved and how the quality of textbooks pass or do not pass proper checks. I can tell you that in the education sector there is a huge, huge space for promotion and legality and regularity and transparency and everything else. People who do so in public authorities and services are not fully aware that they are implementing the law, that they are exercising public authority and that they have to answer for it completely. I ask you to support that those actions we have conducted, and in collaboration with the Anti-Corruption Agency, also establish serious failures, will not only be completed by my recommendation, but also by someone responsible for how it works. Problem with entering names in the language of national minorities, i.e. the native language. The amendments to the laws and initiatives that I have given, among other things, have led to better quality legislation, above all, the National Assembly has adopted this, in the end, but also through co-operation with the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, international organisations and NGOs, from serious training on the ground and control as the right is exercised. I now hear there are new problems, but the Guardian of Citizens, me and my service, have not received any serious complaints in the last year that would point to a problem on this plan. I call upon those who at several informal times pointed out that the problem remains to be addressed by a concrete complaint so that we can resolve it. Health. I think it's one of the most difficult areas in terms of achieving citizens' rights. Yes, I commended the fact that we've passed at least two significant laws, the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights and the Mental Health Act. With regard to the protection of patients' rights and when the law was passed to the competent ministry, I pointed out that the law so far contained a smaller corpus of rights which are largely unrespected and that we would not get far if we passed a law with an even larger law, and we did not respect it any less. Citizens in Serbia have mostly on paper. Here, you mentioned the right to a second opinion. Serbian citizens cannot get a first opinion within a reasonable period of time. A few days ago I had a meeting with the DRI, you know I warned about illegal supplemental work. Three times the same service is charged, three times from the Health Insurance Fund the same healthcare service is charged, so triple that is covered by compulsory health insurance. There is an incredible resistance among health institutions that these problems are solved, a list of medications, appointments, charges for what cannot be charged. It's all there is, let's establish it, and responsibility is new, in the executive power, and it's your word. The organisation of independent control bodies is mentioned. Can we get organized better? Simeon is our Civilian Protector is in the Constitution because he must exist – he must. The democratic standard everywhere in the world is that there is and that the work done by the Manchester cannot be replaced by the work of other organs. There is also a democratic standard that an independent body, an independent body with executive powers, deals with the protection of personal data and information against public importance. It is impossible to connect these two bodies and, among other things, because of what I said – trust brings binding executive, final solutions, the Protector of citizens brings illegal acts. The institution's authority responds, not legally, while the trustee works in a legal manner. What I would like to ask in front of this house is the justification of the current system of local ombudsmans and the proposal, i.e. the Draft Amendment of the Law on the Protector of Citizens, has foreseen certain changes in this regard in order to make one more effective system. You know my colleagues and colleagues at the local level aren't my employees, they're not my employees, they have nothing to do with me. The efficiency of this system is very, very questionable. The honourable Parliament spoke of the praise we receive as a country in Strasbourg, in the Council of Europe. As someone who was still a representative of the then executive government of the Council of Europe in 2000, I can tell you that these commendations are very nice to hear, but above all they come from a courteous basis, and that we need to see if the citizens of Serbia should be satisfied with the elementary or the average, or should we give them the most. Serbian citizens have the most representations before the European Court of Human Rights, and we cannot boast of that. The Strasbourg court ruled the first pilot ruling against Serbia in case of missing babies, two years after the Citizens' Protector found it necessary to pass a special law. The European Court of Justice is the same here, therefore, called for a report by the Guardians of Citizens and asked for a special law, and the first thing I saw from that special law is the work of experts from the NGO sector that I and the trustee and the trustee will support, but it is not a situation that we should boast of. After all, I should have brought the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe to take him to the woods next to Bogovadje so that together the two of us would raise awareness of the depth of human rights violations and threats not only to those people but also to Serbia and its citizens about such a situation. So let's not think that we have nothing to do about the standards of the Council of Europe. Yes, the number of complaints has increased and this has not been expressed as an argument that the state of human rights is worse. Despite how I feel, under so many complaints, it is good for Serbian citizens to complain to the Citizens' Protector. That means they trust the state authorities. The citizens of Serbia know better than the citizens of Sweden what is the jurisdiction of citizens' protectors, i.e. Simeon. Less I reject complaints of incompetence than my Swedish colleague. She, dear MPs and MPs, which is a problem that state authorities, employed by state authorities, allow themselves to continue to be surprised for seven years after the election of the Citizens' Protectors when my associates tell them that they are obliged to show documents and that they are obliged to respond. Citizens know that, civil servants and some allow themselves not to know, some civil servants in a position allow themselves to explicitly break the law and therefore do not get sanctioned. That's why 88% of the failures removed in the work of the authorities should, maltene, look like a real miracle, without any sanctions for breaking the law. I end up with a question of refugees and displaced people, the report structurally highlights five particularly vulnerable groups of citizens because the Civil Protection Act identified these five particularly vulnerable groups of citizens and asked me to ensure for these five groups that their rights are particularly protected at the level of the deputies. So, explicitly, there are five groups of devoid of freedoms listed in the law. Birth equality means, above all, women in fulfilling the principle of gender equality. The rights of children, the rights of persons with disabilities and the rights of members of national minorities. The law also determines what this report will look like. Mr. Linta has cited extremely significant problems in achieving the huge population with which I agree, but I must admit that most of what you have presented should be brought before the crucial Minister of Labour and Social Policy, in front of the Minister of Health, in front of the commissioner. I want to be a supporter in solving these problems, but I can't come up with a policy. Neither I nor any protecter of the citizens will be the one to assess whether the city's government will arrange something with the regulation plan, because it's on a local level. If he could, I agree that maybe he should have given credit at the beginning, it would have paid off by now. But it's a matter of politics. In that area, and I can't get involved in that. There were a lot more issues, even though this is the last one, I end up with kids. The president of the National Assembly in the last meeting and I, we agreed, and I would like it to be a continuation in the new National Assembly's assembly that at least one thing about children should be significantly promoted this year, that the children of beggars should be protected and put away. There are many other problems, vulnerable categories. Now I'm really finishing up, you should know that it shouldn't be a priority to further strengthen the institution of the Protector of Citizens. It's kind of amazing what I'm saying. The priority of the National Assembly and the state of Serbia should be the introduction of organisation, order, discipline, respect for the law in the work of the authorities. It is not the point that next year I determine even more gaps in the work of the authorities, but that authorities work more efficiently, better and quality. In this regard, there will be very little need for an increase in the number of investigators in the research departments, and what we need to improve is the quality of the administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2671	Thank you. I see that Mr. Rodoljub Sabic answered the word, but according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 216 of the independent body does not have the right to speak. We let Mr. Jankovic finish his answer to everything that was debated, discussed. Please don't throw it at me, I'm sticking to my Rules of Procedure, Article 2016. He has the right to speak to Mr Meho Omerovic, who will defend the conclusions here. So this isn't about reports, it's about the findings of the board of directors. Here you go. Please don't throw away the chairman again, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2672	I apologize, Mr. Vice President, our distinguished guests Mr. Sabic, Mrs. Petrusic, Mr. Jankovic, presented their reports here. I would really use this right and opportunity to give all of them, not only to Mr Jankovic, but also to Mrs Petrusic, as well as to Mr Sabic, the right not to me, but to you, as chairman in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I will then use the law as chairman of the Committee who is authorised to propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2673	I'm asking you to use that right because I'm stuck here strictly with the Rules of Procedure and you have the right to the word and that's it. Here, you can talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2674	Mr. Vice President, I'm really uncomfortable right now. After the Citizens' Protector, you did not give the Trustee the right to protect information against public importance and protection of personal data, as I assume you would not have given Mrs Petrusic a word to report now. That's a little unusual.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2675	I apologize to Ambassador Omerovic. I'm strictly sticking to the Rules of Procedure. I beg the MPs, please the people who are representatives of the independent bodies present here...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2676	But you gave your word to Mr. Jankovic, you could and had to give the word to Mr. Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2677	Please don't throw me out of my place. Don't break the Rules of Procedure. Finish what you started and what belongs to you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I am here, as vice president of the National Assembly, to stick to the Rules of Procedure and to respect the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please, if you'd like to finish, in accordance with the report's conclusions. I'll stick to the end of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2678	Of course I'll stick to the Rules of Procedure, first of all, unlike you, Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, because it's really illogical and it's really a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you give the right to one of the reports we're talking about, to defend and give the word without giving the right to others. We now have an unimaginable situation, so far unrecorded, that you are leaving the session of the representatives of the Protector of the Citizens, or the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter and the Protection of Personality Data and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. You've led to this, I apologize, I'll use my right to the Rules of Procedure, but since I have the right to the Rules of Procedure, I remind you, Article 96, the Proposer of the Act... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2679	I'm sorry, I have to explain one more time, and I have to warn you, I was just sticking to the Rules of Procedure when I left for the presidency and Mr. Jankovic had his word. I'm sticking to the point and I'm a member of 237. Rules of Procedure and please, if you wish to complete your speech in accordance with the conclusions, you have no right to chair, you may point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but when you have finished your speech. Thank you. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll speak in accordance with Article 96. The Rules of Procedure, but to the great satisfaction of most of the present who have been patient since this morning to be present here in the O.R. as opposed to me, I am truly honest and I will not use it all the time, because Article 96. The Rules of Procedure allow me to speak without restriction. The committee that proposed the conclusions is the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and I am, by chance or intentionally, the chairman of that committee and I am the authorised representative of that committee and I will use this right of my own, and as you have given me your word, I will just look back at what was the debate throughout the day. Unfortunately for me, although this is your previous, Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr Arsic said, a good part and MPs, unfortunately, did not understand what this is about, because we are conducting a joint single search on the proposal for the two committees' conclusions on the reports of Mrs Petrusic, Mr Sabic and Mr Jankovic, and we are talking about the conclusions of the parent, authorized committees, not the annual reports they have submitted, because of their reports we are discussing. That is why, since it is a unique search, no one here today, all day long fortunately or unfortunately did not look back at something that is insignificant to you, but the only three amendments that have been tabled here have been submitted by an MP who has not even qualified to come to the committee meeting, who has proposed these conclusions, although he is a member of that committee, who has not even qualified to come to the session when the debate is being held, except for one co-signator of that amendment, who is just raising his hand to assume that he is replicating, because something is not clear to him. I think it deserves attention for a few reasons. So, because these amendments that have been tabled are the only amendments from all of us 250, which have been filed on three reports, annually, which have been submitted by the gentlemen involved, but more than that, I want to protect the Assembly, to protect the committee that I am chairing, because early this morning, we have all forgotten, things are happening very quickly in this high house, said that "The Committee for Human and Minority Rights, in its proposal of conclusions, clearly ignores the perceived problems and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights degrades the problems that minorities face and in their own way, is linguistically trying to cloud the facts set out in the report." So this morning it was said here by an MP who is a member of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, who has submitted an amendment, which has never been granted, since that committee was present at the committee session. As chairman of the board, I want to protect all the members of the committee that I chair, and I want to protect the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia against the lies that have been heard in these allegations. Why do I say that? Very simple and simple, the amendments submitted are for a committee whose committee I am authorized to propose at this time, unacceptable and the committee rejects them and proposes that the National Assembly not accept them in the day of the vote. Why? Because the proposal made, the first amendment, says – The National Assembly adopts a regular report by the Citizens' Protectors and calls on the Government to remove any shortcomings identified by this report by the end of 2014. I propose to the National Assembly, all my colleagues, not to accept this amendment for the following reasons...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2681	Comrade Omerovic, please, we will talk about the amendments at the session in particular. (The People's Messenger Gordana Komic, from the place: This is a disgrace, shame on you! )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2682	No session in particular, Mr. Vice President, this is a unique search. Please don't break the Rules of Procedure, there's no session on amendments and let me use all my time, don't make me talk all the time I have. So this amendment is contrary to Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of our Assembly. Why? Because the Assembly and the committees in charge are considering, and they do not adopt, I look at MPs who are experienced lawyers, I am not a lawyer. Is that true? Yeah. So the committees are considering not adopting reports from independent state bodies. After considering the report, the committee responsible shall submit a report to the National Assembly with a proposal for conclusions, i.e. recommendations with measures to improve the situation in those areas, which the Committee on Human and Minority Rights has done unanimously. Thus, the National Assembly does not adopt a report by independent state authorities. The essence of the conclusions in which the National Assembly decides on a proposal for a committee is not to adopt or not to adopt an independent state body report, but rather to report, just the reports of the committee I chair, should serve all of us, the National Assembly, if and when it adopts this report, to look at the situation in a particular area and to propose measures to improve the situation. As for the amendments that have proposed that the Government of the Republic of Serbia commit itself by the end of 2014, to remove all shortcomings, that conclusion has already been defined at point 7. It is therefore stated that the government undertakes to provide information to the National Assembly once in six months with data that are just being classified and this amendment is pointless. Amendment number two, which has been submitted for the conclusion of the annual report by the Citizens' Protectors, among other things, propose to introduce into the text the obligation of the National Assembly to ensure the representation of MPs elected from minority lists when a commission is appointed. On behalf of the Committee, I propose not to accept this amendment for the following reasons. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions in Article 278, provides for the National Assembly to educate the Commission on the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The Commission shall have five members on a proposal from the committee responsible in the order of the Members of Parliament. The decision of the National Assembly has clearly and precisely defined who makes up the commission. These are three members who are elected from the order of members or deputies on a committee that is in the work of the judiciary. This is, therefore, the Committee chaired by counterpart Petar Petrovic, the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and two members who are elected from the Committee's ranks, the issue of human rights, health and social policy. Therefore, the composition of the commission has been defined, starting with the commission's tasks, i.e. It is possible for representatives of the committee to participate in the work of the committee, which includes the Commission's tasks, and not be selected from the ranks of MPs from certain electoral lists or parliamentary groups. I believe that this solution is justified and enables the effective work of the commission, because there is a very precise and clear law. There is no interference, on the other hand, that the amendments can be supported by committees to propose candidates and members of a national minority if they are members of a national minority, but this does not have to be a decisive criterion, as the criterion is defined by the said decision and must be a member of a committee in which the issue of the protection of the rights, health and social policy is being raised. The last thing I want to say is a response to the third amendment that they are asking for national councils of national minorities to be defined as state bodies of minority self-government. I'm distracting you, and here the amendment promoter has made a mistake. Why? The text of amendments and arguments is contradictory, as the amendment speaks of state self-government and does not explain the authorities of state self-government. Therefore, they did not, in their own reasons, follow themselves in the proposal for an amendment that they wanted to propose. So, there is no basis nor any reason why the committee that has proposed the conclusions that we are discussing accepts these three amendments, and that is only one reason why I have come forward, because I am authorized by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights to respond to amendments from honourable fellow Members of Parliament who have submitted amendments to the Committee's proposals for the conclusions, because these are the only three amendments that have been offered here today, which, unfortunately, no one has mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2683	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Gordana Komic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2684	Thank you. Members of 107 have been injured in the 1st position that says that the speaker is in violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, which you have done, because you are the speaker at the moment when you have done a violation of Rules of Procedure and Article 27 which obliges you to take care of order in the National Assembly, associated with Article 238, paragraph 2, on the participation of representatives of other independent bodies in the National Assembly sessions. Your explanation for the ban on telling the trustee about free access to information Rodoljub Sabic and the trustees of equality Nevena Petrusic, said that they did not discuss their reports, so you have to decide or the Rules of Procedure have violated all those who participated in the session and all should give notice for violating the dignity of the National Assembly, or you have seriously injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and without any need, quite needlessly, have kicked out representatives of independent bodies that we are talking about, not formally, but by attitude. I don't understand why. Has anyone been very upset about what the representatives of the independent bodies say, so someone phoned someone, so you at the heart of the Assembly's reputation say the reason why they don't talk here about reports of independent and regulatory bodies, and that they can't get a word after Sasa Jankovic has already spoken? Absolutely unnecessary. The reason why I consider it my obligation to speak of this as a violation of the Rules of Procedure was strengthened by the interruption of the MP as he spoke of the amendments, saying there would be a search in particular. He won't. It is also an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly. If you are chairing the session, you must know that now and here is a unique search when we speak in principle and in detail. Thank you. I don't want you to make a statement because I don't have any hope of getting along.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2685	I'm obliged to explain. Of course, as chairman, I didn't throw anyone out, nor is anyone here who threw anyone out of the National Assembly, which doesn't mean I won't bet that you always stand up for your opinions and say what you want to end. I think I'm just sticking to the 237th and 238. Rules of Procedure. It is my duty here and no one in this National Assembly and none of today's chairmans have said that reports are being considered here. So this is where it's being voted, the reports are being considered, but according to the Rules of Procedure, he has the right to speak to an authorised representative of the board on those findings. Would you like to make a statement on the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2686	I don't want a statement, and in the stenogram you'll see what you've actually done today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2687	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Just tell me on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2688	Mr. Chairman, Article 34. Rules of Procedure. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: What is this about? I picked up half an hour ago. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2689	I ask the MPs not to receive from the scene. Let's get this straight. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2690	I suggest that, on the basis of article 34, you set a break of ten minutes to call on an emergency of the National Assembly to get out of this extremely unpleasant situation of quality. I ask you for one break of ten minutes to make a flash to the College and to bring this session into one normal course and it is normally over.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2691	I thank you for your suggestion, Mr. Granny. I think the session is going perfectly normal. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2692	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure of Rule 161 have been injured, which says MPs have the right to propose amendments. Here is the conclusion proposed today, and we are asked to take that conclusion blindly, which is deep into a public blurry, which ignores the provisions of the report and which is contradictory. I will only talk about one case of contradiction, which is at point 2 of the conclusion on the Citizens' Protector's report, which has two positions that are contradictory to each other. In the first position, you praise the National Minority Councils Act, which you are not...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2693	Please, this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so tell me what is a specific violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2694	I'm discussing a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I have two minutes to explain. Therefore, the 1st position boasts a law which has not been adopted by any amendment submitted by the parties of national minorities. Praise a law that in no way regulates elections for national councils of national minorities, which destroys democracy and destroys regular elections for national councils of national minorities. In attitude two, you say and call on the government to remove irregularities. So the logic itself says that when everything is okay, there is no illogicality, or when there is illogicalness, everything is not okay. You're asking us to accept one conclusion that offends intelligence and thus insults dignity. I call upon everyone to read a little more carefully what we are asked to vote here, and the committee asks us to vote for something that is contradictory.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2695	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Just tell me on what basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2696	Dear Chairman, I will remind you that you are in charge when an MP points to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you shall give your word. (President: Please state which member of the Rules of Procedure? ) Article 96. Rules of Procedure. I will remind you that we are conducting a joint single search today on a regular annual report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, a regular annual report by the Citizens' Protector for 2013 and a report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information From Public Matters and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data in 2013 and a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice and Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality. Here's a reminder, so you don't watch the stenograms from the opening of the debate. This morning, the chairman of the Assembly, when she read three points of the agenda, said the following sentence – did the representatives of the motion want a word and as a proposing, was given by Prof. Dr. Neveni Petrusic, Mr. Sasa Jankovic, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, and then asked the presidents of the committee of Mr. Meh Omerovic and Peter Petrovic, do they want a word? So, did the President of the Assembly hurt the Rules of Procedure when she gave the representatives of these institutions as legislators this morning, because at the end of this session you did not want to give them the floor, contesting that they were the motions of the documents discussed by the Assembly? So someone hurt the Rules of Procedure. Was it the President of Parliament this morning or was it you when you didn't want to give a word and brought us into this awkward situation that the presidents of the three independent bodies were coming out of the assembly? I don't know what kind of phone call that was, what happened, what was that statement here that provoked someone to hurt the Rules of Procedure, completely unnecessary. We've had one correct and quality discussion all day. I don't know what happened to you getting into this situation and hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2697	Please state which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2698	Article 96. Rules of Procedure. I will remind you that we are conducting a joint single search today on a regular annual report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, a regular annual report by the Citizens' Protector for 2013 and a report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information From Public Matters and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data in 2013 and a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice and Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality. Here's a reminder, so you don't watch the stenograms from the opening of the debate. This morning, the chairman of the Assembly, when she read three points of the agenda, said the following sentence – did the representatives of the motion want a word and as a proposing, was given by Prof. Dr. Neveni Petrusic, Mr. Sasa Jankovic, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, and then asked the presidents of the committee of Mr. Meh Omerovic and Peter Petrovic, do they want a word? So, did the President of the Assembly hurt the Rules of Procedure when she gave the representatives of these institutions as legislators this morning, because at the end of this session you did not want to give them the floor, contesting that they were the motions of the documents discussed by the Assembly? So someone hurt the Rules of Procedure. Was it the President of Parliament this morning or was it you when you didn't want to give a word and brought us into this awkward situation that the presidents of the three independent bodies were coming out of the assembly? I don't know what kind of phone call that was, what happened, what was that statement here that provoked someone to hurt the Rules of Procedure, completely unnecessary. We've had one correct and quality discussion all day. I don't know what happened to you getting into this situation and hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2699	Time. I think it's article 96. The rules of procedure are not broken. I stuck to the Rules of Procedure, specifically points 237 and 238. You have the right to declare in the day of voting the National Assembly. Do you want to? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. ) The word has a folk letter from Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2700	Thank you. Article 238, point 2, I'll read it, so only if you can explain which part is unclear. "The representatives of an independent state body whose report is being discussed shall take part in the work at the meeting of the committee responsible and in the session of the National Assembly." Can you explain how they participate in the debate if they cannot speak in it? Can you explain, not so much to us, but simply to the citizens, because it is clear to us, it is clearly not clear to you only from all MPs present in the hall, in which way do you believe that they do not have the right to speak in the debate in which the Rules of Procedure obliges them to participate? What you are to Mr. Omerovic, I was already talking about, it is really unserious that you, as vice president of the Assembly, do not know what a unique search means and, on the note of Mr. Babic, that we are now in some awkward situation that we will get out of if you take a break, no, we are not in an awkward situation. What's going on right now is the result of what we talked about in the entire session, which is breaking institutions, disrespecting procedures and disrespecting the rules. If you hadn't made these people come out of the O.R. with their behavior, maybe you could have heard something about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2701	Thank you. I have to comment and explain to you how the Rules of Procedure tells me. I didn't drive anyone away this entire discussion today was very correct, about all the reports. I also refer to article 96, which makes it clear, Section 1. — the proposing act, or the authorised representative of the group of proposing acts which it receives when requested, does not refer to it as a restriction on the duration of the exposure. It says clearly. You have the right to request that this proposal be made known in the Parliament's voting day. Do you want to? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: it doesn't matter at all. Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2702	Your Honored chairman, you have injured Article 108 of Position 1 which says that the session of the National Assembly is being held by an old president, or chairman of the National Assembly. You have been obliged to warn the MPs who we pretend to be that at this time and according to these amendments that we have submitted, the committee. I request the official opinion of the committee responsible for human and minority rights on these amendments and the conclusion by which the MP is authorised to discuss these amendments at the session. Mr. is the chairman of the board of directors, but I am asking the committee's opinion on these amendments, as he discussed and represented the entire committee at this session. I don't know if he has the authority to do that because I didn't get an official notice from the board. The task of our legitimate representatives of Bosniaks in this House is to look for ways to address the problems that the Bosniaks, or national minorities, are facing in this House. The task of some private Bosniaks is to draw conclusions and to do so in this assembly in the way they only know how to do. On no basis can we dispute the right to propose amendments and ask that the conclusions that this Assembly is making change and that we try to correct what we consider to be injustice. In the previous discussion, we saw that the president of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights violated the rights of MPs. That's absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-04-0.u2703	Time. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. I'm asking everyone to come to a college that I'm going to hold in Hall One. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Just to let the MPs know that we have a deal with the College. We'll interrupt today's work and resume the session at the same point of the agenda will be tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
