ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13535	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 101 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Branko Ružić, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Stefana Miladinović, Zvonimir Stevic, Djordje Cabarkapa, Olgica Batić, Momo Colaković and Dubravka Filipovski. We continue to work and move on the search in the details of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Financial Activities You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Marko Djurisić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Jujana Hasanovic Korać, master of Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Čomić, Olena Papug, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojšić, master of Dejan Čapo, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Saba Dazdarević, Enis Imamović, Riza Halimi, Shaip Kamberi, Dejan Nikolic, Ivan Jovanovic and Prof. Dr Vladimir Marinković. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the opinion of the President of the Proposer, MP Zoran Babic, on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The first amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Branka Karavidić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13536	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow MPs, I don't see a proposal, but I'm going to put all of this into my opinion. Our parliamentary group is on Article 1-1, or on Article 11. The law on the financing of political activities submitted an amendment. We do not agree that Article 11 deletes the 4th position – the political party can buy fixed assets exclusively through the funds collected from private sources. Of course, we disagree and think that retaining an existing legal solution towards which immovable property can be purchased exclusively by means collected from private sources. The bill provides for erasure of this provision. More specifically, it is predicted that real estate can be purchased from public sources, i.e. from the budget of the republican, regional and municipal budgets. Such a solution is not acceptable and is contrary to the purpose of issuing funds from public sources to political parties. In fact, budget funds are allocated to finance the work of political parties for several reasons. First, it allows for the elemental functioning of political parties in order to achieve their objective as set out in the Political Party Act, thus providing for essential conditions for the existence of a multi-party system, the existence of a different opinion and thus a democratic society in general. Secondly, the budget cuts the dependence of political parties on funding from private sources. In view of the fact that the bill promoter did not provide for the removal of the 5th position of this member, which gives parties the right to lease, then we can conclude that the changer submitted to the ruling party for the money it receives from the budget, at a monthly level of around 400,000 euros, at an annual level of about 5,000 000 euros, to buy real estates, and then eventually to rent and earn profits, which is not the sense of the political party's functioning. I'm sorry the promoter didn't look back at the time this law was passed. At that time, the SNS, or the Prosperity Group, committed Serbia, by its amendment to this article, to ban the acquisition and use of existing immovableities and movables for the purpose of renting and carrying out commercial activities. Now they don't mind it in this article, but they are proposing to allow the purchase of immovable assets from the budget, so the money of all Serbian citizens. Where did your 2011 principled commitment go, that political parties should not be engaged in commercial activity? Do you intend to buy the money you get from the budget, which I have to admit is not small, buy the real estate and rent it? The intention is obvious when parallels are withdrawn between what you said three years ago and what you propose today and Serbian citizens need to know. I expected a change to the position of the 5th member, or I expected your consistency. He's not here. I ask you, why did you give up your 2011 opinions this time? I'd like the promoter to explain that to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13537	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13538	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, my colleague Branka Karavidic has asked several questions. I expect the promoter to answer these very important questions. In fact, it is known to all those who are dealing with the right to divide legal persons into those who are engaged, to establish profits, and to those who are founded to perform certain social activities without the intention of obtaining profits. Companies are established for profit gains. NGOs and political parties are set up without the intention of gaining a profit, but rather to carry out political action when it comes to political parties. You SNS gentlemen are turning these changes and additions of the political party's laws to one extent a company that will acquire property, but not through carrying out its basic actions and funds by donors, but through funds that Serbian citizens will give to political parties through the budget. So, all those citizens and pensioners and doctors and nurses and nurses and soldiers at the service, i.e. constantly employed by the Ministry of Defence, that is, they will all pay through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, allocate funds for political parties, and only one political party will benefit from that which will have enough resources to meet all its political needs, and that it also provides properties that will be issued tomorrow or some other commercial services made out of a verse of funds received from citizens. The colleague Karavidic asked you a good question - what has happened in the last three years, so you gave up the position that political parties should not acquire real estate from budget funds and use them commercially? What happened in the meantime? Citizens should know that this budget reduction will not affect all political parties equally. Citizens should know that the Serbian Progressive Party in the earlier period stressed that they do not know what of the funds, of the money, because the fact is that they have fivem euros per year in revenues and it is normal for them to act now to equip their assets in real estate, and this changes directly legalises these laws. We believe that this is very, very harmful and that political parties should not be companies and carry out actions that bring commercial profits, above all not to use those funds taken from Serbian citizens through the budget. We believe that you would be consistent with what you represented three years ago and, above all, with some constitutional principle of political parties as non-profit organisations, that you should accept this amendment, i.e. I find it very incorrect that you have made such an amendment in the bill at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13539	The word is proposed by Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13540	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Progressive Party invested in real estate when we received nothing from the Republic of Serbia's budget from the proposer of this amendment. The Serbian Progressive Party was formed in 2008. From 2008 to 2012 the Serbian Progressive Party has not received a single dinar from the Republika Srpska budget. At that time, the proposer of this amendment did not worry whether the party's work would be compromised. No, they changed the law then, and in 2011 the Law on the financing of political activities was adopted, where the percentage for the secession for political parties was changed, em was from the expenditure side of the budget. Imagine that policy and that logic that out of each loan, and how many loans did the Republic of Serbia raise and take, 0.15% went to finance political activities, and most of all to finance the political activities of the amendment promoters, since at that time it had the largest parliamentary group? Think of the responsibility and what message you sent to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that when you were the greatest, and the state was in crisis, the citizens of the crisis, only Mirko Cvetkovic said we got out of the crisis, but our citizens won't feel it, you were giving it to yourself at the time. The Serbian Progressive Party had zero dinars, but then we invested in real estate. How? Out of the funds of Serbian Progressive Party members, seven houses were built in the Kingdom, in an earthquake destroyed by the King. We invested in these properties. Another 350 families, 350 households in the Kingdom are transparent from the funds that we have raised from our members, from sympathisers, from people of goodwill, to help people in the King. What were the parties that got the most? What was the proposer of this amendment then?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13541	You're wasting group time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13542	Of course. Instead of building one house, one shed in the King, no, they went to the Vojvodina Development Bank and got millions of credits on the honorable word and now we have business ideas. You just need to read the explanations, read what you got. I, on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, accepted the amendment, which was also submitted by Mr. Aleksandar Jugovic and Mrs. Jerkov and Mr. Balša Bozovic, because this is the point at which we have both found ourselves as a promoter and as promoters of the amendment and representatives of civil society. You have to read before you get up and distract the citizens for years. The amendment reads: "The political party that acquires immovable assets from public sources can use this property exclusively to carry out its political activities. Is it terrible that we are thinking and looking into the future? Is it terrible that we're not looking at Vojvodina Development Bank? True, and there is no longer any policy you have destroyed, but you have given the account to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We're thinking about making educational centers. We're giving you the opportunity to create educational centers... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: We do. )......................................................................................................... To educate people who will lead these parties better than you, to get these young people through the challenges that we are going through now easier, differently. The Serbian Progressive Party is thinking in a way not from today to tomorrow in the aftermath of the Flood, we are thinking about young people to whom we will leave a house, a sheltered house, a place where they will gather, instead of holding their meetings and creating a policy and learning that policy, and not just crying on billboards. Why don't you say what bothers you the most, less money? If we had left the same percentage here, that we increased the percentage, probably to say -- that, bravo, excellent, the deeper you drag your hand into the pocket of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, just like you did in 2011. Of course I was against it, and I will always be against such politics and such ideas. This is the way the parties will behave domestically and where these properties will not serve business, but what we have agreed with the amendment's promoters, but also with representatives of civil society. Before sending any message from this congregation pay phone, please be informed, read what it is. Don't read what you didn't and don't look away from what you did, because you did bad things and that's why this law had to change, to keep more funds in the budget, to stay more for hospitals, for kindergartens, for schools and for social issues, and less for billboards. I'll always vote for that kind of thing. I'll always vote for those things that, at least for a second, at least for a little bit, will cure our public finances that you've been ill with irresponsible policies, loans of which you've taken 0.15% for political activities. What's constitutional about that? What's in harmony with logic? What's in line with the interests of the citizens? There's no such thing. This law is a step forward. This law has been done in communication and in agreement with civil society. This law was made in accordance with the law and, most importantly, this law is in line with citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who will remain for more than 3.5m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13543	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13544	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising a violation of article 106. - The speaker can only talk about the agenda. In a good part of his presentation, the speaker spoke of restored homes in the King. To tell you the truth, I'm embarrassed to hear about it, let alone the families that built those houses. You know, there's one rule -- give and help so your left hand doesn't know your right hand is giving. Please don't let those families know that you helped them. Come on, hang the billboards on every house you've restored. It's really rude, and I'm embarrassed to hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13545	Dear MP, I believe that no injured article 106, because, like previous speakers, speaker Zoran Babic set an example of how money was used earlier. So I'm gonna hang up? Thank you. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Enis Imamovic, from the place: No. Thank you. It's just, since there's been a lot of reports, that we allow one MP to come in and take an oath. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the National Assembly MP for the vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to grant the MP's mandate in order to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Ana Filipovic, elected from the electoral list ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ - FUTURE IN WHICH WE BELIEVE - the Serbian Progressive Party - the Social Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - the Serbian Renewal Movement - the Socialist Movement. On the basis of the RIC Decision and the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Ana Filipovic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. Dear People's MPs, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the People's Parliament to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful joint work on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the current term of office. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13546	Article 107, Madam President. At no time has the SNS spoken of names, but if the previous breach of the Rules of Procedure is an attempt to shut their mouths, not to speak or to speak only what is favourable to individuals, I will not allow it, and I will not do so even when it has been much more dangerous and much more difficult. I'll also talk about the seven houses that we've made without budget funds, while others have been scattered by billboards, campaigns, loans in the Development Bank, which they've received in honor of. Let's put aside those houses on billboards and those credits that were received on honor's word. These are two different concepts, two different thinkings, two different attitudes in politics, irresponsiblely putting your hands in your pocket, irresponsiblely putting your hands in the Republic of Serbia's budget. What we want with this bill is savings. I know that many people do not respond when they say – you too must save and will react and react as they do now. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: What is this? This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We run a policy that is responsible, we run a policy that is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and please, just don't teach us jurisdiction, because first look in the mirror, look at what the people with whom you shared the same values, with whom you shared power.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13547	You've applied to article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. Since the messengers were yelling at the hall – what is this, then, we will take the same way that the previous Messenger was called upon to hurt the Rules of Procedure and look at what he was saying and see if anyone should recite all this. I think so, but all MPs are using to say one more thing. So I don't see what's the problem here. All criteria apply to all Members equally. Since I have not responded to article 106, I have no way to react, no will, no desire to Article 107. It is explained why the MP feels that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated and that is his right. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating Article 103 concerning Article 109, the MP has the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for Article 109, he says among other things – if he uses curses and offensive expressions. It is very offensive to me if one of the humanitarian gestures of a political party, a politician, who gives part of his political party's money for humanitarian purposes, not speaking to which individuals is the humanitarian aid delivered. So, it's not embarrassing to say, for me, it's even pleasant, that part of the money is meant for political activities being translated into humanitarian activities, especially if it happened in conditions where part of our country was hit by a disaster - an earthquake. It's more embarrassing for me to, say, put on those houses an Achif-efendi board. Then that would be for me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13549	Ambassador, is this a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13550	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I say it's less embarrassing, it's even pleasant to build houses for humanitarian purposes. It's embarrassing to put on houses the markings and records of the Achif-efendium, the war criminal Hitler has decorated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13551	I apologize to the MP for not hearing much of the exposure. Your right is, since I can't answer you whether or not a member of 103, is injured to decide whether to vote. Honestly, I didn't hear. Do you want to vote? (Marian Risticevic: No. ) The word has a folk MP, Vesna Simic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13552	Thank you. Given that the proposing representative explained that the amendment to Article 1 was accepted. The bill, which says that a political party that acquires immovable assets from public sources, can use the property exclusively to carry out its political activities. I don't think there's much to say about this amendment. However, I would only look at it with a few sentences, since I believe there was no need for its submission, and for the following reasons. The funds for the work of political parties are allocated proportionately and proportionately to the number of mandates won. In which way the party will use these funds, whether for billboards, posters, leaflets, buying voters or buying real estate, is the matter of her personal determination. What is important is whether the Constitution, some other law, such as the Law on Fundamental Property and Legal Relations, the Law on Liabilities, or some other legal solution, prohibits this. Well, in that case, it'd be debatable. Unless it is prohibited by the legal system of the state, it is a matter of personal determination and, in my opinion, it is much more comprehensive to buy real estate and leave them in the amanet for the work and political functioning of future generations, but rather to spend these funds on a one-time purchase of voters, councilors, MPs, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13553	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. (Branka Karavidić, from town: Replica. To the exhibit? You can pick up the amendment. I'm sorry, I'm giving you the amendment, but I can't give you a replica on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, there were three. (Branka Karavidić, from town: Just a little bit. So I explained the amendment. The promoter has arrived... I can't hear you. Come in, stand up, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13554	It's okay, I'll use the MP's time. So, demagogies and pathetics never enough. The demagogist says - we are reducing the resources for the work of political parties and sharing the fate of the people, but they have come to think of it and are now replacing the reductions, which will have precisely changed this law, by allowing themselves to obtain real estate from the Republic of Serbia's budget, so the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's what citizens need to know. You didn't answer me why you gave up changing the position of the 5th member, which you proposed in 2011? I'm interested in something else -- how many educational centers do you think you can buy for five million euros?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13555	Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. The word is proposed by Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13556	First, what an esteemed colleague silences, and I believe she knows, no law is an individual act, no law applies only to individuals or to a particular political party. It's incorrect when you say it – you made this law for yourself to buy real estate. That's rude. That's brazen. That's a twist of words. This law applies to you and you can buy real estate, but it was nicer in the Development Bank, so there, it was better there. Who paid there? Which one paid the debts of the Development Bank? Citizens of Serbia. How did you get the loan? On an honorary note, or familiarity with Elezovic, or did Elezovic take you there, or someone else? Now you're saying that the reduction in funds... (Alexandra Jerkov, from town: Saric. There's something else with Saric. You've been letting the sharics privatize. Don't just mention Sharic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13557	Please don't flaunt.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13558	Now you're saying that the reduction of funds allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget is demagogy. What happened in 2011 when you took out of credit for political parties? Any credit 0.15%, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of every loan the Democratic Party, in any aggregate state, took 0.15% went to finance the Democratic Party and other parties. It wasn't a demagogy. It was a robbery, it was a kidnapping, and this is an understanding and a point of robbery, as colleagues say. This is an understanding of the state of public finances in which you are ill with your irresponsible policy, your duties, your spending. Out of every billboard loan, out of every loan, so why didn't you buy, why didn't you get bored then, why didn't you think about the future, why didn't you think about young people at the time? That's when it took as much as it took to get through the dict of the media or I don't know who they advertised and do some of that money, a good part of that money ended up there. That was fine. Now that it remains for the citizens of Serbia, it is now a demagogy. All right, call me demagogue. Here I confess, but there will be three and a half million euros left for people in Serbia, whether you want it or not, by the majority decision in this assembly and by the decision of reasonable people in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13559	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. What, according to the Rules of Procedure? (Branka Karavidić, from town: Replica. You don't have a chance on the line, because I'm here in Mr. Babic's speech, the promoter of this... Please allow me to give an explanation. The Democratic Party is mentioned. If you recognize yourself in the Democratic Party, then I can... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The problem is to give you my word, because the list is full. I'll have to delete the list to give you my word. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13560	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating an injury. 106th and 107th. Rules of Procedure. You were obliged to warn your party colleague Babic about rude address to counterpart Karavidic. So, Mr. Babic, if you haven't heard or heard from him, he said that Mrs. Karavidic spoke in a dirty language, or that she was rude. I know Mrs Karavidic well and she always speaks politely to party colleagues and those who are not party colleagues. There was nothing in her presentation that was rude. After all, if it were, we would have warned her. Are you not going to respect the Rules of Procedure or not to respect the Rules of Procedure because Babic is your party boss or something? You are violating the Rules of Procedure by not allowing MPs of the opposition to speak about the subject of the law, very often, from the seat of the chairman, perhaps not you, but your colleagues, and you allow Mr Babic to use such offensive words to MPs. I believe that you were obliged to warn Mr Babic, especially given the fact that he is the president of the parliamentary group, the largest parliamentary group in parliament, for example the others, but no, you haven't even heard Mr Babic. I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure and give Mr. Babic a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13561	Dear Mr. Veselinovic, you have just done everything you have reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You did everything you said the previous speaker did, but you said it to me now and I didn't interrupt you. I'm not going to say that sentence that you've slowed down here in the speech of the previous speaker. You were like this to me and I didn't react at all. No one's my boss here. I am the chairman of this House and for me all MPs are the same, except for the President of Parliament. What you are now in a sentence, which you challenge to the previous speaker, you have done the same thing to the chairman, and I have not interrupted you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. ) (Dejan Nikolic, from the place: Replica. On what basis? (Dejan Nikolic, from the place: The Democratic Party is mentioned. ) The word has a People's MP, Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13562	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, on the machinations, spoke to you personally, the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, as a proposing, by saying that the new law on financing political activities opens up a new space for machinations. Those are the words of the competent agencies. With this law you will provide so much more SNS money that you have little to buy houses and vineyards with this law and money from the budget, but you would also buy plums and meadows, and all of this under some password – savings and reforms. What reforms? The ones that start for 2.5 years, they don't start? You've reduced the reforms to day-to-day politics. You've inhaled a new life with these reforms.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13563	Mr. Nikolic, please choose your words. I warned Mr. Veselinovic not to allow words here in the Assembly that are not suitable for this high house.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13564	In parliament and in government, everything is about reform, change, improvement. When you go before parliament, in front of the government, people fight for existence. It's barely over. All you started to do was spoil the cabbage man's stone if he gave it to you, you'd spoil it. These are your reforms.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13565	Thank you. (Branka Karavidić, from town: Replica. You have no chance of replicating. (Branka Karavidić, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I can't give you my word, I can't delete the list every time and the MPs... (Branka Karavidić, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13566	I'd like you to explain why you can't give me your word if I say it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure? So Article 104(1) states among other things that the replica is given, if someone is misread. I want to do it right by that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13567	It is decided by the chairman, Mrs. Karavidic. I have decided that you do not have the opportunity for replication and because the deputy head of the parliamentary group has also been given the opportunity to explain. Same thing in the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13568	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to admit, I don't know why anyone's mad at these changes. I want to believe that dear colleague Karavidic suggested this in the best possible way, but you know when someone had all the power of this world, and he proposed such a law, counterpart Babic explained it very nicely, that on the spending side they took as much money and didn't think about the citizens of Serbia at the time, I am interested in how now this concern of what we just want to be transparent, and clearly visible? The fact that you once had in the law that the political party could buy immovable property exclusively by means of funds collected from private sources, do you know how it went? For example, some party close to them go to Vojvodina Development Bank, for example, take on a beautiful loan and then, of course, as private funds to the political party. It's state money. Of course, that loan never had to pay back, or, say, some tycoon who didn't pay taxes to this country and then from not paying taxes for so many years to them as political foreigners, it's supposed to be private funds, essentially state money. He can't do that now. By this law we are looking for, and that is otherwise civilizational fluid, I apologize to them for losing the election and for the resources they can get are significantly less, so the citizens decided in their elections. I'm sorry they didn't win, that we won, but everywhere in the world of the political party, certainly what parliamentary means they get from the state. This time it's publicly visible, we get funds from the budget. After all, real estate is bought, tax is paid here, something back to that budget here, and I'm not sure that the tycoon that wanted to wash the money, by giving them, perhaps, some sort of private means, that he was just so kind as to get something back to the state from what he took. That is why I really think that this is a much better solution than it has ever been before, it seems to me far more transparent and that the citizens of Serbia will also have insight into what is actually done with the funds, especially, of course, the funds from the budget itself. An amendment like this that has been asked to erase such a thing is absolutely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13569	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. Mr. Babic, do you want a word as a proposing officer? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Let the colleagues speak before, and I will eventually.) ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13570	Thank you, Your Honor. These days, we have heard from the representatives, or the promoter of the amendments of one party and another party, or two parties that were once one really amazing thing. We have heard today a sentence that says - it will not affect these changes all parties in the same way. Gentlemen, it's not our fault you took the election 6%. When you had a popularity in this country of 30% or more, you didn't reach for these measures, and if the state was in a catastrophic situation at the time. In 2011, when you raised money from the budget for political parties in this country, unemployment was 25%, 200,000 people were out of work, but you did not dare to show by example that you wanted to enter some reforms, to separate the money that would go to the parties. On the other hand, we heard one more thing from the party, or DS, I must say, on the basis of it says – the achievement of the programme to allocate funds. That's what we heard last week. Gentlemen, if we were to watch your programme, you wouldn't get anything out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and we don't want the opposition to be put in a situation where you don't have any income for any of the campaigns we expect in the future. Also, when we talk about buying real estate, is it better to take real estate funds from some sponsors under the quote, or that, if we cut funds for political parties, it will be out of the budget, so that it is transparent for citizens to see what you have taken, in what ways you use it, in which way, in which way, in order to make everything available to the law, available to citizens and available to this Parliament? No, there was obviously some other practice in the past where some people who financed and bought real estate to the parties, after the party came to power looking for something in return, asked to privatise a company so that they could destroy it or set up certain ministers, perhaps the Prime Ministers as we had the case in 2008. We do not want to deal with such a practice, or policy. We want one responsible way to make everything available to the public, transparently, and the fact that we've reduced the party's income to the most affected by the SNS, but that is parallel to those reforms that we're carrying out throughout the administration, in the whole state, we want to apply to the parties as well. We will continue that path, because we believe that this path is right, and you will always find for the same thing to criticise, because you have no vision, you have no idea what to offer the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13571	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13572	Here, the amendment promoters were told on several occasions by the legislator that they are submitting this amendment because they regret some of their lost funds. I have a question to ask the legislator, that everything and if we accept this incorrect argument – what about the criticism of the Anti-Corruption Agency? What about the criticism of transparency?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13573	Ms. Jerkov, you did not get the right to reply, but you should talk about the submission of the amendment to article 1 which was submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic. Please talk about this amendment to ALEXANDRA JERKOV: I am talking about the arguments that the legislator has cited as an explanation for not accepting the amendment and it is my right to compromise with these arguments. Miss Jerkov, I don't see you in the amendments to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13575	I have the right to talk about another person's amendment. Where does it say you can only talk about your amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13576	You can only talk about whether or not you will support the amendment, not why the Proposer refuses the amendment. Mrs. Karavidic, please don't get out of the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13577	So I'm just saying in the National Assembly that we're going to support and I'm trying to convince the other MPs that the explanation that the billmaker gives for not accepting the amendment isn't correct and I'm paving with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13578	Mrs. Karavidic, please listen to the MP who speaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13579	So, Mr Babic was saying why the amendment should not be accepted, he said that he has always, not only him but his parties, always been against this great secession for political parties and that this is precisely what is being achieved that political parties are now getting less money from the budget. While Mr. Babic and his party were confident that many funds were being allocated to the parties, it did not prevent them from making previous elections under the terrible law and spending 800 million dinars for them to make Aleksandar Vukic prime minister. So much for saving three and a half million euros, and the 2014 elections, which were conducted not because of their time, but because of Alexander Vukic's wish to be prime minister, cost Serbian citizens more than the 2012 elections. So if the SNS was so opposed to the law that brought evil DS, it is my question – why did it not change it for two and a half years, but waited to conduct its elections that were conducted solely because Vucic would be prime minister, because after the election, she made the same coalition that was before the elections, but now decided to save Serbian citizens the incredible three and a half million euros after spending 800 million dinars in the election? One more thing, since Mr. Babic has said several times here, and I will because you don't think he's breaking the Rules of Procedure when he says that some colleagues here are rude, impudence, to rob and kidnap, I will say that Mr. Babic lied. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13580	After the warning of Mr. Veselinovic, I do not allow such words to be used in this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13581	I'll go on then. Mr Babic incorrectly informed citizens who could get the impression that the loan the DS took from the Vojvodina Development Bank is returning citizens. Just for the sake of the truth, this loan was given so much to the good eyes that DS two and a half years later still returned and the citizens didn't give a penny for his return and that DS was willing to meet the legal obligations to not have any debt from the campaign, and not like your coalition partners to violate the Law on the financing of political entities, is exclusively a matter of DS and it has nothing to do with the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13582	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. However, I think the citizens of Serbia wanted the Prime Minister to be Alexander Vukic. That's why they gave the referendum support. Here you go, Proposer Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13583	Mr. Chairman, many lies have been made in the heat of the political struggle of previous colleagues, that the SNS has done nothing for two and a half years. The 2011 law, which is made by DS, which can preserve a rock for cabbage, but if the futotic cabbage, not stone, can also be from Soko Banja, predicted that 0.15% of the funding funds for political activities are set aside from the expenditure side of the RS budget. Dear citizens, every loan, every dollar, every euro, every dollar that entered the Republic of Serbia from 2011 to 2012, 0.15% went from loans paid by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the DS pocket. In 2012, The SNS amending the Bill on the Budget System applies that these 0.15% are set aside not from the expenditure side, not from loans returning citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but from revenues and from tax revenues. This is what the SNS did and under such conditions went to the elections in 2012 and 2014 respectively. After that, the SNS six months because we can't do all the crap that's been made for years, it's the easiest thing to go out and not listen, and that's the democratic dialogue it's been calling for, over the past 12, 13 years to correct. Here's a way to make it right. Look at the esteemed friends of amendment six or seven. Look at the essence of the grudge against this law, that 0.105% of the separation for political activities is changed to 0.130%, by amendment, and that's why I said it was brazen and rude. And now I'm saying it's brazen and rude to re-enlarge and re-adjust.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13584	Mr. Babic, the same is true of you not to use those words in the National Assembly. National MP Marko Djurisic, from the post: Why don't you stop him? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13585	Mr. Becic, you're holding a no-pressure session and you're holding a session the way you think.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13586	Mr. Babic, you don't have a chance to speak like that to the chairman. (The People's Messenger Zoran Babic, from the place, will you give me your word, because you interrupted me? Do whatever you want. Give me your word. I can't because it's full of leaves. I have to delete the list. Here you go. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13587	Now we'll see what's been done. In January of this year, the Belgrade City Budgetary Inspecting Agency submitted a request to the Belgrade Criminal Court for the initiation of proceedings against the former and current director of JP "Vračar Business Area", Aleksandar Djurasinovic and Mihajl Samofalov for violating the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on the Budget System. Both are burdened by contracting works and services in 2010 and 2011, but by paying construction works that were invoiced, but were practically not carried out. During the budgetary control, inspectors found that the management of the "Vračar business space" had, on several occasions, awarded construction jobs to the company "Sing" d.o.o. from Belgrade. It is indicative that during the term of office of Director Michael Samofalov, this company was awarded a job in the negotiation procedure without a public call and publication of a tender – adaptation of the facility in Krunska 69, where DS headquarters is located. The Krunska auxiliary building was set on fire during the October 10th 2010 "Prade of Pride" conflict, and even though the inspectors failed to establish illegal activities, this procurement is suspicious of the speed it was made. Instead of making a public call, "business space" sent an invitation to submit offers to the address of three companies, etc. The job was given to the official of the local board of Vracar, Dragan Maravic, and it is respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected citizens of Belgrade, cost all of you outside of this law eight million dinars. Let's move on. The great masters of small procurement are working around DS, Vračar and Crown Street. One of the largest DS donors and definitely the biggest loser among companies is Intelkon from Belgrade, which deals with cable communication and whose owner is the Cypriot firm, Ejmar Limited. The company was founded the day after the election was called on 14 March 2008, for example. In 2012, the ruling party gave five million dinars of donations even though the same company ended that year with a loss of 116 million dinars. You don't pay taxes, you don't pay workers, you don't pay pensions, you don't pay social services. Five million DS is enough and you're forgiven. A much bigger loss, but a much bigger donation was made by Milinković kop d.o.o. from Ledinac, registered for trade in large and founded 02.07.2016. Again, something about the election with only two employees who paid six million dinars to the Democrats, but lost four million. The list is an extension of the DS funding. Let's move on. The owner of the company "Metropolit" d.o.o., if you know the company, those who take care of the cabbage and the cabbage stone, donated 400,000 dinars of DS. Zarko Radonjic, it is because he repairs everything, thus everything works in Serbia, has been arrested on suspicion that the organiser of a criminal group that has damaged Serbia's budget by malfeasance on imports and customs of goods 10m euros. Zarko Radonjic, the one who repairs everything, thus functioning everything in Serbia, has been arrested on suspicion that the organiser of a criminal group that has damaged Serbia's 10m-euro budget by malversions on imports and customs of goods. Zarko Radonjic is again arrested as head and head of the customs mafia. Come on, you probably forgot who Oliver Dulic is. If they look at each other, please, I believe you're nervous, but I'm talking about how she financed herself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13588	Mr. Granny, just one piece of information, which is why you're speaking now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13589	I speak as an authorised representative of the motionor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13590	Then you can only go two minutes after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13591	What did you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13592	You can only take two minutes for the amendment. You can even by amendment as a representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13593	All right, I'll get back to you after I see a special sensitivity to the business of an Oliver Dulic firm with 70 different state bodies and institutions and how it is financed. So, it's not good when three and a half million euros remain in the budget, it's supposed to increase that percentage, and in 2011, it's increased, and now I'm changingly seeing it increase, but this is good. You pay the DS, you can do whatever you want, you can be the head of the Customs Mafia, you can do whatever you want with public procurement, only if you donate. I guess that's good. I don't think that's why the SNS is changing this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13594	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13595	The Honorable chairman, a 106th member who says the speaker can only talk about the subject. The topic is to discuss the amendment to Article 1 which provides that parties in the future can buy real estate from funds, from all funds obtained from private and public sources, and our amendment is to delete that change. I don't see what it has to do with the amendment. I'm sorry that he didn't just take advantage of that opportunity to speak, let's say, about people who receive social aid from the budget, and based on that law, a bad law that still stands today can be seen that they donated his party funds and that he took to read those names would not be enough for him all the time his MP group is and all the time most of them have, because that's thousands and thousands of names. Whether this is the way we're going to conduct the debate or we're going to lead to how this law applies or we're going to accuse people. Without any evidence here, we're reading something that hasn't been proven in any court of law in the country, and it's even said that no crime has been proven, but people here are still muddy. Please protect the integrity of this assembly. We can also bring this list of social aid people who have paid SNS money, although they receive money from the Republic of Serbia's budget as socially endangered, so we can read these names here by the day after tomorrow, but it's not a topic. Please give me your word, because I've been waiting here an hour to talk about the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13596	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. Allow me, Mr. Bozovic, to just explain and ask if you want the Assembly to plead? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. ) Mr. Djurisic, Mr. Babic is an authorised representative of the proposings, he has submitted to this Assembly a law that explains in his own way and explains the reasons why the law was filed. He can tell why the law is changing. He can say everything he thinks and that he's been bad before and that in his own way, he also says that the information that caused these MPs to support the law and he, as a proposing, submitted the bill. So I can't react in the manner of every MP and explain why some law and the reasons that led him to pass the law. Normally, everything that was negative was in the previous period in the functioning of some law. The word is Mr. Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13597	I thank the chairman. I'm advertising Article 107. The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I think it's very important that we don't all together allow this to be a place where we read something that was written in certain tabloids, the doubts that existed in the cults, not the topic of debate at this session of the National Assembly. There have been various former and current officials, everything that is related to the work of the competent state authorities, and I am the first to investigate this from the beginning to the end, but I am not about mentioning two and a half years later Oliver Dulic against whom an unremembered hack was being conducted in the media, and in the end, neither indictment has been able to raise out of the absence of evidence and that we are now returning the mill to a thing that is completely pointless and in today's debate is not going to contribute to any better either, nor third party, and above all to the citizens of Serbia. That's why I'm calling you as chairman to get back on the agenda and talk about the amendments. The amendment that Mrs. Karavidic made. The amendments that Mrs. Alexandera Jerkov made, I don't even know who else of the MPs and that we try to make this, in our opinion, bad law, mischanges and additions to the law, to warn them by making certain amendments all together explain, adopt and ultimately make the citizens better than this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13598	I thank Mr. Bozovic. The reasoning is the same as for the previous breach of the Rules of Procedure, except I will add that at the time of the use of a word that I do not think should be mentioned in the National Assembly, I have responded, and for everything else there is an explanation that I have said in the previous breach of the Rules of Procedure. As far as the contribution to talking about the subject is concerned, the most you MPs can contribute to talking about the subject and the laws on the agenda, in this case about amendments. Do you want to make a statement about the injury? (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Yes. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13600	The Honorable Chairman, you have violated the provisions of Article 27, Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Please take care of the order at this session. When MPs from the opposition begin to earn, you are obliged to warn them, not to succumb to the influence of the opposition, because it is simply amazing when the ruling party's MP mentions the Vojvodina Development Bank to move the entire Boran Pajtic chamber to advertise and throw. You have a duty to keep your word in this session. Please apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13601	I'm obliged to give an explanation, I was merely reacting to the mention of a word already mentioned, and why we had a breach of the Rules of Procedure here, nothing else affected my reaction. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Biljana Pantic Pija, from the place: No. ) The word has a People's MP, deputy member of Dejan Nikolic's group, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13602	It's a Mr. Chairman-in-Office phenomenon of the average course of progressive consciousness, which appeared in the tabloids, that's what happened. You'll allow me ten seconds in the replica to address you, you need to get out of that party row. Being ashamed of the individual MPs is nothing compared to what can happen when the citizens become a disgrace to this institution. You are obliged to protect her and not to allow this kind of address by the MPs of the people. You're wrong if you think yelling will make what you're saying true. We will talk here about how this law will save three and a half million euros a year, and in four years, SNS will provide 600 million dinars for the new campaign, we will talk about it. And while you were radicals and now as advances for all previous governments you said nothing was wrong, that they were not solving problems, that they were not good, and then you were elected in 2012 and you confirmed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13603	I thank you, Mr. Nikolic, but since I see a lack of understanding with the MPs, just one more time to let you know. We have amendments on the agenda, as well as a law amending and supplementing the existing law, not a new law. As you've just said, I would understand that we're making a new law here that brings money to someone. Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, who is proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13604	I'm surprised you're so bad at talking about coalition partners. Don't talk so bad about radicals, they extended your political life to Bojan Pajtic in Vojvodina. You may also get quotas, then a race at Nicola Tesla Airport. This is about principle. This is about the principle of collapse of basic democratic principles. No matter how much money he gets from public finances, nor did Mr Nikolic, nor did I, determine no one in this room. As much as anyone will get the money, Serbian citizens have decided in the elections. They've given their trust. They said not to you, or they gave you a stone to keep for the cabbage. And that would be state-of-the-art in a few years. You'd probably make out that stone to make a brother-in-law. Somewhere that would have been taken away and ruined. How much the parliamentary group and how much of the party receives from public funds and how the money is allocated depends on the election results. Your desire to make election results where they don't belong is dangerous for democracy. Nicely practiced speech and a few phrases that are spoken without fainting, and we also saw that they fainted when spoken, they are not enough if you are working against democracy, if you are working against the will of the citizens. Here is the main principle of what you have failed, what you have even tried with the amendment to disrupt, which is that the mass of money allocated to the functioning of political parties is smaller. The distribution is determined by the citizens. You want that amount of money to be bigger, to ignore the election will of the citizens, and to take more for yourself. That's enough, 12 years, you've taken a lot from the "Development Bank" and from the citizens and from the budget, so enough, come on, people, more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13605	Thank you, colleague Granny. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13606	We've heard more than once that the will of the citizens has been determined, and that's true, but at the will of the citizens, various factors have affected. Hold on, Mr. Granny. It also affected campaign costs, which were spent by the parties in the campaign. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Ha, ha, ha. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13607	Please don't speak to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13608	The MP threw it away, you saw it yourself. In the 49.47% campaign, all the funds all the parties spent, your party spent. You got 48.6% of the votes. (Ninoslav Giric, from the place: So where's the mistake? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13609	Please, Mr. Giric, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13610	We, unfortunately, couldn't have that much resources. We couldn't get a loan of 400 million dinars. You're here talking about loans and taking loans. How much credit did you take? Where did you get it? On what terms did you take it? Tell that to the citizens, if that's any problem, since you're always talking about loans. You took both in 2012 and this year. And why is it a problem if only one party takes credit and that's all they're talking about? This law has just brought an opportunity to see how much he spends, what he spends on, who he takes money from and how he gets money from. And then it's very interesting to see, say, the obligation of the law, this very bad one, which you're not going to change, which says 5% of the public income is spent on the cost of professional training, training, international co-operation and working with membership. And how did the SNS spend that 5% in 2013? At the celebration of the organization of the five-year-old SNS. You spent 33.5 million people in Serbia at a meeting in Arena in 2013. Why are you attacking here what happened when in 2011 2.7% was gross national income growth, two billion euros in foreign investment. And how long was it last year? It was 700 million. What was the growth rate? It was 1%.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13611	Mr. Djurishic, please, that tone is not like this high house. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: What tone? I'm not yelling at anyone. If you haven’t noticed, you are shouting in the National Assembly. Secondly, I would like to ask you, we are part of the 1st Amendment, which was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic. Please explain the amendment you have submitted, which is a representative of the promoter, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Please explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13612	Thank you. That's exactly what I'm doing. I am explaining why we have submitted this amendment, responding to all the criticism of why our amendment is bad, which I have listened to in the past hour and a half. I continue to argue that our amendment is good, that our amendment is beneficial, because it will prevent possible abuse of the funds of the public revenue received by political parties. It is clear that so far there has been a ban on not being able to buy real estate and we think that this is a better solution than what the Proposer is proposing. We haven't heard any arguments, as far as we're concerned, good enough to convince us to change our minds. But we heard an insult and false information word here and we had to answer it, not through the replica, because you don't give us the right to do it, but using this little time that we have in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13613	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. Mr. Babic, on what grounds? Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13614	Mr. Chairman, it's good that we heard, and this is not even the first, and it probably won't be the last time, that the sale of Miskovic's assets that took place in 2010 and 2011 is a direct foreign investment. I don't see any benefit of the state from all that, except what it will serve, here's how many billion, unless they had some common assets within that property and within these companies? All right, then. I wish I were this loud, not so loud, but I'd heard these words in 2011 and 2012. I wish I had heard that tone, and when the SNS from its founding until 2012 came from public finances, it was nothing. Even then, the amendment's promoter did not worry about what conditions actors have on Serbia's political scene. He didn't care. He was in a nationalized house on Crown Street, downtown. For that building of several hundred or thousands of squares, I don't know, he paid a few thousand dinars, more citizens of Belgrade paid an interesting price than they paid for both the rent and everything else. But then they did not worry about saying, as it is for you, let us ensure all the same conditions, and let us be equal. No, it was important that the law was passed, and such a law was in 2011, the Law on the financing of political activities – 0.150% of credit, of every dinar, of every euro that entered both through banks and through international financial organisations, ended in the hands of DS political actors in different aggregate states, but not in the hands of the SNS, nor did we ask for such a thing, and then the amendment promoter did not worry about the same conditions of all actors on the political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13615	The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a two-minute replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13616	I guess I could say two minutes and 20 seconds, if the predecessor could talk that much, so can I.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13617	The line is two minutes, I have to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13618	And for 20 seconds the previous speaker spoke, but no problem, it's fine. You know what? One thesis here keeps repeating itself, and apparently there's an evil intention behind it. It's been said that so far... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: That's a good dictionary? So we're evil and it's a good dictionary or should I throw you a sit-down? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13619	Mr. Granny, you're throwing yourself out of the bench, but you're not letting me at the moment I wanted to... So I'm the same thing, so I'm mean? Mr. Granny, the moment I wanted to react, you interrupted me. So you're not letting me run this session. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Come ahead of me once.) ) Please, you are the promoter, please allow this session to continue. Mr. Djurishic, my colleague reacted exactly when I wanted to, when I turned on the microphone and when I wanted to tell you that you still tried to adapt the dictionary to the high House of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13620	Thank you. One minute you took all this away from me. Thank you. So, in order not to be mistaken, 0.15% of how far it's been allocated from the expenditure side of the budget, it's been out of the net expenditure. So, from the budget expenditure reduced to transfers, that's what the reckoning was, in all the last three years, you know that yourself. We've established a budget here, you know how it's accounted for, how and how it's been allocated to political parties over the past three years. Don't keep repeating something that isn't true, thinking it'll eventually become true. I beg you, this country needs to be spared, we agree on that, how it should be saved, what it is, that we disagree on. Since you are funded from 2008 to 2012, you can ask a colleague from your parliamentary group to remind you how they are, and what they said about them three years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13621	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. Replica, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13622	I don't know how to define when someone gets up and says -- we're for saving, and then they submit the amendment, it seems to me number six, where that savings that's defined is nominally 0.105% said -- no, no, more for political parties, 0.130%. How is it being saved? It is one thing to go out for a pay phone and say – we are for saving, and then hand over another amendment to allow political parties more. On the other hand, where does it say what you listed? I interpret it as Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic. You write as you speak, read as it's written. Now that's not it. It's not that we brought in 2011, that political parties are financed from budget expenditure, as it says in the law. From the expenditure side of the budget, from each loan, from each borrowing, 0.15% went to political parties, to everything except the SNS, and I'm proud of that, and that's what it says. Let's not interpret something that isn't. In 2012, a change was made, but not by this law, by the Budgetary System Act, where it was transferred from expenditure to the revenue side of the budget and from tax revenues. By law on the budget system... (Marco Djurisic, from the place: "No, how can I?" )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13623	Please, Mr. Djurishic, don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13624	In 2012, not in 2011, and so do the diagrams I have from the Ministry of Finance, which show no decline in 2011 or 2012, but the other half of 2012. Please don't interpret it as you do, interpret it as it really says.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13625	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13626	What you just said, it doesn't say anything in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13627	Thank you. This closes the circle of replicas. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13628	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not accept the proposed amendment, and I think that Mr. Chairman is more than obviously based on the course of the discussion and its duration, with all the efforts you are making to keep this debate on focus, and what they are persistently refusing, I think the amendment promoter, and the MPs who have expressed their support in this proposal. Why isn't the amendment good, and why should we reject it? It refers specifically, I will remind you briefly, since I believe that a little has gone a long way to pay attention to the promoter and those who support the amendment from the content of the amendment itself to everything else, that it is an opportunity to buy real estate from those funds provided for financing political activities from public sources. First, we have heard absolutely no argument against the possibility of having immobilities, neither from the amendment promoters nor from those who support this amendment. So no one sees anything controversial. Secondly, we have not seen anything controversial in the formulation that everything that belongs to income and what is available exclusively to regular political activities. No one sees anything controversial here either. We have not even seen the consequences of the adoption of the amendment could have on the amount of funds that are determined from public sources, because there is no such consequence. These funds, and if we adopt this amendment, are defined, and defined, in a different way. So, we can't hear absolutely any reason why we're going to achieve any additional savings here, because with that saving, this amendment has absolutely nothing to do with it. So it's not a questionable motive, it's not a questionable way to spend money, it's not a questionable asset itself, what's left in the end? I'm just afraid, only the possibility of using the word "abuse" enough times today in the debate and, if black on white, it's clear that the use of funds defined by law is the way the law defines. And what remains, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? What remains, apart from the possibility that all this great time today is used in the criticism of the Government and the parliamentary majority, very general, very principled nature, which goes all the way, Mr President, that if I have not made a mistake somewhere, the MPs who express their support for this amendment are, in fact, the same MPs who are entirely on the line of what the legislator of this law proposes, and not only encourage the possibility of obtaining immobilities from public sources, but also very well interpreting and supporting them. So, for all these reasons, I don't think we should support this amendment anyway. In addition, I do not think that this debate should be further encouraged, since its intentions are simply what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13629	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Anyone else want to go by the amendment? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Jugovic and joint MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13630	Nothing, I'll just meet another fellow with content, that's all. Proposed amendments to this amendment. The Law on the financing of political activities in Article 11(4) changes and reads – a political party that acquires immovable assets from public sources can use the property exclusively to carry out its political activities. This proposed amendment, resulting from the SPO and SNS agreement, strengthens the frameworks for consistent application of the law, which is the spending of funds exclusively for the purpose of political activities. To the political party, this is an explanation of the amendment, it can be economically cost-effective to buy a certain property from public sources under favourable conditions rather than lease it. However, funding the regular work of political parties from the annual budget should generally aim to meet the party's basic financial needs, not to create excessive value or long-term financial stability, and therefore this right should be limited to the purchase of immovable property that would be used exclusively to carry out political activities. This amendment is the result of our positive position on the suggestions of the non-governmental sector and this is a good path towards moving this legislative body into the reform process and an indication of civil society's concern for the adoption of valid European legislative frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13631	I thank Mr. Jugovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13632	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as one of the legislators of this law, I must say that I am pleased that the motionary's representative has accepted this amendment. I don't know why any parties are complaining. The importance of the law is that the parties acquire property and that they can support certain political activities from that property, that is, in a certain way, by making it possible for political entities to buy or not buy real estates, but by being able to carry out their political activities in part thanks to these properties. This is good for another reason. So, so far, we've had a case for certain political parties to take loans and not to advocate anything. Therefore, those political parties that have not done so have nothing against this law, because they want to gain real estate and guarantee that they are in the future for future loans, political failures, and that the state, or banks, can be charged in case the party does not repay the credit, that they do not have to return it to the citizens of Serbia, but to take away property from the political party. That's what those who have proposed this law think. So, to acquire real estate and if they come into a position that they have to withdraw credit for political activities for election campaigns, that in that case they can pawn their real estate and that you do not burden the citizens with the loan. The others, who are rebelling, and we are witnessing that they are largely rebelling, although under the mandate and under this law, they will still receive 25% more funds per term than the political party, or the electoral list that had the largest number of MPs, and they will still receive less funding from the parties that have fewer MPs in the future, and I think it is fair, but they continue to rebel. So, it's about political parties that have been raising loans and didn't advocate anything, so when they don't repay the loan, then the loan burdens Serbian citizens instead of burdening the political party. I still think that this party that proposed this law will acquire real estate and guarantee it to the state and the people, and those others, who object to these solutions, do not have to buy real estate and believe that they will not buy them and will not build them. They didn't make a parrot house or dog house in their careers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13633	Thank you. The amendment is proposed by the MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13634	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is not, immediately to point out, the fruit of the agreement in which we participated between the SPO and the SNS, but in any case we think it is very important for the simple reason why the current legal ban on political parties not being able to obtain immovable property in this way was not without arguments in 2011, but in any case we felt that, if the parties had and had that possibility, it exclusively refers to their further functioning. Therefore, in favour of amending the law, in the direction of allowing political parties to acquire immovable property, it could also be stated that they can currently receive money from public sources to pay for real estate, for example, that a certain situation can happen to pay more to buy a certain property than to pay for its lease. However, in this case, these immovableities must exclusively be used for political activities and not for commercial purposes. On several occasions, we had the opportunity to discuss this issue and in principle debate, and I must underline that this amendment came from no agreement whatsoever, but certainly from one communication with Transparency Serbia, because they were initiators, in the end, and together with a number and a circle of MPs, those who initially proposed such an amendment. So if they had any other purpose, the properties that would be made this way, therefore, profits from further sale or rental of these properties, then that would certainly not be the purpose of this amendment. Of course, we think this is the way to do this matter more precisely. The Democratic Party is, in that sense, very proud and grateful that this amendment has been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13635	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word is proposed by MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13636	I think one of the promoters of this amendment, Mr Jugovic, was quite clear when he said this was done in agreement both in communication and with representatives of civil society and with representatives of our two parliamentary groups. When I say our two parliamentary groups, I mean SPO, DHSS and SNS. I wouldn't be ashamed of the deal. I wouldn't be ashamed of the point of merger, I wouldn't be ashamed of communication, I wouldn't be ashamed and I wouldn't say it in my speech – no, we didn't agree. There is no need, dear colleague Bozovic, without the need to call you to replica, to be ashamed of the agreement and to be ashamed of communication. The people in Serbia sent us here to communicate, to agree, to find the best solutions, not to fight, not to hate, so there's no reason to run away from that communication. After all, as a political party you were once against and communication and agreements with other people, so now you have made a coalition to the Serbian Radical Party at the province level and it has supported and supported Bojan Pajtic, so communication is good in political life. Without communication, you can't. If there's no communication, there's no deal. If there's no deal, there's no improvement. I am very proud of both communication and agreement with the MP group of respected fellow Yugoslavs, but also with representatives of civil society and "Transparency" and I am grateful for the energy they have invested these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13637	Thank you. Right on line, MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13638	Compared to these relations with the Serbian Radical Party, me, firstly, that fascination with Vojvodina is absolutely obvious here, only I would place it in that domain or category – which is Grandma's pleasure... And you move on. I find it infinitely interesting that you are connecting the Democratic Party and the Serbian Radical Party, you who took off your badges in 2008 and put tissues in your jackets and started pretending to be Tose, that you did not know the people with whom you shared the common space for 18 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13639	Mr. Nikolic, today you have just warned of words that should not be used in this high house. I ask all MPs once again to adjust their language to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13640	Tosha's my friend. There was nothing offensive. I believe that this relationship you had in 2008 towards Vojislav Seselj will also be given to Alexander Vukic as soon as the ship begins to sink. My relationship with the Serbian Radical Party is the same as it was in 1991, when I was 12 years old, it's only 23 years older, and what's yours? I believe you'll have something to talk about and talk about on Monday. I see there's some loose ends here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13641	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13642	Lack of argument, excess insult. A cliché. I'm not fascinated and I have no fascination, but I have respect for Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina. The fascination with what has been done and what is done in Vojvodina has the competent investigative state bodies, which are so fascinated and people are caught by the head of what they see both in the Development Bank and the Development Fund. They're baptizing the people. They've all been done. (Dejan Nikolic, from the place: I Universal Bank. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13643	Mr. Nikolic, don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13644	What you, Mr. Nikolic, would want to escape, but you can't get away from it. You know, we're in a world of communication, transparency, the public, and then for the start of the session of the province's parliament quorum that the Serbian Radical Party... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place, you gave. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13645	Miss Jerkov, don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13646	So quorum, not only quorum, but one of those famous 63, how many of these are from the Serbian Radical Party? Why are those people who have left you, who have left you in the political life of Bojan Pitiæ, now you are ugly? When the ship begins to sink, it seems to me that when Tadic's boat starts sinking, you quickly went into the arms of Gilas, so when Gilas started to sink, you went very quickly into the arms of Bojan Pajtic. Now I see you're very close to Borko Stefanovic, so you're a ship's sinking specialist. You're a specialist to get off that sinking ship first. Don't, please, talk about it and don't take it out on your years, but on what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13647	I thank you, Mr. Babic, with a request not to mention Mr. Stefanovic today. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13648	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, here, at least as it says in his explanation, says that we have agreed to this amendment to accept it, but apparently with different intentions, someone has accepted this. All that the previous amendment has put us here imputed, with the acceptance of this amendment actually falling into the water, because here we see the honesty of the SNS in that all these properties that the party buys can only be used for political activities. So it can't happen that the party buys real estate, so it rents it, that it makes a hotel out of it or what someone thought, but it can only use political activities, which is very, very important and that the citizens of Serbia know it. I think it's bad if Serbian citizens don't deal with politics. I'm not usually a supporter of that the more difficult that we shouldn't be interested in politics, I'm quite a supporter of young people being activated as much as possible. I think this is a good way for young people, in line with their ideas, to activate and have a space where they can get their political ideas to articulate. Not bad in life when two prevailing political ideas are found together again to try to get some cake, but it is a very good assessment by Serbian citizens. I expect them all tomorrow or the day after tomorrow at Surcin Airport. I believe he'll enjoy it together with his coalition partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13649	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13650	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is why I think it is not enough that you accept this amendment, as Mr Jugovic said, which was agreed with the SNS, and with civil society, Mr Jugovic, so to speak. First of all, because you've been deceived, and I'll tell you why you've been deceived. Because the position remains, the last position in this Article 11, which is said to be – income from assets is made up of revenue from the sale of movable and immovable assets, the lease, I stress, the lending of immovable property owned by the political party and interest on the stakes given by banks and other financial organisations in the Republic of Serbia. I ask you, what happens if the party buys real estate from a part of its own resources, from a part of the budget and leases it? Is that a profit on the basis of the funds obtained from the budget? Yes, it is. Who will exercise control of the percentage of funds invested in the budget? On the other hand, let Mr Babic answer me as a representative of the mandated promoter, how the next situation will be treated. The political party, the SNS, let's say we take it as an example, because it can be nicely combined, buys an object to hold a councilman in quarantine.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13651	Mr. Veselinović, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13652	Mr. Becic, a very real situation. So buy an object that he uses to hold a councilman in quarantine.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13653	Don't insult the councilmen. I find that this is how you insult the councilmen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13654	I don't insult the councilman in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13655	Please don't do this. Whether it is an MP or a committee member, he is a committee member or an MP of the National Assembly or a Republic of Serbia, a local self-government. Don't insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13656	That's right. So, buy an object, an immovableity, where they'll keep the boards quarantined. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13657	I don't want to let you insult the councilmen. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What is the dispute here? In what way do I insult them? ) In such a way, by saying – quarantine. The council is not sick to go into quarantine. Do you want to talk about the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13658	It means I don't mention quarantine. If the political party uses the facilities it purchased from the budget in a broad legal manner, it uses the term that the premises are used exclusively to carry out its political activities. Please, Mr. Babic, give me an authentic interpretation – what is using these rooms exclusively to carry out your political activities? Could these activities be, I don't want to say that word, but could it be taken in a broader legal interpretation for activities? It is in some way a realisation of the party's interest that tomorrow's vote has enough votes to vote on some local authorities in the municipality, the city, the local community, the republic or I don't know what can come into question tomorrow. Is it possible to use it and might it be good if we already know, because you're the promoter, what will be your position on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13659	Thank you. I don't want to censor words here, I just want to protect a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in this case the councilors, whom you have offended in such a way, because you can imagine how many councilmen there are at this point in the Republic of Serbia, the councilors you want to insult, and I don't think that this high house should be insulted by the committees and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. I can't give you time for an authorised representative, because you've already spoken according to the amendment. You can use the replica, because your name is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13660	Quarantine is part of medical activity. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: No, athletes go to quarantine. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13661	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13662	These are political activities and it is clearly said that the political party that acquires immovable property over funds from public sources can use the property exclusively to carry out its political activities. The fact that the previous speaker mixes medicine, politics, sport, youth, whatever, just to say something, speaks more about him than about us. I don't know where they kept these three circuit MPs borrowed from Bojana Pitiæ? Maybe in that quarantine or in that space.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13663	Mr. Nikolic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13664	What I want to tell you, Mr. Chairman, is here a stenogram of the address of the SNS parliamentary group – Forward Serbia, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, on 7 June 2011. Here's how we fought against this kind of criminal and disabled law on funding political activities back then. "What have you done here? Distribution of funds from public sources, you well charged to Serbian citizens 0.15% of the expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Where did you get the idea that political parties would be financed from the expenditures of the Republic of Serbia? Why didn't you say – from income? Do you know how much Serbia owes to cover the expenditure? Let Serbian citizens know that Serbia is in charge of funding political parties. Are you waiting for Serbia to be in charge to get more money to fund the political party? Why didn't you accept it from the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, even 0,075%, and not 0.5% as we once suggested? Why did you accept? Here's the free bill. For this year, 2011, 577,609.000 dinars will be allocated under the current law. Under the new Law, which was passed in 2011, you would have allocated 1,270,000,000 dinars, and if you accepted our amendment, 544,800,000 dinars would be allocated for this year. Even less than under the existing law. So you're not passing this law to increase political party revenues, are you? If you want to increase the revenues of political parties, say it publicly and openly – we want to provide the parties with bigger revenues, then I could understand that. “ Here is how the SNS was treated in 2011, as we are now able to create and when we have a majority in the parliament shared by RS citizens, smaller expenditures, less for political parties. And then we warned you, and then Mr Tomislav Nikolic spoke and suggested amendments to be less. No, you have doubled from 577m dinars to 1,270,000,000 dinars, according to the 2011 law, to political parties only in 2011. It's a deviation between our two policies, and not about those quarantines where you held those who supported those who supported...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13665	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13666	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Just tell me, do the rules apply to me as they do to Mr. Babic and Djukanovic? Can I talk about the government of Vojvodina, my understanding of the world, reading old stenograms and so on, or Mr. Veselinović? Just to tell us who can talk about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13667	Ms. Jerkov, in this case, cannot apply to you or Mr. Babic, because in this case, Mr. Babic is a representative of the promoter and he can speak in the manner that explains why he submitted this law and why he represents a group of MPs, the reasons why they submitted this law. You can only talk about an amendment that is...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13668	In the way I think I explain the reasons why I should accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13669	Let me, don't talk to me, let me just...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13670	I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13671	Let me remind you, we are on the amendment to Article 1 which has been accepted by the promoter. Here, you can talk about the reasons why you think this amendment should not have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13672	I can't talk about the reasons why I think the amendment shouldn't have been accepted, since I submitted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13673	I'm sorry, but thank the motionary's representative for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13674	That, Mr. Bozovic and I, did, given that we proposed the amendment together. However, after that, we heard some strange things in the debate that I think I have the opportunity to answer in the amendment debate as well, as they were said in the amendment debate. I know that the SNS represents an unusual difficulty in counting MPs to 61 at the Vojvodina Assembly. They've been trying to do it for two and a half years, so somehow they're not going to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13675	It's not the subject of the Duke's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13676	It seems to me alone is not the subject of the Vojvodina Assembly, because all the previous speakers spoke about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13677	Let's go back to the amendment you submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13678	If it starts with me, then I accept your suggestion...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13679	Please, you have submitted this amendment which has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13680	... But please make sure that what's going on... Excuse me, Mr. Becic, this is very serious. I ask you to apply what concerns me in the RS Assembly to MPs from the parliamentary group from whom you are selected, because if we talk like this, it really doesn't make sense. Mr. Babic reads some cases from the newspaper a little while ago...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13681	Miss Jerkov, I've already said the difference, in this case, according to these amendments, between you and Mr Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13682	These differences in respect of the Rules of Procedure cannot be, Mr. Becic. The Rules of Procedure apply to all MPs equally.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13683	Miss Jerkov, I'm warning you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13684	If so, then the amendment promoter can speak, as part of what he thinks the amendment should be accepted, absolutely anything that comes to his mind, which Mr Babic does.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13685	He's accepted, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13686	It doesn't matter, and the amendment accepted is under discussion. If the legislator, in the context of an explanation for what the law needs to be adopted, can say anything, then the amendment promoter, as part of an explanation of why he thinks the amendment should be accepted, he can say anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13687	Miss Jerkov...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13688	I'm gonna give up this debate because I can see it's not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13689	I'd like you to listen to me very carefully. I've been saying the reasons why the proposing's representative is talking about why he's passed some law, and then it's very wide. You are now talking about the amendment, which is why you have submitted an amendment that has been accepted by the motionary. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13690	Thank you, Mr. Becic. You hurt the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, for the simple reason that you interrupted Mrs. Alexander Jerkov to finish what was her main intention in this debate. So we can't have...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13691	In this debate, there was no intention of the Duke's Assembly. At that point, just to be clear for the public, I said that the subject was not the Duke's Assembly. If you think that's the main thing why this amendment has been submitted and accepted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13692	Let me just explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You cannot allow some MPs to discuss the amendment, which is essential to this law... If this amendment hadn't been accepted, Mr. Becic, the law would have looked completely different, but what it would look like when this amendment was adopted. So he's fundamentally important to the law and he can essentially change it and he's changed it essentially in that part that's really better than the original proposal was proposed. Ms. Aleksandra Jerkov spoke of the essence, namely the law, according to this amendment, and she had the right to, if you and the other MPs, let me just finish, have the right when they talk about the essence of the law to mention some things from the past, and in what way, who was in the coalition, who voted for which law in 2011, and who today, explains why and how someone today advocates some things that are absolutely not the subject of this agenda. Please treat every MP equally, that we have the right to comment on certain things from the past, as do your colleagues from the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13693	Have you heard what you're talking about? We're here on details, on amendments. You're talking about the reason for the law. We were at the principle hearing two days ago, explaining the law. When you talk about the law, then you can talk widely, and when you talk in particular about amendments, then you can talk about that amendment. Do you want the Assembly to plead, Mr Bozovic? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13694	I am advertising the violation of Article 109, which is said to be a warning to a MP who, despite the warning of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. We had a bit of a quantum example of someone telling someone how difficult it was to count MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly. To be honest, the only thing that was hard for us in Vojvodina was to count that much percent, because we won over 50 percent. It's easy for them, they have six and a half percent, but they're still trying to usurp the government there, with the help of various coalition partners, and I believe, as far as the count goes, it was the hardest thing for people and the prosecution to count the funds from the Vojvodina Development Bank that were robbed by the citizens of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13695	As you had the chance to hear, Mr. Djukanovic, the distinguished colleague after my intervention did not continue, so I thank her for that. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13696	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, is good that the motioner adopted what is meant, which is that the premises, i.e. the properties that are in a situation for certain political parties to buy, should simply be used solely for party purposes. I'll tell you something else. I think there's an idea here that they can go for commercial purposes. They cannot go for commercial purposes, because associations of citizens and political parties are non-profit organisations, there is no possibility of commercial action. If the citizens' associations want to, they have to report to the Agency for Business Registers, to stand in the registration of the association that they want to deal with it. Political parties have ruled it out. When the question arises what happens if a political party does so, then it says, it violates the law. That's one thing. The other thing, what SNS isn't afraid of, it's control. The Anti-Corruption Agency is in control. The control was carried out during previous elections and those before them, and we were never afraid on the ground to control how financial resources were spent. Finally, I think all parties should be grateful to the SNS promoter and MPs for making this kind of decision at all, because we want to reduce the overall impact of any economic operators, of which the parties are simply now forced to rent their business premises. This is primarily the influence of the tycoon, and in the past it must have been the influence of tycoon, especially on certain political parties, who boasted that they had certain types of investment through the purchase of certain enterprises, and they somehow continued by renting certain public, public, or state-owned companies, which were in the capacity of certain large businessmen. It will soon appear in public through a report from various state authorities. These figures, at the monthly level, crossed simply something that can be said to be for commercial purposes. If you say certain institutions are paying tens of thousands and 14,000 euros to private firms, then it shows that there is simply something wrong, and then the Anti-Corruption Agency did not react. There were no institutions or state authorities that responded. Simply, the SNS wants to establish order to free itself of any influence of any tycoon and ultimately to establish a system of control that will apply to all. I don't think there should be any conflict of opinion. The only thing I didn't understand was my colleagues from NDS whether they were for this amendment, since their DS colleagues supported this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13697	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13698	The Honored Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, since we support these amendments to the law and that these amendments apply equally to the ruling coalition and opposition parties. I wonder what's controversial about part of the opposition MPs having something against it. This law, these amendments to the law, enable all alike to buy real estate and in some ways preserve their capital. Unlike them, who used to have money when they were most and who quickly spent it, we will try to preserve the underlying capital in this way. If black days ever come, that capital and that property can be cashed in for something that would benefit the people and the state. This is like that mess that if I use the metaphors of a respected colleague, Marijan Risticevic, it's like when a Serbian peasant prefers his neighbour to die of a cow rather than kidnap him. Since they used to have money and cows and calf in their hands, so they quickly spent it and ran out of money and without most of the money that would bring them new money, they are now against the fact that some others, who would like to act domestically, have no right to do so. This law therefore gives us and them the exact same chance that we have everything that can be used for useful purposes, not to waste money in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13699	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13700	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the amendment I have submitted to Article 1 is in some way a natural continuation of the idea of amendments that have been submitted to the same members of my parliamentary group. He is somewhat similar to the previous amendment that was discussed and adopted, but it is conditional on me saying, more stringent, more restrictive than the amendment adopted, precisely for the reason that my colleague Vesenovic just cited. What if the political party acquires some immovable property from different sources, budgets and private sources? Then it's hard to regulate it. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 1 refers to the position of Article 5 of the 11th that reads – income from assets made by the political party from the sale of movable and immovable assets, by leased immovable property, owned by the political party and deposited with banks and other financial organisations in the Republic of Serbia. I have suggested that the words are completely deleted – the lease of immovable property owned by a political party because political parties are by their nature a non-profit organisation. The Law on Political Activities in Article 2 has defined the political party as an organisation of citizens, free and voluntary associations, established to achieve political goals, democratically formulating the political will of citizens and participating in the elections. So the purpose of political parties is to achieve political goals, not just to achieve profits. So the property owned by the political party can serve only to achieve its goal, i.e. to carry out the political party's activity. The amendment was, of course, rejected. The explanation is as follows: the amendment is not accepted, the total income from the political party's assets, in accordance with the law can only be used for political activities and other permitted activities of the political party, in accordance with the law, so that the legal means of making available, i.e. the management of immovable property in that function. This argument is like the rest of the argument on the whole bill, superficially, unspoken, unargued. There is no particular reason other than to quote the law, why no amendment is accepted. What's not good if this amendment is accepted or quoted by my colleague, Komic, who in principle said that the argument is sloppy and flawed, so I think that by who knows which time we get such smut and insufficient explanations. I have made an amendment because such a solution that allows the renting of property of parties is highly risky of corrupt activities. In law practice, I stress from law practice, not from any party's practice, I know that fictitious lease contracts are often made, and this is an open possibility for parties to make fictitious lease contracts, through which they would be financed by individuals or firms who would allegedly rent that property. In the explanation of the promoter, we have heard in such an epic way an explanation of why the parties need property.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13701	Mrs. Hasanovic, time is up. You don't even have time as a parliamentary group anymore. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13702	All parties, of course, need the assets to carry out the work for which they were established. We understand that very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13703	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13704	Since Mrs. Karavidic, and Mrs. Hasanovic, we often receive amendments, it seems to me that in good faith when the two are submitted. But to now erase the lending of immovable property owned by a political party, you know, but that's something that was foreseen by an earlier law. Nobody's changed that now. At the time, it was far more non-transparent, precisely because the party could receive only and exclusively from private sources of funds. Now we have limited these changes and can only apply this law if the party has some real estate for political purposes. Now watch out, there may be a situation that you have as a party a very nice space, some NGO, for example, wants to take that space of yours to hold a seminar. It is your turn to at least cover some expenses, because it still requires something, so I see no reason why it would not come out to meet this NGO, if it has a certain political tribune to hold such a gathering in the rooms of the party. I believe that no one will ask for God's means for such a thing, but I don't see any reason why we should accept this when we've limited the political parties just before, that only their properties can be used for political purposes, so that this kind of thing would seem unnecessary to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13705	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The People's MPs Gordana Komic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the amendment promoter, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13706	Thank you, Mr. Becic. This is one of the members, Article 2, and Article 4, is another such member, in which the tax revenues of the autonomous province are mentioned in a very mysterious way. The Social Democratic League MPs of Vojvodina have in both cases submitted almost the same amendments as Mrs. Komic and I and we have received completely different explanations, which is why the amendment is not accepted, so I would ask Mr. Babic to further explain. The proposed amendments to Article 2 suggest that the percentage is no longer accounted for from the expenditures of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province and local self-government units, but from tax revenues. Mrs. Comic and I, of course, have no problem with this being related to the tax revenues of the Republic of Serbia, given that the Republic of Serbia has tax revenues. However, when it comes to the tax revenues of the autonomous province, I only ask Mr Babic to explain to me what the tax revenues of the autonomous province would be. It is one debate in the country already seems to me 20 and a few years as to whether the province should have tax revenues, which should be the amount of these incomes, and not in the explanation given to Mrs. Komic and me, but in the explanation given to the Social Democrats League MPs, Mr. Babic found something a little strange, and I was talking about how laws should be read as it says, so I would only ask him to explain to me that these tax revenues do not apply to what the tax revenues actually are, and these are incomes that are collected in the territory of the autonomous province, but this applies to all tax revenues that flow into the budget of the autonomous province. Have Mr. Babic say where it says it in law. I think it's very clear what tax revenues are. It is very clear that the province does not have any tax revenue, but it is possible that Mr Babic believed in the Serbian Progressive Party marketing, so he believed from numerous announcements that the Law on the financing of the autonomous province was passed, so that he thought Vojvodina had some tax revenues. If that's the case, Mr. Babic, they're gone, and if you're still claiming what I wrote in the explanation, tell me where the law says it refers to those revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13707	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Please just tell me if you want a replica or a time of authorized representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13708	An authorised representative, Mr. Chairman. I will worry about Mrs Jerkov's fascination with Zoran Babic, as she mentions Zoran Babic more often than the Serbian Progressive Party. But good. I'm gonna put up with that fascination, so it's not a problem. (Employment of Alexander Jerkov, from the place: Now he speaks directly to me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13709	Miss Jerkov, please. You mentioned in your speech seven, eight times words - Zoran Babic. I guess that's why Mr. Babic said it. That's why I asked if he wanted a replica because for so many names and names, he had the possibility of a replica. Thank you, Miss Jerkov. (Employment of Aleksandra Jerkov, from the post: As an authorised representative. That I'm fascinated by Zoran Babic? I'm not saying that, you have to ask him, but not in this room. Here you go, Mr. Granny, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13710	Can I continue, if you've finished your chat? I am not a promoter, I am one of the 136 People's MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party who are the legislators of this bill, and I have only been honored by the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group to be an authorised representative. So it's one thing when you say "authorised representative" or "proposal group," and the other is when you say Zoran Babic, Zoran Babic, then I can accept it. I really like college, I don't mean anything by it, and in terms of fascination or at least give me a dictionary that I can't use and all that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13711	Please, Mr. Granny, you're wasting your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13712	But what I don't know by which way we're calling for communication and dialogue, but then there's no other side to listen to. I will read the explanation - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that, in accordance with the Law on the Budgetary System, Article 5, at the level of the Republic of Serbia to determine the amount of funds defined for the financing of the regular work of political entities, whose candidates have been elected MPs in the National Assembly, are already using expenditures financed from tax revenues, since the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities only confirms the already existing situation. This is what we talked about that this government, or government in which the Serbian Progressive Party participated, has changed the anomalies and irregularities in 2012. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed Member of the Law is enforceable both for the AP Vojvodina and for the units of local self-government for reasons that tax revenues should not be brought into contact with the competence of collecting them and if they do not have the competence to collect them, but in relation to their territoriality. In accordance with the Law on the Budget System, members of 24 and 25, for the financing of the competences of the AP, the AP budget is part of the company's profit tax achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the law. Part of income tax on income of citizens, taxes on earnings achieved in the territory of the AP in accordance with the law, as well as other taxes or part of taxes in accordance with specific law, while for the financing of the competence of local self-government units, the budgets of local self-government units belong to taxes in the work of the established law, income tax on citizens, property tax, inheritance tax, etc., etc. All of these are basics, all of these are taxes belonging to the AP Vojvodina. These are taxes, part of which belongs to units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, and part of it in the amount of 0.105% of the funding of political activities. The answer is very clear,...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13713	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13714	... Who wants to read. I can also try to make sure that a colleague from the Ministry of Finance delivers as much as it is nominally, but I don't think it hurts much more here the basis from which it is taken to finance political activities, that much more hurts the 30% reduction that we want to keep all citizens, including the citizens of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13715	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13716	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find this amendment unacceptable. I propose that the amendment be rejected, so the amendment to Article 2. The draft law on the financing of political activities, and I think the proposed solution is a more appropriate and appropriate moment in which we are. So given the economic situation that we are in, given the financial crisis, the fact that it is difficult to live and the fact that funds may be more necessary on the other side. With this solution as proposed, as the legislator predicted, there will be more money left for those other things. So more money to heal public finances, more money to schools, hospitals, kindergartens and other social benefits, and that's not small money. So, it is expected to save about 3.5m euros. It is a serious number, and I therefore propose that this amendment be rejected, i.e. support the original text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13717	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13718	The Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I am in favour of not accepting this amendment, if we didn't know who the Proposer of this amendment was, we'd think this was about one single random gaffe. However, we know that this proposal comes from the DS, we all know, and the citizens of Serbia that this proposal practically means nothing, as well as their proposal for a law that has not been passed here fortunately on the financing of political parties meant anything, as well as the long-standing period of their exercise of power. They practically didn't want to change anything. Serbia's advanced party advocates reforms, advocates radical changes. That's what we promised in the campaign, and that's what we're doing. Just a reduction in the secession for political parties, in itself, is not a reform. The reduction of wages and pensions is also not in itself a reform, but where the difference is essential, the fundamental difference. We say: We shall spend as much as we have. Now, that's the important difference between us and them. We show it first of all on our own personal case. With this bill, the most resources in total will go to SNS. We're not masochists here, so we give up, we don't need funds, we don't need money, we don't need it as a party, we don't need it personally. Every single one of us here has been cut off, I don't know, about 10,000. We're not happy to give it up, but we know there's no other way out, we know we can only spend as much as we have. The other day someone here said a senseless finding says -- this reduction of Serbian citizens will get, as if to save a single sugar cube a day. I can say by reducing my salary from 10,000 he gets and much less, so can every single individual, so can every group, health care workers, so he doesn't just have to go down on us, the enlighteners say he doesn't just have to cut us down. Each group can say so, but you know how the proverb says “a grain per grain of cake. ” So we have to take everything so we can just survive, so we can spend as much as we have. Reform laws mean increasing the revenue side and we are working on it, already some laws have been passed and will be adopted in the future. Now that the opposition has no arguments, it charges the government of Serbia, at the expense of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. It looks about like this, we have night, it's not daytime, it's not 24 hours a day. Who's to blame? Well, Alexander Wolfie. We have winter in Serbia, it's not a nonstop summer. Who's to blame? Well, Alexander Wolfie. Sometimes in Serbia it rains, it's not a nonstop sun. Who's to blame? Well, Alexander Wolfie. The charges they make to the Serbian government and President Aleksandar Vukic seem so similar. However, it is not easy for DS lawmakers, they believe they are neither entirely sure nor whether there is DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13719	Please just go back to the amendment a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13720	They're not sure if they're here or who they represent here. They were found here by statistical error, they crossed the censorship by 1%, and that's about a statistical error. It's not easy, they have to be people of a special strain who do something, and they know it can't bring results. You have a political party, you want to come to power, and how after everything they've done to power, even Dragan Gilas has realized that he's bad for sitting here and giving up on it, and every day there are fewer. Please, my party's MPs, to be a little more careful with the representatives of the opposition, first and foremost with DS representatives, to hold them as a bit of palm water. Why? Who do they need? Serbian citizens don't need it. They've tried them and they know who the evil couple are. Imagine that in the world they say Serbia has no opposition. They are our ideal opposition, while DS is the main party of the opposition, we will always be in power. That's why we need to take care of them and be very careful. I'm not happy and I don't think it's a good thing there's no competition...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13721	Mr. Alexic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13722	One more sentence and I'm done. I'm not happy that there's no competition in political life, I think it'd be better if there were, but we didn't ruin DS, she ruined herself with her own actions. There are fewer of them as you can see. So I ask the last MP here to come out of the DS to turn off the light, but before they return and settle their accounts and repay the debts they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13723	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13724	Thank you, Mr. Becic. In what ways Mr. Babic is comfortable with what he thinks I'm fascinated by him and whether he likes me to say his name, I won't comment, and I don't think you should have let him comment on my presentation in such a way, but it's not the first time that representatives of the former SRS, and today the SNS are sexually insulting me in this Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13725	Please, Miss Jerkov, you didn't get the right to a replica. Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13726	I will, but I just have to say that Mr. Babic insulted me without you reacting. However, I have still not heard where the proposed law states that the tax revenues of the AP refer to what Mr Babic in an explanation that I do not accept, Mr Babic as a representative of the promoter that you do not think otherwise, in this opinion we have received an opinion signed only by your signature, which is why I am speaking, and I hope you are aware that I would not mention you in a different context, in which the representative claims to be believed to be writing. Therefore, in this explanation for the rejection of the League's amendments, which is very similar to this amendment, it says - that this does not refer to tax revenues collected in the province rather than to those tax revenues belonging to the AP Vojvodina budget. Where does the law say that? I'm asking you to just answer that, because I'm talking about other things in this room, and I have no intention of discussing it outside.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13727	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word has a representative of the proposing MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13728	Mr. Chairman, I have great respect for my colleague Jerkov. I live in a family of four ladies, 10 to 80 years old, and if I haven't crossed one line, I haven't crossed the line of respect, or disrespect for women. Because I live in such an environment and that's how I would treat my colleague, according to my fellow citizen, any female I would never treat. Fascination exists and fascination isn't an ugly word, at least I haven't figured it out before or it got ugly just because I say it or maybe because of the tone. You can also be fascinated by something that isn't human, with something that does. Fascinated and well filmed, fascinated by a good book, fascinated by many other things, skillful on sports grounds. I don't know where my esteemed colleague Jerkov saw that this kind of fascination she needed more, and my desire was to relax the atmosphere and introduce her into some normal flows without tension, why the only fascination could be and to go towards male-female relations. I'm sorry if Mrs. Jerkov thus understood my presentation and I'm prepared to make an apology to all those who are in this way, and I believe that, besides Mrs. Jerkov, that way my exposure was not understood and no one looked at it that way. As for reasons, I only ask that my colleague reads the reasons very carefully, to read all the laws relating to tax matter, and what I cannot accept as a liability of the SNS, many times asked a question in the past and from the amendments themselves, but somehow when it comes to another side, then forget the question, but also the answer to that question, and that is the question: “Where are our money? “ SNS is not responsible for this because these relationships in recent years and recent decades have been undefined. The SNS is not responsible for creating an atmosphere in our society and fighting New Sad and Belgrade. You could see if you wanted to look at the political situation with your eyes open. Yes, we disagree when someone holds power anywhere, with six and 16%, and with six even less, but we'll respect it. And when the investments for which the Republic Government was responsible came, we respected the province's authority no matter how small the percentage was maintained and how it was maintained. But the answer to the question: “Where is our money? “ has been set up long ago, and you have not given the answer. It is clearly said in a response to what defines and what tax revenues are, what belongs to the AP Vojvodina and where the reduced coefficient of 0.105% will go to finance political activities. But don't howl in the form of a rematch between Belgrade and Novi Sad, the government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't want to fight with anyone, not in this country, not in the environment, or at least say openly that you are bothered by this reduction of rates and that you are bothered by the savings of three and a half million that are actually behind each of these criticisms. This coincides with the spirit of this law, it conflicts with the spirit of reform policy and savings policy, because the state of public finances is such that it is necessary to implement policies and reforms and savings.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13729	It's worth your time as head of Parliament. Only if I can, Mr. Babić, I know you very well as my personal friend, not as a party boss, as Mr. Veseinović said, because I only have one party chief, and that is Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, and I know you very well, as well as your relationship with the ladies, so I have not responded to your speech where I would understand it as an insult to a lady. I know you would never do that. The People's MPs Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Snezana Malovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13730	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope I don't get my epithetized "insolent" again. The objective of our amendment is to replace the percentage by 0.105% by 0.13%. I would ask my colleagues to listen to our brief explanation. So, by accepting the proposal's explanation that the amendments in Article 2 are going towards reducing the budget procedures, and that the reasons for such changes are contained in the need to contribute to the stability of public finances in this segment, primarily through the system of sustainable financing of deficits and debt in general, and thus macroeconomic stability, we believe that the solution is proposed to the amendment in a more consistent manner, as it achieves the purpose that the proposal states, but at the same time ensuring that the constitutional and legal functions of political parties are achieved. Namely, the reduction the applicant offers for the result has a reduction of about 35%. This percentage of the reduction certainly does not affect the ruling party, as it receives over 50% of the total, more than 400,000 euros per month, five million euros per year, while individual opposition parties receive at an annual level, slightly more than what the monthly SNS amount is. The proposal is largely affected by opposition parties and thus significantly endangers the multi-party system in Serbia, as a basic democratic society. I hope this is not the purpose of the ruling party, so I again ask the Proposer to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13731	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13732	I would like to thank the amendment to the amendment, but this goes against the spirit of the bill itself, the very basis of the bill itself. What I cannot accept, and when it is spoken, the SNS has granted itself more in a month than we receive in a year. Because it's just that, colleague, it's not true. The amount is determined on the basis of the number of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, based on the number of committees, and the number is determined by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Do not blame your SNS for the support you have and the number of MPs you have in your benches. So what's SNS' responsibility? Because we respect the law? The substance of this law is that the total amount of around 11m euros per year to finance political activities is to be reduced by 30%. You and now, as in 2011, when we also criticised you for increasing that amount from 577 million to a billion and 270 million. So, you raised twice in 2011, when you were the biggest. You've raised yourself twice. There was no room for SNS at that time and you didn't care about the oppression of the young, and you didn't ask – colleagues, how will you? That's not what you asked. But you could change the law and double the funds for yourself when you were the biggest and on the cost side of the budget, from every loan. Instead of making the way, instead of doing kindergarten, 0.15% went to fund political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13733	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13734	As you've increased then, you're increasing now. It is a legitimate right and I am grateful for such an amendment, because that shows the essence and difference between us. You're the ones who, when you were the biggest, you increased yourself and added twice, and we're down 30% when we're the biggest. When you're the biggest you take for political activity and out of credit. The Serbian Progressive Party behaves responsibly and says -- from tax revenues. There is the essence and the essence of the difference, and even now that over all that, worrying about democracy, twisting into a cellophane, a very fine cellophane, that the political party is making money and that it survives on money. No, it doesn't. There were political parties that spent a lot of money this year in March, so they didn't enter the Parliament Club. They stayed under the census. Survival or not survival on the political scene determines politics. It determines energy. Most of all, it determines the trust you have with the citizens. It has nothing to do with billboards or posters. It has nothing to do with the space where you educate your young colleagues. Let's go home. To keep the party busy. It has nothing to do with that. Just stick to the same principles because you had to take care of the kid in 2011. You didn't care. You turned your head on the other side because in 2011 and 2012, until the SNS election, zero dinars. I didn't hear your voice. I didn't hear you were worried. I didn't hear you say -- well, you know that's bad for democracy, bad for pluralism. It was important to increase from 577 million to a billion and 270 million. You weren't worried then. But you left one principle behind and I respect it when someone is principled and goes all the way. As you've increased then, so now and with this amendment you want to increase again. But you're welcome. There's nowhere else to go. Public finances, I don't know which dictionary anymore, and which dictionary to use to describe to you the state of public finances. What can I say to the fact that in 2012, when the change of government in Serbia was made that the liquidity of the budget was 15 days, but it was for the parties. The parties were settled, and the liquidity budget for 15 days. In 2012, there was money in Serbia for half a pension, half a pension, my dear pensioners, for half a salary to doctors, for half a salary to teachers. Nobody cared about doctors or teachers at the time. Now, of course, we're away from that bankruptcy and that sunflower, but if we continue with that policy, for political parties, kidnapping, taking, increasing, in debt, don't think about the day coming and the bill coming to get someone to pay for it. Don't spare, save someone else, just don't let the political parties save. It would have been as Mr. Vukic said in 2017. We don't want any part of it. If 39% of pensioners agreed to participate with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to participate with the public sector, to participate with all those measures and people who want to save, they accepted to save from their pensions, which is difficult to accept and to give an example, not 10%, not 12, 13, as far as you've predicted here, 30%. Three and a half million. You know, there's one saying, it's used by an old woman who said she saves when you have, when you have nothing to spare for nothing, you want to save. We just have to save now. We have to show an example. That's why I used a word I'm not going to say again. And it's sometimes said to the child that it's rude, when he goes beyond. How else to describe and what to say and what to say, what you wrote and signed and amended to again, as in 2011 you want more for political parties. More for political parties, means less for pensioners. So less for hospitals, less for schools, less for kindergartens, less for roads, less for opening new jobs, more for political parties. I think that's bad. That is why I am on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, which advocates fundamental changes, which implements these reforms, which implements savings, to show how it can be done. Well, he can. Believe me, it's not easy, but it can. From 2008 to 2012, the SNS budget had no single dinar, but we grew up, but we tampered with Serbia, but we talked to people. With people who were dissatisfied with your politics, dragging their hands into the budget. Unsatisfactory by your policy 0.15% of the credit for political parties and we've spent both for fuel and for gasoline and for the rooms of party and party activities because we wanted to change. The changes that occurred in 2012, that a regime that is bad change, as we are now investing energy, as we are now investing knowledge of change in both public finances and in our policy because we want to live in a decent state, in a country where the political party will share the fate of its citizens, in which the political party will not be a sacred cow that will be allowed to do anything, and even to increase for itself a single law double in 2011. Then we suggested to you: turn it down, don't do it, it's bad what you do. It's a birthright. This is the difference in politics. I'm grateful for the amendment you've made, thank you for signing it. Grateful that there are no insinuations, so some evil Babic thinks differently, so he insinuates us. You signed that you wanted more for you, more for political parties, as you did in 2011 when you passed a law on double the budget. We do not want it, and therefore this assembly majority, the SNS, together with the coalition friends with whom we share neither contingents nor quotas, but the same thinking of a decent and normal Serbia, this amendment will not be accepted, but three and a half million euros a year will remain for all those things that make life in Serbia, not for billboards, not for posters, not for someone to have exclusive rights. Why does he have any exclusive right? Why didn't you worry about political parties that weren't in parliament? They have nothing from public funds, they have nothing from public finances. Here I could understand your desire to develop pluralism by saying -- you didn't predict anything for people who stayed below the censors, not because they stayed below the censors, because they conducted such a policy, but because of the people who voted for them. Because of Serbian citizens who voted, perhaps for the LDP for the DSS and for some other parties that are fierce opponents of the SNS. Why would you think of them? No, just about yourself. That kind of political narcissism is bad when you're big and when you're small. That narcissism closes your eyes, and then you trip and fall, but don't open your eyes but crawl away. What the law stipulates and what the SNS predicted and suggested fundamental changes. What interests every citizen of Serbia, what is interested in those people who are not members of any party and who do not care how the party works and what will work because these people do not want these parties to function better than schooling, more hospitals, more maternity homes, more roads, and you say with such a message and such an amendment – yes, we want more billboards. We want more posters. We want more for us, not for those who sent you here. In this way, the SNS shows how much we respect RS citizens and we will continue to do so, and I thank you once again for the amendment showing a fundamental difference in SNS policy towards those who will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13735	Thank you. Just to let you know, Mr. Babico, you've just wasted your time as head of Parliament, so you don't have any more time. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13736	I'm using the time of the head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13737	You don't have another time, that's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13738	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Babic spoke of political narcissism. Basically, I have nothing to take away and add to those words, but certainly Mr. Babic should look into his political mirror the way he, in a top-notch demagogue manner, represents to the citizens of Serbia a policy that is allegedly in their interest and is in the interests of the Serbian Progressive Party alone. Mr. Babic, I am now speaking to you as an authorised representative, so I will not be resented by the chairman, but you voted the laws you made possible a week ago...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13739	Mr. Veselinović, just so I know, how are you exhibiting now? Are you talking about the amendment or are you replicating it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13740	I'm talking about the amendment. You have passed laws that allow for the reduction of salaries to professors, doctors, nurses, police officers and other people who depend on our lives and the future of Serbia. By the same laws, you've reduced the pensions of our citizens who are now...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13741	Mr. Veselinović, I ask you not to talk about other laws, but to talk about an amendment that is on the agenda. We're not talking about pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13742	You want to tell us now that by not accepting this amendment, you are working in the interests of Serbian citizens. Mr. Babic, you are working in the interest of suffocating the political option that is an opposition to the ruling set - the shutting down of the opposition. You have already done so with the media, and the aim of this law, exclusively and very clearly, is to disable the opposition, which has not even 50 MPs, that it can function normally. You, Mr Babić, in this political campaign behind us, for previous elections, have set up stands in the centre of all major cities in Serbia, three-room stands and built them in a few days. You could have been expected to do so when they were flooded in Obrenovac. These stands had roofs and walls and windows and three rooms and had SNS flags on them. Mr Babiću, this amendment went only to make the opposition work normally, to pay for electricity, heating, to maintain basic functions, as it is said - cold work. So it has to be for basic assets. You made it impossible, Mr. Granny. Why didn't you join this law as a law that reduced pensions? For example, you've reduced your pensions by 22% to between 24 and 40 grand... 6
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13743	Mr. Veselinović!
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13744	... And for pensioners who have over 40,000, you've reduced 25%. Which is why you are not a Serbian Progressive Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13745	Mr. Veselinović, I ask you to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13746	... Reduced, since it has the most income...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13747	Mr. Veselinović, I ask you to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13748	I'm talking about the amendment right now. Why didn't the SNS, which has the most resources, reduce those assets in proportion to the amount of those funds? And what are you going to do with these five million euros a year? You have also predicted this – you will buy properties that you will possibly rent under this law, while opposition parties will not be able to pay for either electricity or water. That, Mr. Granny, is the sole and exclusive purpose of this law. You're saying you've been running around Serbia from 2008 to 2012 because you didn't have one single dinar for the campaign. A highly esteemed member of your party, and I appreciate him and I think he spoke truthfully, said at the end of 2012, about your party, now and his party: "It is a party that has not received a single dinar from the Republic of Serbia's budget since 2008. It is absolute proof that the Serbian Progressive Party is a party that is financed absolutely in an illegal manner. “ There is a list. So you can't explain to me, Mr. Babice, in any sound sense that someone for four years has functioned by not getting a single dollar. You say you were driving cars. You're not all padded up on foot. Who paid for that gas? Who paid for the leased premises? Who paid all those heavy expenses? (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: Call who paid for it.) There was money in there. (SNS emissaries raise their hands. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Here's who paid. I beg you, Mr. Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13749	Mr. Veselinović, you are just denying your colleague, the head of your parliamentary group. He was about to read a list of those members who gave funds to the SNS, and now you say, "Where did they come from?" I don't understand you. I take that as a replica to your party colleague, Mr. Djurisic, because you speak contrary to what he said.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13750	On the contrary. Mr. Djurisic said very clearly and sarcastically, it could have been clear to anyone, that someone receiving social assistance could not finance the SNS and that is to anyone who thinks in one natural way very clearly. How could someone, if they were to receive social aid, be financed by the SNS? So it was done in another way, right, that someone else financed the SNS. We can enter a sphere in which Serbia will have no opposition and in which the opposition's voice will not be heard and in which the opposition's representative will not be on state media, nor on those who have a national frequency and where opposition parties will not have their seats, but will gather in meadows. We can also enter that opposition parties will not be in parliament, but will gather in front of parliament. We can enter the time of Serbia's Milos Obrenovic, but I don't know if it's good for Serbia and whether you want European Serbia with this or whether you want some Serbia we've already seen. So, as a consequence of this law and the consequences of abolishing the opposition's right to operate out of means that are transparent, it's nothing but asphyxiation of the opposition, it's nothing more than what's already been done with the Serbian media. In this sense, it is very clear to all those who are watching, who will understand the intention of your proposal, that it will not do any good to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13751	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13752	Madam President, I will ask you to use the time of the parliamentary group. I'm ashamed that in the state of Serbia... (Janko Veselinović, from town: I should. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13753	Ambassador Veselinovic, don't throw it away. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: What were they doing while I was talking? I don't know, but don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13754	I am ashamed that in the state of Serbia, which I love infinitely, I love more than my life, more than my children's lives, there are people who, for the sake of politics, are ready for some return to the old ones to express so much untrueness, so much hate, so many things that, I don't know how to define and what word to use without polluting this high house, as it has been polluted for the past eight minutes. The media. I was present before representatives of international institutions who were here in the House of the National Assembly but also outside the borders of our country. Is it worth it and is it such a significant political point and mercy on the head if you're mocking your country? Is it worth going back to some old trails that Serbia will never walk again by stopping some processes in Serbia by tripping? Is it worth it to someone who is a professor, a doctor, who comes out and tells such a lie and doesn't turn around and asks a colleague of Ninoslav, a respected colleague, who, with me last night on a good show, on television with a regional frequency, had a chance and a place to apologize and to direct and critical attitude, but also some other attitudes? Do you think the citizens of Nis didn't see it last night and don't look at you now that you say there's no freedom in the media? Last night in Shappac, truth be told, that's when the former regime's representative escaped, never even entered the studio, and was invited neatly. Is that what happens in non-free media? Was your head of Parliament two nights ago with my esteemed colleague Martinovic on TV with a national frequency? Where is it that there's this stuff that's suffocating and suffocating in the media that's so much space and space? Instead of being ashamed of you for telling such lies, I'm ashamed to share the same room, with so much untrue and with so much hatred when you perform. With so much disgust, you look at 136 people, who raised their hands and said, yes, we funded, we singled out because we wanted a different, decent and normal Serbia. It wasn't a round of applause for you, it was a round of applause for these people, but also for all those people who were out of this room, who worked hard, who had worked day and night for changes in Serbia. With the disgust of these people, you perform. That's why I'm ashamed. Unfortunately, I'm ashamed to share the same room. Besides, those insinuations -- now I'm going to show you empty paper, you know what he said, he said what's true, and that's that SNS isn't funded by public finances. It's not from public finances. Who ruled between 2008 and 2012? You, Mr. Veselinović, and similar to you, who now want to put your hand in the citizens' pocket. If we had done something against the law, we would have been hanged on the Terrace, if we had done something against the will of the Serbian citizens, if we had done something wrong. What did the reformed judiciary do? Why don't you ask Homen, why don't you ask Malovica, why they didn't arrest us if we were doing something against the law? Now you've remembered to say something. Then you're bothered with the charges I'm reading here against those who funded you. Now you're bothered by the mention of the Vojvodina Development Bank. I will mention the Vojvodina Development Bank not only until the charges are filed, but until they become a strong conviction, a verdict. Let's do it one more time, like in school, and I took part in my children's education, and I know that sometimes you have to mention and repeat it many times. In this way and this law, the respected citizens of Serbia, because I believe that the MPs are there because of many times, and seen also in the bill, 11m euros are allocated to finance political activities annually in Serbia. We believe that SNS thinks it is too much, that this amount can be used for much smarter things, for things that make life in Serbia. The amount is reduced by 3.5m euros by this bill, proposed by the SNS. That amount of reduction is linearly reduced by all political parties, equally, although again someone, I cannot say in the heat of political struggle, but in the heat of political hatred, wanted to present otherwise. The funds are divided by political parties on the basis of the number of MPs, and the number of MPs is determined in the elections, is determined by the electoral will of the Serbian citizens. All this hatred that the previous speaker has sent, thinking it will accomplish something, is actually hatred for the citizens of Serbia, hatred for making a good choice, hatred for wanting reforms, hatred for supporting Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Well, they were smart and they'd be smart. It wasn't me, Mr. Veselinovic, who brought you down to the minor movement. That's what the citizens of Serbia said. For free, you're now raising some percentages of the declines, which don't exist anywhere, and the only percentage of the reduction exists is one. That we have severe savings in the public sector, that we have savings, even with these 3.5m euros, we have saved that 61% of pensioners have no pension cuts. Why are pension cuts down, why are pension cuts? Why are public sector wages reduced? Because of the substance the past ate, because of the past in which you ate the future, because you gave yourself twice as much by law. In 2011, instead of 577 million to finance political activities, you are coldly one law, not caring about how people in Serbia live, not caring that you left 400,000 people out of work, not caring that you raised unemployment to over 26% from 13.6%. You didn't care. Narcissisticly, prodigally, all and all the authorities, who care about the people, raised to billions and 270 million, from five to 11m euros. That's why you lost power. We warned you. And then Tomislav Nikolic, as head of the parliamentary group, warned you and said – don't do it, it's bad, it's bad for Serbian citizens first, it's bad for the budget, it's bad for you. You've been narcissistically closing both your ears and your eyes. Now the SNS, who warned you about it, not because of you, but because of the citizens of Serbia, is now our fault for you and for having you as many as there are and because you have the kind of support you have. Regardless of all the bad politics in the past and no matter what I don't understand, it's a three-room stand, but I do know that in the former Kidrich Street, after an earthquake in the King, they're still not built either houses or buildings and they're not safe yet. Then, and with these 11m euros that you've shared yourself, you haven't allowed yourself to go to the King and say, "people, come on, we're going to raise a house." No, I don't. Blinded by narcissism, power, Andric's crown, advisers who still call us today how much it costs a kilo of living parliamentary scales, what did they call us then, both Krstic and Saper and others who, they did not advise, made politics? You're talking about Obrenovac, all that happened and Obrenovac, but also one-third of Serbia's territory, is an evil that no one wanted. I'm sure, no one, but it happened. And now instead of being happy and smiling, which I also see on the faces of these people, on the faces of normal people, decent people, when the school is finished, when the assistance is shared transparently, and not just below the grains as in the King, so one foundation is invoiced three times, when all the funds are collected in one place and from that one place they are deployed, and when that office is handled by someone outside of politics, outside of the party system. That's not good either. When we're depoliticizing, it's no good that you're depoliticizing. If she were a political figure, it would be why she's a political figure. The attitude changes from morning to evening, but only one attitude does not change – for you, more for political parties. As in 2011, from five to 11m euros, so now from 0.105% to 0.13%. You're ready to step on everything and you're ready to insult everyone. You're willing not to tell the truth as much as it shrinks, what's going on, and what's going on, and only to defend the indefensible, that you want more for you. You're hiding under a herald of democracy. Is the party making money? Maybe Miskovic would be the most powerful, the most money he's got, or maybe he's been doing his views through your policies and your parties, so he didn't need a new one. The party is made up of politics, ideas, people, people of good energy, people who are willing to go on a door-to-door campaign and not ask how much it costs, talk to people. Now we're making booths and now we're going out amongst people. We're not afraid of anything, but we're glad to be among these people, and you're in the way of SNS stands, and it bothers you that we're alive. How can you not be ashamed? What three-room stands? We need neither raincoats, nor booths, but only good will, clean face, clean hands and desires and work on normal, reformed, decent, orderly, European Serbia, but this Serbia cannot exist on parties that are strong and rich, and citizens are increasingly poor. In 2011, you left 400,000 people out of work, but you allocated yourself five million euros more. That was good? That was a good policy? That was a policy that was supposed to be implemented? No, it's wrong. Now that the SNS is the largest, whether we will be in the future or not, it will be determined by Serbian citizens with free, democratic, electoral will. This law is made for then, and for now. Don't play ad hoc. Now that we're the biggest, when we're driven by your politics and your logic, we're assigning ourselves more, we're reducing ourselves by 30%. My dear Mr. Vesenovic, we will reduce 30% of you, whether you like it or not, so tap out, so if you have what, if you have energy, if you have a policy, if you have something to qualify for to go to Serbian citizens, come out and do not need money, but you need clean face, clean hands and policies that you are implementing, which SNS has because it has Alexander Vukic and has a reform policy, and we will always be in front of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13755	I'll delete the list to give you my word. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13756	The chairman, Mr. Babic, said a syntagma that we are covering ourselves with the yorgan of democracy. We don't cover ourselves, Mr. Babic, with the yorgan of democracy, as you covered the papers when you voted and gave the quorum to our coalition from 2008 to 2012. It may not have been seen through the newspapers, but today you are full of demagogy, that you are full of narcissism, and you insult Serbian citizens because Serbian citizens clearly know what is behind your words. There's nothing you can hide from the fact that the salaries in Serbia are less, that the living are worse, that the prices are higher, that the pensioners are getting poorer and you say, Mr Babić, 60% of the pensioners won't have a pension reduction, 60% of the pensioners receive a salary less than 24,000, half 60% of the pensioners receive a salary, a pension that you spent last night in Nis for one dinner and a drink. On the other hand, Mr. Babico, I don't want to answer your insults, because it's very clear that your rhetoric only wants to conceal...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13757	Time. I apologize for having to call the Rules of Procedure sometime. I ask the MPs to respect that I will delete the list again. He can't because MPs from the SNS Group won't listen to me, as chairman. Please, when I delete the list, do not repeat the application, but allow the MP who reported after the injury of the Rules of Procedure to speak. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13758	Article 107. Are we free country? This isn't a rhetorical question. Are my freedoms at risk? Is it anyone who calls for freedom of the media who threatens the elemental human dignity and freedom? Are the representatives of the former regime following me? Do they know what I ate, what I drank, who I was dating? I'm proud to have friends in every city and I won't justify myself. No account was signed last night and went to the expense of any local self-government. Everything and every bill that the MP of the SNS makes in the Assembly and anywhere is paid out of his own resources. I'm proud of it. It's a change, but if you follow my movements, that you limit my movements, that you have those draws as in the old days, the falcon called the eagle, the Babic sat in there and that pub, shame on you, so shame on you. Shame on you! All I'm doing is transparent, everything the SNS is doing is transparent, and what makes pensioners have a weave of small pensions is because you, Mr. Vesenović, have eaten, taken, taken, drank, eaten through the increase, just for yourself an increase, here's where and why it is so.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13759	Thank you. Replication time's up. Thank you. (Alexander Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. I can't give you my word when my colleagues won't give you my word. I keep asking MPs from the parliamentary group not to answer, so that colleagues can get the word, they don't want to listen. I'm just going to use Article 212 because I can't run a session any other way. Ask five of your MPs to give up so that you can enter the system, because I can see that the Messenger is angry with me for not speaking. I'll clean it up, pick up five quick. Come in, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13760	Thank you, Madam President. Article 106 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says the speaker can only talk about the item on the agenda. Mr. Vesenovic spoke on two occasions about how SNS MPs are demagogues and how our policy is demagogy. That would have been a problem, if Mr. Veselinovic hadn't come from the party...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13761	Ambassador, you've called for a member. Do what others do.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13762	I know, but on two occasions, he insulted an SNS MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13763	I know, we went to the Rules of Procedure and it's responsible. (Alexander Markovic, from the scene: But you should have warned him.) ) The chairman will use the measures or not. Don't suggest. On the left, they yell at me what to do, I don't want to do it. I want us to go back to the agenda and discuss very important matter, which is the Law on the financing of political parties and the reduction of certain amounts for individual political parties. Those who disagree with the law will not vote, so they will show their will, and whoever agrees will show how positive it is for Serbian citizens. It is simple, but it is your right to still vote in favour of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I have done nothing, because I am not an active participant in the discussion, so I did not violate the fact that MPs do not want to talk about the specific things that you think they should talk about – the point of the agenda. I thank you all. In order not to apply the measures, I think we're going to go to the next amendment, because everyone's asking me to apply the measures, and I don't want it, and my measures are going to be that I want to establish further work and move on to the amendment to Article 2, again but other applicants. I thank you for your understanding. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an applicant, Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13765	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, this bill reduces funds to majority parties, but when it comes to national minority parties, this law almost abolishes the minimum funds needed to make these parties function, so we can say freely, even if these parties survive. This is about parties that have only one, two, three mandates, so it was in this one, in the previous one, and it will probably be in the next times, so that their transfers are measured by thousands of percentages in the budget, so that their reduction doesn't actually contribute to the budget, and that's why we proposed by our amendment that minority parliamentary parties reduce the percentage of the reduction. It is indisputable that all parties are ready to carry out the savings burden, as is popular today. However, the survival of minority parliamentary parties is at stake here. You know, it's not the same thing when you subtract the same percentage from, say, 150 million or one or two million to be operationally held by a party on the ground. Who at least understands the organisation of parties on the ground knows that even these funds so far, when it comes to national minority parties, were not enough even to cover basic technical needs, let alone some imagination about buying a business space. On the other hand, if this parliament, on behalf of the state, shows understanding of minority parties, can get much more valuable points in the field of improving minority policy. I think you can show an understanding here. There's room for it, but I don't know if there's a proposal. Certainly, we cannot influence your decision by the number of votes, so we would like to try to draw attention to our discussion that these solutions by the minority party are actually in an uninvited position. I would agree with the promoter that politics and the idea are what keeps the party alive. As a 24-year-old party, we can say that with full rights. We have survived and survived much harder and greater temptations, and this is just another obstacle to the political path of minority parties. We invite you today to remove this obstacle together by adopting the amendments we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13766	According to the amendment, MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13767	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment concerns Article 2 and Article 16. The law on funding political activities in Serbia. If you look at this law, then you can understand that it's a purely fiscal decision. This is fiscal law and we have learned in the state of Serbia that fiscal laws and decisions concerning the fiscal order of the Serbian state, the minister suggests. This is an exception, 128 SNS MPs made a commitment and decided to change the part as far as the fiscal order of the Serbian state changes. There is no one in this room who does not think the economic situation in the Republic of Serbia's budget is difficult, but it is also likely that the general consensus that the economic situation in the whole society is extremely difficult. We can argue, but the essence of the huge problems is the bad fiscal decisions and the bad monetary decisions that this Assembly has made. Today, when we enter the process of fiscal consolidation, saving, change, reform, in fact we say only one thing and they all come down to one thing – to respect the basic rules of balance and budgeting and to say that the state of Serbia can only spend as much as it has and other social groups that have learned to function on public incomes, which is only one small part of the population of the Republic of Serbia. Today in the Assembly, we can see an almost identical reaction when you take part of the income that comes from public income, one social class, one social group. The financing of political parties certainly implies an asset of 0.15% of the Republic of Serbia's budget and that's not a large amount, we can agree on that, but if you look at how much it is in real terms, then that certainly means it. Article 2 SNS, SNS MPs say they want to cut expenditures related to funding of political parties and 0.15 we go and propose to this member, Article 2. reduction to 0.105. It's a 50% reduction, but that's not the essence of a crucial reduction. We say that we want to change the basis and move from the expenditure side of the budget which was the basis for the allocation of financial resources to the revenue side of the budget. Not the entire revenue side of the budget, but we move on to total tax revenues. What does that really mean? Tax revenues according to the budget rebalance, which we adopted the other day, in fact according to the 2014 budget, are 759 billion. The expenditure according to the same budget is 1.121 billion. The difference is another 33%. If you look at how much that savings is in equal financial resources, it's over 7.5m euros. I'm also listening and listening to the principle debate today that different figures have been used, and I could kind of agree with Mr. Nenado Chanko, who said that the savings that will come from this bill are 50%. That's what he said. Not 50, 53%. For political parties in the RS budget, 43% of what we have singled out today, when we adopt this proposal today, it will be so much less. In 2011, if you had accepted the SNS proposal and the amendment that we have proposed today, the RS budget would have been higher by 7m 950,000 euros, i.e. if you had accepted the whole package, which we are proposing today, would have saved about 13m euros. I know we can understand that 13 million euros isn't a big amount of money if you're looking at the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13768	Mr. Kovacevic, please return only to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13769	It's an amendment to Article 2. What I would also like to point out is that this is mainly about the expenditures and revenues of the tax, the financing of political parties concerning the RS budget. Also, Article 2 discusses local self-government. Local self-governments are financed crucially, from tax revenues that have been granted and which are sourceable. In local incomes...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13770	Mr Kovacevic, you cannot talk about the whole article 2. We are on the amendment submitted jointly by the MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaib Kamberi. You need to talk about that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13771	I'm talking about Article 2, just follow me. It discusses funding political parties from the local administration budget. That's what I'm talking about right now. This is Article 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13772	Mr. Kovacevic, that's not the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13773	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13774	It is on Article 2, but you must talk about the text of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13775	Okay. I don't think we understand each other, but the amendment promoters understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13776	I understand you very well. I understand that you are a new MP, that you do not yet know the Rules of Procedure, but you cannot speak of all of Article 2, except for the amendment submitted by a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13777	So, in Article 2, it's also being saved at a local level, it's proposing actually... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13778	Mr. Kovacevic, I can't let you talk anymore. The People's MPs Gordana Komic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 3rd amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic and Blasa Bozovic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic. Balsha's giving you a head start.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13779	Thank you and the chairman and Mr Bozovic. By Article 3 of these amendments and by supplementing the law, I believe you're removing one of the most important principles of initial law. The principle of equality of parties at the moment the elections are dissipated. Using most of the Assembly, you give the SNS priority at the start of the campaign. This amendment I submitted was an amendment that defined Serbia's transparency. In a dialogue I find very meaningful. I agreed to the amendment, signed it, and I think this law will make it better. In fact, the political life of the parties has several levels. I'd say two. One is regular work and party member 19. The laws receive funds for regular work and regular functioning – for paying rooms, for paying phones, salaries and that amount of funds received by the parties from the budget depends on the number of MPs. That's fair. However, you three allow the funds defined for regular party work to be transferred to fund the election campaign. What's so controversial about that? The fact that money is determined by Article 20 for campaign financing. – new funds that have nothing to do with funding on a regular basis. So you're allowing the campaign twice to separate funds from the budget, twice for the same thing. It's the opposite of the Budgetary System Act. In this way you allow the SNS advantage in the choice itself, and all parties when the campaign is called should be equal, receive equal funds. After the election, they get as much as they deserve and how many citizens they've been assigned. That's fair. But abolishing equality is the abolition of one of the basic principles of initial law. Three are very important. One, it is true, in 2011, increased funds for disseminating political parties. It was a principle, an attempt to reduce the possibility of external financial influence on the parties. That's how it's done in normal, orderly political systems. The second principle was better control of spending. The third principle - the principle of equality. You will end this article of equality at the moment the elections are held. You give priority to the SNS and you break one of the basic principles. I suggested two days ago and we would have told you that you had some debate, not in the five-man board room, debate of our society about how much democracy costs today in Serbia. Is it expensive or is it so expensive the cheapest kind of state order? I said and I'll repeat, I don't just mean the financial aspect. Let's introduce to the citizens how much autocracy costs in Serbia. Is it cheaper or is it so cheap too expensive for any society that seeks to be normal? But what a debate it was, the bill couldn't have been better.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13780	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13781	Interesting stuff. The debate takes place and at meetings of the committee, Mr Nikolic, none of your political party's representatives have even come. No one, not today when we talked about the amendment, not when we're discussing the law in principle. You didn't even come. You don't do your job and you can see it from a stenogram. Get away from the conversation. Even your colleague said no, no, no, this isn't the deal. There was no deal. You ran away from the deal. ( National MP Dejan Nikolic, from the post: Which member? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13782	Don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13783	What Serbian citizens need to know, that the funds allocated to campaign financing are...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13784	Mr. Nikolic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13785	It's not my problem, Mr. Chairman, any influences, threats, demagogue, it's important to keep the funds to the citizens and the budget. Let them call me whatever, let them count my bites as Mr. Vesenovic. What is the fact that this law reduces both these funds and that all the resources that are being reduced and this bill reduces equally, equally, linearly for all political parties, that this law does not favour any political party. It favours the citizens of Serbia and gives priority to public finances to recover. However, one very interesting thesis said by the previous speaker, that in 2011, they increased the amount of funds for political parties from 5.5m euros to 11m euros in order to avoid the influence of capital owners on decisions in political parties. Does this mean that someone with more than 11m euros can come and buy a political party? How much does your political party cost, Mr. Nikolic? Throw it into the market, throw it out. We can see how much the DS shares cost. A little lower and lower, 6%, six percent worth, but enough to keep power in Novi Sad and Vojvodina, but how much do they cost? This is what you said cost 11m euros. Anyone who has more than 11m euros can influence. Anyone with less than 11m euros can't affect the DS. What kind of a thesis is that? I guess political attitudes don't buy or sell. I guess it's something to wear in your head, in your thinking, in your desire. When Serbian citizens say -- yes, that's it, then you rule, then implement those ideas, not when someone who has more than 11m euros comes, Mr. Nikolic. They sell your client enough for 11 million euros. Well, here, at least they know how much capital you're costing, not to compete, or not to give less. I think it's still too high a price. That that price was in 2011, when you were much bigger and bigger and stronger, now, 6% of it, with exactly the percentage you rule in Vojvodina. Some things can't be bought. For some things, the card is insufficient, no matter how big and fat it is, no matter how big the owner of large capital was powerful and large. Some things can't be bought, at least they can't be bought in SNS. At your place, you've thrown out the price, so whoever wants it and whoever wants it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13786	Thank you, Mr. Babic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Mr. Nikolic, at the same time, you and him came forward, so I don't know. Make a deal. Who's gonna talk? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13787	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment has not been accepted and we are very wrong about it for the simple reason that this is also one of the essential amendments that would change changes in the amendments and addition of the laws proposed by the SNS. I would read it that, the amendment-changed bill provides that, I quote: "the funds for funding the regular work of political entities are also used to finance the costs of the election campaign, in accordance with this law". So, first of all, some principles have been broken. First of all, we do not understand what the proposaler's intention was in this sense and in this particular case? The principle of legal certainty speaks of that we must not have norms that can be interpreted twofold. We think that when it comes to funds, in particular this case from private sources, the collection of fees and contributions that have been collected and pre-scheduled, they can also be used to fund the election campaign if they are transferred to a special campaign financing account. It could have been under this existing law. However, the current proposal for complementarity by the SNS does not make the difference between the sources of public and private sources, so that the effect of introducing this change would be an unlimited possibility of using the funds received from the budget for one purpose, which is the regular functioning of political entities, for a completely different purpose, and that is, as my predecessor, Mr Dejan Nikolic, said, to finance the election campaign. In that case, not only would funds be allocated twice, as my predecessor mentioned, and that violates the second principle, which is the principle of the budgetary system, that they cannot be allocated for the same purpose twice the different amounts of money. We think this is a thing that makes it largely impossible for citizens to have insight, and of course they create an entirely unrealistic legal position in which they put political entities. A democratic principle of equality has also been violated, where the same amount of money could be paid by law so far, i.e. the same amount before, or during the election call, and according to the winning result of the list of electoral savings, i.e. on the basis of the number of parliamentary mandates, they also receive additional funds to cover the costs of the campaign itself. If funds were to be used from the budget to finance the regular work of political entities, this would mean that parliamentary political parties, which are the most numerous in the Assembly, would have a huge advantage over all others and would thus question one democratic principle. When it comes to loans and today we've had several opportunities to talk about and on the subject, the thing is quite clear about what we've had several times today to hear. We suggested that Section 2 and Section 3 be deleted for that reason. When it comes to position 3 relating to the loan, I would only touch what today was the subject of this debate, and it is also about the loan that DS took in 2012. I'm not going into whether it was taken by one president, returning a second, a third, but I'm entering that it was a loan with which DS did not damage Serbian citizens, did not endanger the country's financial stability. As we had the chance to hear, we took at an interest rate of 18% credit from the Vojvodina Development Bank. We're in charge of 360 million dinars, and in just two and a half years we're back at this interest rate of 480 million dinars. We think this is the biggest business success of the development of Vojvodina Bank, the DS loan. We have not heard of the other loans she took and the SNS in 2012, including in 2014 and at which interest rate. That's why I think this is the thing that's trying to spin those things that my predecessor was talking about. Democracy is at stake with this law. Failure to accept this amendment questioned the simple reason why many political parties, and above all, the biggest ones will have a huge advantage at the very beginning over all others. This puts some democratic principles at risk. We believe democracy in Serbia should not have a price. We think it's essential to our society. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Here's Nikolic threw out the price.) ) Whether six per cent of DS won in one election shortly afterwards won 25% in some locals. Indeed, what DS is worth will be said by voters in some of the next elections. We'll welcome every next election ready. But to go back and finish the last sentence when it comes to this law, we don't need media spins, we don't need congregational speeches that one of these important laws that, by our deep conviction, is bad, because it goes against the principles of democracy, we try to spin some other accusations from some earlier times, because we think this is a law that will greatly collapse democracy in Serbia and that any subsequent elections will be elections where the SNS will have an indescribably great advantage over all other political entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13788	I thank Mr. Bozovic. There's only one minute and twenty seconds left for your parliamentary group. Tell Mr. Nikolic. To mention name only if not in a negative context is not allowed for replication. You consider yourself entitled to a replica, but I should have given it to you right after the speech, and you left the word to your colleague, so I can't give you my word right now. Mr. Nikolic, you can only waste the time of an authorised representative if you want. The word has been made by MP Dejan Nikolic, deputy head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13789	He's not the enemy of the Democratic Party, as you wish to introduce her. It is not our society's enemy or the deficit, nor those notaries we have discussed, the enemy of our society is general places, pathetics and the culture of dialogue that has been at work for two and a half years. You're trapped in populistism, lost in unideabilities, wandering from research to research. The election result is a naked force, and this drilling into the heroic breasts with an election result is more barbaric than a democratic act. Do you know what bush the hypocrites lie in? In this law, you will save 3.5m euros, but in four years you will provide the Serbian Progressive Party with 600m dinars more in the election race. Six million dinars more to the Serbian Progressive Party in the election race. Mr Djurisic explained the other day, or the day before yesterday, that he remains the Serbian Progressive Party from regular funding 10, 12 to 15 million a month, over 150 million a year. In four years, 600 million dinars more to the Serbian Progressive Party. You will save three-and-a-half million euros, a few days ago you owed the state 400m euros for the "Serbigas" liquidity. We've been hearing about reforms that have to happen for two and a half years. It's my grudge to the previous authorities, because I was talking about it, and I have a right to talk about it today. You have to stop clouding your own incompetence with some former regime. First of all, the ex was yours and you're starting to work things out. As long as you're so content with defending this law, the citizens outside keep their dignity, step on it to ensure their existence and survive. Start working already. We've been waiting two and a half years for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13790	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Granny, do you want a word? I just have to delete the list to give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13791	I'm not going to use such beautifully learned sayings, trained in front of a mirror. There are no such healing waters in Vrnjačka spa, as there are in Soko Banja for such beautiful democratic growth and showing, but there is common sense. (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: Opposite... . )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13792	Mr. Nikolic, don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13793	Now, if we were accused here until a few minutes ago that the Serbian Progressive Party would buy all possible properties in Serbia, that it would buy you what, that it would buy even that building in the pasture next to the temple of the Holy Sava on which the building had been made. That we're going to buy, I don't know what any of that means. Now we've forgotten these properties. We have now moved that these funds will be used for the election campaign. You guys make a deal once, you either charge us with real estate, or you accuse us of campaigning. Well, he can't do it once and for all. Well, he can't go two places. It's impossible. After all, what you haven't learned in 2012 and two and a half years has passed and you can't see past and never fall in love with what you see in the mirror of good messages, memorized by memory, but unapplicated, trained in certain workshops for the PR. You won't learn one thing – money doesn't buy choices. You thus and in this way show how you won the elections by 2012. Only money, only bags, only bribery and shopping and anything, siphons from the Development Bank, the Vojvodina Development Fund. Once you learn that by 2012, SNS had no tools, we had no "Pres" like your former leader Dragan Gilas. We weren't media owners, like you were media owners. We didn't control the media the way you controlled them. I was walking past RTS, and not that side down the Takovska, not the right side, the left side, because that right side of the sidewalk down the Takowska street was forbidden, let alone go inside. You had 11m euros that you assigned yourself and you lost the election again. They don't make choices, they don't work, they don't get money. The election is won by politics, honesty, correctness, truth, all that stuff... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Jakov, Jakovi. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13794	Mr. Djurishich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13795	All the things we went out with in front of the citizens of Zemun and Voždovac, first, then every other local self-government or rural elections or presidential elections, all those choices we received by election will, what the Serbian citizens believed. Well, you had all the money in the world in 2012, you had donors you couldn't get rid of. You had those who made the companies, who were in short supply, who didn't pay taxes, but they had to donate DS, so you lost the election again. Wake up. The election was won by fair politics, by responsibility, by money, by money, by money, but there were no 400,000 people you left without a job. The money didn't have those people who lost their jobs and had no future in the companies you privatized in a robbery way. They had money and had money for individuals and now, as director of the Fund for European Affairs, the Regional Fund for European Affairs – 431.000 dinars of wages, its PR. 316,000 dinars, and there's some job that can't be determined, but there's a salary of 310,000 dinars. God, how democratic and how good that is. You lose the election because of this, you lose the election because of this kind of thing, not because anyone is oppressing you in this way. Call me whatever you want, you won't scare me or any of your SNS colleagues. Call me whatever you want, insult me, count where I've been and who I've been with. Play Iliju Cvorovic, act and be Ilija Cvorovic, but this money will remain in the pocket of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it will remain in the budget, not go to your billboards, to our billboards, it will not go to political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13796	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a regular break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] We're continuing our work. By amendment to Article 3, does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13798	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have provided for two amendments with this amendment, we have added a new position 2 and I would refer only to attitude 3 this time, which I think is extremely important in this discussion. We predicted that funds for funding the regular work of political entities cannot be used to finance humanitarian, sports and cultural and other similar activities. The amendment refers to the provision of a ban on the use of funds for regular work for the financing of humanitarian sports cultural and artistic and other similar activities. In fact, these types of activities are not in line with the objective of which political parties are established and operated, so neither the funds can be used for such activities. At the same time, we are all witnessing that individual political parties are very often resorting to the so-called "so-called" to attract voters in the absence of any political ideas. humanitarian activities. In addition, if explicitly the law does not prohibit such activities from being financed, or tolerates such activities to be financed, the small door is subject to legal purchase of votes, free checks, purchase of flour, oils, etc. Our intention was to prevent examples such as the one from Obrenovac, where the chairman of the SNS Municipal Health Council called on members and supporters of the party for a lecture to prevent the cancer of the cervix, of course, with reviews and lectures and it would be organised and voice-gathering. Then, a case from Koseric where it is organized during the campaign...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13799	Time, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13800	... to finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13801	You can finish, just let me warn you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13802	It's okay. Where an ophthalmological review is organised during the campaign, sharing 1,500 glasses with voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13803	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws and other acts in the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 4th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Sabina Dazdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13804	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of the political activity of the funds planned by the budget for the financing of the election campaign has been reduced. By reducing the budget of the political parties of national minorities, such as our party, SDA Sandzak, who is the legitimate representative of the Bosniak national minority, is reducing the rights of a national minority, so through the work of its representatives, it resolves its issues and realises its rights. We from the SDA Sandzak party support the proposal's intention to create through many laws that have been passed here in the national parliament a legal system that will facilitate and speed up Serbia's integration into the EU, which aims to improve the lives of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. However, we are not convinced that a good move is to save in a part where members of national minorities have the right and have the obligation to choose their legitimate representatives, and in doing so, their potential representatives are not able for financial reasons to present to them their plans and programmes, which poses one danger to the democracy of society. Therefore, the introduction of austerity measures into the Law on the financing of political activities could choke the political parties of national minorities to such an extent that they could be completely left without their legitimate representatives, which would be the same as taking away their right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13805	Thank you, Mrs. Dazdarevic. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dejan Nikolic and Balsa Bozovic jointly submitted to the 4th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic together submitted to the 5th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13806	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment speaks of this as actually a new position that predicts that total campaign funds for parliamentary elections are limited to 5,000 average monthly earnings. It's about two million euros a party. In the March party's campaign, they spent the following amount: SNS – 942,000,000 dinars or about 9,000,000 euros, SPS – 341,000,000, DS – 174.000, LDP – 165,000. A total of 2.1 billion dinars or around 20,000,000 euros were spent. In the event of acceptance of my change in savings that will be made on the basis of a lower spending of tax revenues and money from Serbian citizens, there will be about 8,000,000 euros for the parties I have counted only. That's twice as much savings as the one the proposer is offering. I call upon the promoter, if he really cares about the savings, to accept this amendment and to get to the core savings. He spoke when he explained the law to spend money on the sea of billboards, on expensive campaigns. Eighty percent of this money was spent on marketing representation, on media representation. What's all this for? I think the SNS could better introduce itself to Serbian citizens with much less money. You spent 9,000,000 euros to explain to pensioners that there will be no pension cuts and that is what you have succeeded in. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens, pensioners have failed to save their pensions. I don't see why it was done. (SNS MPs: Time. We need to go through a parliamentary campaign to confront ideas with as little as possible... (SNS MPs: Time. Chairman, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13807	I ask the MPs to allow the speaker to complete his presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13808	The political parties should present their ideas and actions that came from these ideas. I don't see why it's SNS's problem to present a channel to Thessaloniki, Mercedes in Serbia or a chip factory... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13809	Mr. Jovanovic, you have no more time. And these 20 seconds you had left... Ivan Jovanovic, from the scene: The system wrote for two minutes. Those were replicas. Here, we've got it in the system. There's 20 seconds left. (Ivan Jovanovic, from the site: The system says there is still time left. That's not true. If you think you've been denied in 20 seconds, here's another 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13810	We need to present our ideas to the citizens of Serbia, to offer them during the campaign, the work that came from these ideas. I mentioned some of the works that were accomplished. I've been reading in the regime papers that we've been living better since 2016. So it is clear that it does not take 9,000,000 SNS to achieve the result it expects and that less money is needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13811	Mr. Jovanovic, you spoke for 30 seconds. Ten seconds more than I've allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13812	Okay, I understand your need.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13813	Mr. Jovanovic, I only respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The parliamentary group is told how much time there is. You used your time. I gave you ten seconds more. I don't think you have the right to be angry. Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13814	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, Article 7 of the amendment and addition of this law introduces the obligation of the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency to prescribe a form to fill out a report on the spending of money in the campaign. This supplement, proposed, speaks of the fact that no later than five days after the election date, the document should be submitted, and then the next position proposed to add says that the amendments and additions to this act cannot be made during the election campaign. We think this is contradictory. The idea is good and we support the idea, but this is how the proposal is contradictory. The law that we are changing in Article 2 defines that the election campaign begins on election day. So you're saying in the first position that you're adding that within five days of the vote being called, an act should be passed, and then in the next position you say, in the course of the election campaign, there's no change in the act. Our amendment is merely a proposal to cast out this first view of the obligation to adopt an act within five days of the election being called, as this act has already been adopted, already exists. Whether or not it should be changed, the Agency's director should take into account and not be in a situation where only after the election has been called in to amend the act on which the parties should apply the report. So, if this change is adopted that you've proposed, you're going to be in a contradictory situation. Two of these attitudes will be mutually opposed and a question will be asked which position of this law the director should respect and how he should act in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-08-0.u13815	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. Is anyone else answering this amendment? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, and given that it has already voted on the first two points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Saturday, 8 November 2014, starting at 1600 hours, as the Day of Vote on the remainder of the agenda of the 7th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 133 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular of the law amending the Health Insurance Act, we are moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, in principle. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – three abstentions – there is no, no vote – two of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – four against – one who has not voted – 142 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – four against – one who has not voted – 142 of the total of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I ask the service to urgently find the cards of Aleksandar Jugovic and Meh Omerovic. Please, MPs, you can't blame anyone for not taking your cards with you. It's your business to wear it. Not all MPs and the National Assembly can now wait because you didn't take your cards with you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – for - four, no one who is abstention - has voted – 144 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Branko Karavidic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 145 of the total of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on all amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the bill amending the Health Insurance Act, in general. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – three abstentions – there is no, no vote – three of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a bill amending the Health Insurance Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the bill on health records and health records in the area of health care, we are moving to a decision. I put the bill on health records and health records in the field of health, in principle. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no MPs who have not voted from the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments: Articles 17, 18, 19 and 22 submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic and the members of 25 and 33 submitted by the Committee on Health and Family. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 147 of the total attendance of the 151-nation MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 147 of the total attendance of the 151-nation MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the bill on health documentation and records in the field of health care, in general. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned in favour of - 150, has voted for one of the 151 people's MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted most of the votes a bill on health documentation and records in the field of health care. As we now move to a decision on election and resolution proposals, paragraphs 5 and 6 of the agenda, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority, holds most of the votes of all the MPs. In view of the fact that no amendments have been made to those proposals, as referred to in Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the DS parliamentary group, in general. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned in favour of - 150, has voted for one of the 151 people's MPs present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the appointment of the president and vice-president of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, which Maja Gojkovic, in general, submitted. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned in favour of - 150, has voted for one of the 151 people's MPs present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. We move to – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Financial Activities After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 147 against – four abstentions – there is no, one of the total members of the country did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the Members of the People's Parliament: in the same text of MP Aleksandr Jugovic and together of the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic to Article 1; and Professor Vladimir Marinkovic to Article 5. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The first amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - one, abstention - there is no, 146 out of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 147 of the total number of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Gordana Komic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 147 of the total number of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – three, abstentions – there is no, 144 of the total of 152 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Gordana Komic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidic, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Snezana Malovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – four abstentions – there is no vote, one of the 152 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without reviewing it, be made known in the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic said at a session on 3 November 2014, at 11 o'clock and 45 minutes, that he was injured by members 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there are no, 130 of the 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic said at a session on 3 November 2014, at 12:00 p.m., that the members of 103 and 104 were injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, abstention – there is no, 128 of the total of 133 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic said at a session on 3 November 2014, at 15 hours and 38 minutes, that he had injured members 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, the abstention – there is no, 128 of the total of 132 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 5 November 2014, at 11 o'clock and 54 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – two, abstentions – no, 125 of the 130 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, at a session on 7 November 2014, at 9 o'clock and 42 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 124 of the total of 129 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 8 November 2014, at 10 o'clock and 42 minutes, pointed to the violation of members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 124 of the total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 8 November 2014, at 11 o'clock and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: four, against - three, abstentions - no, 119 of the total of 126 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 8 November 2014, at 11 o'clock and 11 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – no, 122 of the total of 126 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 8 November 2014, at 12 o'clock, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – two, abstentions – no, 125 of the 130 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. I hereby conclude the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I thank the Members of the People.
