ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3871	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and People's MPs, on behalf of the SPO and DHSS Group, I would like to ask the Ministry of State Administration and the Local Self-Government - whether it is preparing legislative proposals that will allow for a different territorial organisation of our country, i.e. decentralisation, i.e., even more specifically, creating a larger number of municipalities compared to the existing ones? In the SPO, we believe that neither autonomous areas nor regions can ensure a balanced and even development of all areas in Serbia unless a whole series of new municipalities are formed and these municipalities become the primary holders of self-government, because in these local areas, they should become the owners of incomes themselves and decide independently on the development of their environments. We believe in the SPO, and we have defined it in our programme for decentralisation and regionalisation of Serbia that it is vital for our country to return their property to municipalities, including the country, building land, forests, to return to them all their responsibilities, including their own employment policy, to return to them the rights they once had on concessions, to their own property, to be able to explore their own privatisation tenders. We believe that municipalities under these new legal solutions should also have income from the lease of business space, or from the property tax on their territory. We are saying this because in the former Yugoslav republics, such as Slovenia and Croatia, these solutions gave positive results. Such solutions therefore exist in some other EU countries. Since more than 50 years in Serbia has not practically changed the number of municipalities, and since Yugoslavia's collapse, we will take the example of Slovenia and Croatia, with them the process of decentralisation took hold and today the Republic of Croatia has more than 500 municipalities. It's a number that used to have an entire SFRY. Or, Slovenia, which has been in the EU since 2004, has 210 municipalities. So more than Serbia, Slovenia has about two million inhabitants. Serbia, without KIM, seven, and Serbia has a smaller number of municipalities, which means that an average of about 9,000 people live in a Slovenian municipality, while the average is around 46,000. I'm saying this because we have large non-functional municipalities that can't meet all the needs of their citizens. Here's an example of the town of Leskovec whose composition is over 180 local communities. How will the city's leadership, how will the mayor go there during his term, and how will he solve their problems regarding water supply, education, health problems and other life issues? We believe that these municipalities have to be founded wherever people need to be because they don't serve people with municipalities but vice versa, municipalities should serve people. These new and small municipalities that would be formed outside the cities, as well as these existing cities, have to be trimming. We have a law that predicts the formation of new municipalities in the territory of existing cities, but it is not time-limited, so, practically, those solutions do not oblige anyone to form these new municipalities in the territory of the cities as they do in Loznica. The password has, in practice, the status of the city, but there are no new municipalities and such is the situation in other cities in Serbia's territory. So it can't be that any new and small municipality can't support its administration, and it would be municipalities that would be functional, responsible to the citizens and here, I end up with, let's say, in the case of Slovenia, when I visited one of their municipalities, it's called Olympia and when I talked to the mayor and asked him how many employees there are in their municipal administration, one and a half employees told me, which is the municipality that was declared one year the most successful in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3872	Thank you, MP. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3873	I would like to thank the Honorable President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the current topic is certainly Mr Barroso's visit to Serbia and, let me say, the slap we got as a country because we haven't thought about some areas at all. For two and a half years, it has been a struggle for an ecological ministry that would take care of the environment and that would lead Serbia into order of organised, clean and ecologically acceptable countries to meet the EU. We've had a system of environmental protection that's what we'd say. We can't say he was perfect, but after 2012, we absolutely don't have a system for environmental protection. We have abolished the Environmental Protection Fund as the only instrument, an economic instrument for paying in the environment. We also abolished the Chemicals Agency, as one of the most significant control agencies, what comes from chemicals in the Republic of Serbia from biocidal products, which sprays fields in Serbia, such as chemicals in households. The European Commission's report last year was extremely devastating in the field of chemical management. A few days ago, we got that slap, and we kind of like it better when someone outside reminds us something's wrong, than when we're trying to fix it here or we're trying to point things out that aren't best done. Green Serbia has been proposing a special ecological ministry for two and a half years. Green Serbia has been proposing a two-and-a-half-year environmental fund and therefore we think that these things are of paramount importance on their way to the European Union. We've abolished all environmental revenues and integrated them into a large budget. The natives, the Lazarevci, the Pancians rightly wonder where their eco dinar is. Last year you were answering me with some Belgrade that wasn't in your jurisdiction, here's Belgrade in your jurisdiction, give Obrenovac back the ecological dinar. Unfortunately, there are no more of those people in parliament, unfortunately or fortunately, that party is no longer in parliament that has initiated the abolition of the Fund, which has destroyed environmentalology in Serbia, which has destroyed the economy in Serbia and fortunately, that man will probably never again be a politician and will never be a finance minister again. My question for the prime minister is very specific – can one of the solutions be the establishment of a Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, above all to raise the authority of the ecological administration and improve environmental governance. The New Democratic Party MP Group – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia believes it is necessary to form a fund for environmental protection in order to stabilise environmental money flows and ensure that the principle-polluter pays is implemented. I believe, when you talk about it, there was malfeasance. Unfortunately, you haven't proven them in two and a half years. You haven't arrested anyone, and you've abolished the Environmental Protection Fund. If there are malfeasances, not one institution is abolished, but people who have malfeasances are processed. If they did indeed have malfeasances, then we would have to abolish 90% of the institutions in Serbia, because there is reasonable doubt that there has been malfeasance in certain institutions in the Republic of Serbia. The ecological area is of particular importance in the light of European integration and the states of Serbia, which is in a constant economic crisis, must be strong and this ministry must be strong and independent. Only an independent ministry can be an expression of a responsible state and an adequate management of environmental affairs. We as Green Serbia do not want to deal with what the previous ministers have said about each other, we are not interested in that at all. Let's see how we can make a constructive agreement, how we can all be constructive actors and how we can partner up to establish an appropriate system of governance in the field of environmental protection, and all to join the EU. I hope it's our goal, all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3874	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3875	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, my question concerns two, I think, for citizens of extremely important topics. One is the responsibility for, above all, human victims, but also material and immaterial damages that occurred in the floods that occurred in the Republic of Serbia. The second refers to the Labour Act which is actually a large part of our citizens, because it is not only the law concerning those who work, but also those citizens who are looking for work, those citizens who are afraid that they will lose their jobs and all those who participate in any way in the labour market. When it comes to floods, my question, President, is to you, since we have a new moment compared to the last time I asked you. Namely, I asked you when will you meet your business obligation and schedule a session with a special subject requested by the DS parliamentary group? I put the accent on the word "obligation" because it really is your obligation, not the matter of your assessment. You then gave me an unorthodox answer, that there were no conditions for respecting the Rules of Procedure, which, apart from being unusual, could represent the establishment of dangerous practice in the Assembly. If MPs themselves appreciate the conditions for respecting the Rules of Procedure, I fear that this will not lead us anywhere, so before you insist very often that what it says in the Rules of Procedure cannot be discussed or negotiated. Meanwhile, we have received a report from the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was delivered this morning, I think, to the MPs. The government referred it to an emergency procedure. I hope it won't be the same case as with the other laws coming through the emergency procedure and we'll have at least one day or two to read it. From what we've seen, what I've had a chance to see, really, when I looked at it, there's a lot of data. Here is something interesting – the drivers Darko Tomić, Željko Švabić, wore fresh food packages three times a day (sandvich, yogurt and doughnuts). So we see what the fresh food packages were, but what we don't see in the report is exactly what we want to get an answer like DS through that session we're looking for, which is a chain of responsibility, a chain of obligations, what they were and whose jurisdiction and whether there was some kind of a gap in it. My question to you is do you think that then this report and the debate on this report will replace that absolutely different debate that DS requires, which you have to schedule according to the Rules of Procedure, which would deal with entirely other topics than what this report deals with, because it is not so important for the citizens that the drivers were driving doughnuts and what was in the chain of packages that were taken away from the people who packed the bags, but it is extremely important whether someone in that chain had failed, or if it could have been prevented what happened those days? First of all, I mean human victims, not material victims. The other thing is the Labour Act. We didn't get any answers to my earlier question – where is this draft labour law, why is the government hiding it from citizens? Again, it's not something that interests DS, it's what interests people. You know, the issue of severance, past work, annual vacations, sick leave, the way they're being handed out, the manipulation that seems to be, according to what we can hear, employers will be able to have as an instrument to further damage workers is not something that instills trust in citizens. Minister Udovicki made a scandalous statement today, that there is no need for any public debate because when citizens voted in the elections, they voted in favour of the law. Then let us completely abolish the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the government is passing laws with some kind of apparition, because obviously if citizens voted for everything that is proposed, then there is really no need for us to sit here and spend our resources. When will there be a public debate and as long as only unions, such as our union, who has performed with us on the parliamentary list, the Syllabic Union, will organise public debates? What does the government hide from its citizens when it comes to the Labour Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3876	Thank you. I don't know who this other question was referred to. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: Vladi. I thank you. As for the first one, I got the report yesterday, so something just before you, and I really didn't get to meet him. There are 400 pages, so I don't know part of the answer to tell you if that matter can replace the question, but the debate will be open, as I saw from the government's letter, asking all ministers and prime ministers to come, so that nothing will be limited to debate, nor will they be discussed only on the text. At least that's not how I picture it. I expect to see when all the ministers can come, because we still have to agree with the government. The session is very important for Serbian citizens. We may have a lex specialis in the meantime, so it'll be time to get to know each other and there won't be an appointment for tomorrow's session for sure about the report. For this second one, I'm just prejudged and I'm making my assumptions that we're going to get the right law. There are certain gaps in the Rules of Procedure, and unfortunately for me, since I am also a lawyer by vocality, I prefer when the norms are strictly defined, when what must happen. Now it turns out that you have to repeat your request every month, and we have to. I have the most objections to the Rules of Procedure, believe me. The stricter standards are set, the less interpretations there will be from the president or the chairman of the Rules of Procedure. I don't have anything else from the last answer, nothing new to add to you, because there were no conditions at the time, almost no one asked would come to the session. Otherwise, you really don't run away from the debate. I don't see what would have happened if the citizens of Serbia had been familiar with all segments of events surrounding the flood. I'm fenced, that's my personal opinion. The word is from the People's MP Dr. Vladica Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3877	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer my question to the Police Minister, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Local Self-Government, and the topic is that of the city of Dimitrovgrad. I would not ask this question in this high house, because it was placed where it should be in the institutions of our country, but since I was called two days ago by a respected colleague from DS Borislav Stefanovic, I need to explain myself in two, three minutes on the basis of this question. Namely, an esteemed colleague cited a letter from the president of the municipality of Dimitrovgrad, letters sent by that same president to many addresses, including the address of the SNS, which lists some things that are simply not true, but the aim of the general president of the municipality is to raise tension and create a chaos in the municipality with the majority of the Bulgarian national population, and all with the aim of losing support for its councilors, and the support of its fellow citizens has been gone for a long time, because he has only transmuted power to create a situation of tension and to maintain power. However, I am surprised that a high-ranking politician, such as my esteemed colleague, can take the quotes from this letter and insult me and my colleague Dragan Todorovic, without having previously heard the opinion of the other side, or us. Even if I understood that, given that we are members of the SNS or the Socialist Movement, and that he does not want to talk to us, I simply do not understand that DS Vice President has no communication with the municipal board of his DS in Dimitrovgrad, who made public through the media a few months ago that he does not support the current president of the municipality in Dimitrovgrad in front of the URS and that the DS committees are not giving the quorum to the current president of the municipality. As for SNS and trust in Dimitrovgrad, which is also offended in this case by these allegations, it is known that we are absolutely against any form of pressure, threats or blackmail against the council. No one in the credentials has a criminal record and we paint a national structure like it is in Dimitrovgrad, and we're practically against any kind of pressure, and that's not what we do. As far as the problem of the national minority is concerned, I think it's the result of my colleague's lack of information. There have never been national incidents in Dimitrovgrad, although we are a multinational environment. The only incident that ever took place was now the current president of the municipality, at which point it was not, when he was legally sentenced to 15 months in prison for spreading national impatience. In fact, it is not the rights of members of the national minority that are at risk, but only the personal interests of the president of the municipality are at stake. So in order to clear both his name and his name from the SNS trust in Dimitrovgrad, I ask the question of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice – were there any forms of threats, the blackmail of the councilors in SO Dimitrovgrad? The question I ask the Minister of Local Self-Government is – is the Ministry of Local Self-Government's inspection sent to the Municipality of Dimitrovgrad, and, at the request of So Dimitrovgrad, because of the self-authorization of the president of the municipality in the appointment of meetings of the Assembly, and contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3878	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? (No) We keep working. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladimir Pavicevic, Meho Omerovic, Stefana Miladanovic, Nedjo Jovanovic and Olgica Batic. Please understand, let's wait a few minutes for the minister to enter the building. I informed him to come in at 1:00. That's why I'm taking a short break. [[after breaks]] According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representatives of the motionary, Lazar Krstic, the Minister of Finance, Irina Stevanović Gavrović, Assistant Minister of Finance Mr Dejan Dabetic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Marjan Blešić, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Finance and Dragan Dejanovic, Assistant to the Public Debt Administration. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the first item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Dragan Jovanovic, Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branko Karavidić, Đorđe Stojsic, Goran Ćirić, Borislav Stefanović, Dragan Šutanovic, Suzana Spasojevic, Mirko Cikiriz, Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments, as well as the reports of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3880	Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which is amended in Article 7 following the words "and that of the legal persons with a tax debt of 20 million" as the number of "five million dinars". In Article 3, which is amended in Article 7 following the words "and the taxpayer with a tax debt of 5 million" and the number of "five million" is replaced by the number "500,000 dinars". Why did I submit this amendment? I tried to explain it in principle, as well as on the Finance Committee, and I think a lot of my colleagues understood. I understand and understand and understand the Ministry is technically problematic, but I think this can be overcome. Why am I telling this, first of all, to my fellow Members? In practice, so far it has proved to be a very efficient way and method to publish entrepreneurs and legal persons with larger debts on websites, especially local tax administrations. In smaller backgrounds, people know each other, and now those who have debts, believe me, sometimes it's hard for them to go out on the street without the neighbors knowing them and saying, 'cause they're the ones who owe for the tax. Since in smaller municipalities in Serbia you have a very small number of large legal entities, how much should a tax debt be accumulated to get someone to 20 million dinars? In that case, the smaller legal entities would be protected, especially entrepreneurs. Dear Ministers, I must remind you that 500 000 dinars are also very important revenue for a smaller municipality in Serbia and therefore I would ask you once again, with all the understanding that it is technically difficult to do in the Republic Tax Administration, but I also said this on the Finance Committee, two hours of work by one administrator could fix the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3881	Would you like to use the time of the mandated promoter?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3882	Yeah. Once again, this has proved to be an effective method and I would therefore ask you to reconsider this question, especially fellow Members of the People's Parliament to support this. I repeat - this can be an effective way and method, above all for local tax administrations, especially for public enterprises. In the context of the Government, it is explained that, in order to protect legal persons and the confidentiality of data, a greater limit has been taken. However, I cannot agree with that, because then local tax administrations, public companies, if you publish it on the site, there will be complaints, which to the Court, which to the Trustee or the Ombudsman for human rights, and then we will not be able to implement this method of publication on websites, too, completely loses meaning in municipalities that have under 30,000 inhabitants. Because of all this, I ask, above all, fellow MPs to support this amendment in the voting day, because it does not change the essence of the law in any way, only helps local tax administrations and local public enterprises to be able to charge their income more efficiently and that those who are deliberately or unwittingly deaf about paying taxes, so that they can also be publicly named in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3883	Thank you. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Branka Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3884	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House, for the sake of the public and for the sake of meeting and other MPs, I would like to explain this amendment, although it has been adopted. Namely, in Article 4(4), following the words “the tax authority will set a time limit,” they say, “which cannot be shorter than five days. ” The explanation given in addition to this amendment reads: “The proposed amendment prevents the arbitration of the tax authority and guarantees greater legal certainty by leaving a reasonable period of time to the taxpayer who delivered the document in language and letter which is not officially used to deliver a certified translation of the document in Serbian and thus fulfils his rights and fulfils his obligations, especially taking into account the time needed to be translated and certified by the court interpreter. ” My colleagues from the New Democratic Party and I have submitted a total of 10 amendments. The government accepted three of them. I can say that we are truly pleased that the government has recognised our good intentions to improve the quality of this text of the bill and to participate in making the best possible solutions, because this law applies to all citizens. Almost all citizens are, on some basis, taxpayers and fall under the jurisdiction of this law. However, I must say that even now in force the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which this ruling majority has already changed last year, is not so bad. There are solutions that are not the basis of all the problems that have arisen in this area. The problem is whether or not to apply the applicable provisions, which has been present in the last two years since this ruling majority took responsibility. About this, she wanted me to ask the Minister a question. Mr. Minister, I ask the question - how do you give us guarantees that these provisions will be adopted when the Assembly actually adopts them in the right way? The basis for doubt is much from the practice so far, and it complements your statement that you made earlier in the tide, when it came to increasing fines. In that case, you said, "If we put our hand in a pocket that was empty and pierced, someone else pierced it." We understand that you alluded to the period before you came to power but most of you have been here for two years and had the opportunity to make changes to the law. (President: MPs, I'm just asking you about the amendment so we don't go back to the principle debate. That would be a matter of principle. I wonder if these provisions will be applied by the government? That's what it's about. So I ask the question - will entrepreneurs and business owners have legal certainty to apply these provisions to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3885	Thank you. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Stojsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment and control the spending of public funds. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 9th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment and control the spending of public funds. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3886	Madam President, we have submitted an amendment to Article 9. During a brief but interesting debate on the Committee, the amendment was rejected. We don't know why. We got one explanation. I'd like the minister to comment a little. In fact, we did not provide for the amendment of Article 26(2) and to say that the FIB cannot assign itself to a legal person whose founder is a natural person whose spouse or member of the family household is the founder of another economic operator who has unsettled obligations on the basis of public income in relation to the performance. Among other things, we've submitted some five changes, but this is one of the things that we consider to be very important. We have faced an argument that I do not fully refuse that accepting this amendment would be against the constitution, as it is reportedly jeopardising the right to work. If this is true in terms of eradicating a socially harmful activity that leads in the extreme case to the avoidance of tax obligations, then the question arises how could this principle which could also be declared anti-constitutional apply, for example. when we take away the property they have acquired by committing a crime or when we try, as the DS is trying to cross-check the assets of all politicians in Serbia and all holders of political functions and their families. If this is unconstitutional, then it's unconstitutional. After all, none of us are the Constitutional Court and we can't define it in any way. That should be left to the Constitutional Court. It is up to us to follow the changes in society and deviation that exist and to them adequately respond through the regulations that we bring together here. This is one example of something that is very harmful and that is happening in Serbia. They avoid paying tax obligations. This clearly exists in our society. We're just trying to keep up with the adverse events and the times we live in. We do not understand why the Government rejects this amendment, and why have we not come across the support of the Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3887	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose not to accept the proposed amendment for the reason that accepting such a concise amendment would completely undermine the meaning of amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act. The purpose of the amendments and additions is to introduce zero tolerances towards debtors, according to the avoidance of legal provisions, according to the avoidance of the obligation to pay taxes. An amendment such as this would completely undermine the sense of the existence of such a provision of Article 9 amending the previous Article of the 26th Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3889	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3890	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, we are currently disagreeing with the explanation given by the president of the SNS. We believe that, as in some other parts, and not paying taxes is certainly an act, there is the possibility to analyse both related persons and to sanction the connected person who participates in this particular part, so is the matter of paying taxes. I'm talking about an individual who doesn't make a certain tax payment can continue his work through connected persons, through family members, to do the same work, and he's already in charge of not paying taxes. We think this would be one of the measures that would make it impossible for such things to be done. What is important to say is that unfortunately, this is one of the 12 amendments submitted by the DS, none of which has been accepted, and this clearly shows that the same manner continues in relation to the opposition in this parliament. I also remind you that this law has been experiencing changes and additions for the last two years for the fourth time in years. If you want to keep the law, I remind you the law is extremely old, there are 11 or 12 changes and you have to show some flexibility, that you have understanding of what we think is good. It's not just a question of the law, an increase in the punishment of those people who need to be sanctioned, but it's a question of how to prevent, to get into a situation where someone is being sanctioned, and we just think that this is a preventive way to prevent anyone from paying taxes, either through connected persons or directly as founder of a business society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3891	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3892	Thank you. Regarding this amendment, I support your intention to limit abuse, i.e. tax avoidance in every way, and I recognize the argument you have made. However, the expert opinion of our legal teams is that this is not in line with the constitution, and the parallel you state, when it is found that the property has been acquired in an illegal manner, it is also taken away from married spouses, or members of the household, I will just tell you that it is different. We know that the property that was acquired in marriage is shared property. So if it's illegally acquired then it can be taken away in another way. This parallel just doesn't stand. In addition, I want you to make sure that although the amendment is not accepted that there are services and mechanisms of control to be used to avoid abuse through this mechanism, or through members of households. As for the comment that the manner is the same as the opposition, we did not really pay attention to who submitted the amendment, but what is the essence of the amendment. As you can see, I hereby defend the amendment from a professional aspect, namely the government's decision not to accept it. The fact is that we have accepted four amendments and all four are opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3893	The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a time from the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3894	Mr. Minister, you're a little bit wider to interpret what married property is. Marriage property is also due, and it is divided into spouses. So, if one member of the family owes something, when the asset is divided, the debt is also shared, not only the property that is materially present, but also what is debt. So what you're saying as an argument can't stand. So if a member of the family owes for taxes, because of a private society he owned, and his wife or husband, doesn't matter, he opens up a company that deals with the same activity in the same way, then that man is also obliged to fall under that law and that it can't be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3895	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs: Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Branka Karavidic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3896	This amendment provided that Article 38, paragraph 8, following the words - removing these disturbances, adding a comma and words - and a copy of the solution will be delivered without delay to the bank or the organisation responsible for the forced payment of money from the taxpayer's account. Essentially what we're adding is precision without delay. The proposed amendment sets out the time limit within which the Tax Administration is to deliver a solution to the bank and to the organisation responsible for the forced collection, given that the proposed change relates to situations where the Tax Administration temporarily seized the FIB, because it found that there was a disturbance to its allocation at the time of the PIB's assignment. The proposed amendment provides for more effective control and prevents the production of harmful consequences that may result from the reception of the solution by the conduct of a person to whom the FIB has been temporarily taken away. In an explanation for the refusal of the amendment of the Government, the amendment is said to be not accepted for the reason why the proposed formulation was taken over from Article 13 of this Law. This is about cases of withdrawal of the FIB, and the adoption of the amendment would lead to disagreements in the conduct of the Tax Administration in the same situations as the violation of the consistency of the law. I must add to extend the explanation of our and the amendment concerns the withdrawal of the FIB, because the Tax Administration subsequently found that there was interference with the allocation of the FIB, from Articles 2 to 7.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3897	Are you wasting your time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3898	Yeah. Therefore, this case of confiscation of the FIB was already set aside as a special case, i.e. when it was found that there were interferences for the allocation of the FIB, it could have been more precisely that the taxpayer did not receive a PIB for reasons explicitly stated in the law and whose purpose was to prevent the avoidance of tax obligations and abuses. In view of this, the proposed amendment should have provided for the urgent handling of the Tax Administration in these cases and to prevent any adverse consequences that may arise through further operations of such entities. I ask the Government to reconsider this amendment to prevent such adverse consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3899	Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. The word is Janko Veselinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3900	I will use the time of the parliamentary group, according to the same amendment. First, I would like to point out that three amendments to the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, NDS, ZZ, Green Serbia, have been accepted, and shows significant quality in the work of our parliamentary group and commitment to every law. True, sometimes we don't have enough time for that. We've given 10 quality amendments this time. We think, Minister Baptizer, that you should have accepted this amendment as well. In fact, this case concerning a situation where a unique identification number in a particular case has not been assigned is the case of a “dry generis”, therefore, a special case that has been apostrophefed in this law. However, there is no adequate protection, that is, a procedure that would in some way prevent the possibility of adverse consequences. Effective protection against adverse consequences. We have here specified that we should add words – without delay to deliver this information to the bank and to the organisation responsible for the forced payment of money from the taxpayers to avoid potentially harmful consequences. Since you are here, Minister, I believe it would be very interesting to give us an answer to one question that is crucial, which is being raised these days, which is why there was an increase in insurance prices by 45%? Can we get an answer today? Can Serbian citizens get an answer to this question? So, 45% of the price rise of something that citizens pay once a year is a serious blow to their pocket, so please, Minister Baptizer, if you can give us an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3901	Alexander Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I would like, as well as the honourable previous speaker to point out that the government has accepted a number of amendments submitted by your parliamentary group saying that the government is interested in talking openly and open to all proposals and when the good government proposals have been accepted from whatever political parties they came from. When it comes to your amendment, as well as in the recent debate, we have pointed out that Article 9 to which you have submitted the amendment is one of the most important members of such a proposal to amend and supplement the Tax Procedure Act and, as such, is fundamentally changing the current law in Article 26 of the current law. This is about preventing the proposed text of Article 9 from being misused directly. We can no longer get into a situation where someone has some debt and then close that business entity, company or company, open a new one and continue to carry out their activities. So this law prevents that possibility of abuse. This Article 9 directly closes that kind of abuse and does not need to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3903	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac and MP Djordje Stojsic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac and MP Djordje Stojsic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3904	So, we ask this amendment to delete Article 39(4) because we believe it is a complete absurd for a taxpayer if he does not file a tax return by order of the tax administration, let's say, to remove any irregularities that have been identified, then the tax administration will file an application instead of a taxpayer. So we asked this question on the board, on the basis of which the tax administration will file that tax return, does it know anything more than a taxpayer in whose interest it is to remove these shortcomings and what irregularities? It seems to us that this attitude is completely inaccurate and ambiguous and we suggest that it be deleted because it is subject to abuse. There can be the same sign of a question about whether or not it's a wasteland. And that's exactly what I'd like to hear, how are you going to say that the elements of this provision are in order, and the elements of those previous ones we've proposed are not and how one party's amendments that are almost identical are adopted, and the other party in the opposition is not. I'm not asking a fellow respected from the majority, I'm asking the government, because I have no intention of talking to lawyers but to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3905	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3906	The amendment to Article 14, i.e. Article 14 of the Law, refers to the delivery of tax returns, not to the submission of tax returns by the tax administration when it is not adopted, so I'm not sure that you're talking about the correct amendment now. As far as I'm concerned, I don't know now whether to answer what you're talking about or this amendment that's been filed. I'll take the one who put up with it. In fact, where it is spoken of, or changed, it existed earlier that 15 days from the day of the transfer of the tax code was mailed to delivery he was considered to have been delivered. We have now significantly expanded this member with these amendments and additions to define for the different types of taxpayers in which it is considered to be delivered and this is a better solution. So, this amendment that you've submitted, I don't think it's in the spirit of the improvement this law makes. As for the issues of acceptance or non-acceptance, I answered, I don't know if you didn't listen to me, that out of the four amendments accepted, all four were from the opposition, we didn't accept the amendments from the majority, and believe me, we didn't see which party she was taking and which one she didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3907	Thank you, Minister. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic - Korac and Branka Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic - Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3908	Thank you. On Article 14, my colleague and I have submitted the amendment by changing the entire article in 36 and quoting how it should be. I will point only to the essence of the change in relation to the government's proposal. In relation to the proposal submitted by the Government, the difference is that the word ‘ordinary consignment’ is deleted in paragraph 1, which states: ‘If the delivery of a tax act is carried out by sending an ordinary consignment, the tax act shall be deemed to have been delivered at the end of the 15-day period from the date of submission of the tax act’ and in paragraph 10 to delete the words ‘or, when the delivery is carried out in accordance with the position of the 4th of this article’, and I have read the item 4 which we have proposed to delete earlier. The proposed amendments exclude, in fact, ordinary shipment as a way of delivering to the tax payer of the tax act, thus ensuring a higher level of legal certainty and certainty. In particular, the tax acts laid down in Article 34(1), which are a tax solution, conclusion, tax control order, tax control record and other act to be initiated, completed, amended or completed by a tax procedure, are such acts which are relevant for the further course of the procedure and the decision on a certain tax liability or the obligation of the taxpayer in respect of which the taxpayer has the right to plead. In order to achieve its right, it is necessary to have a high degree of security that the taxpayer has received the tax act, which is not the case when sending the ordinary mail which is as a delivery method established in the proposed amendments, which we exclude by amendment. The government's explanation of the refusal of this amendment calls for an explanation of the refusal of amendments submitted by counterparts Goran Ćirić, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac, and says: "The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed solution increases the legal certainty of the debtors in relation to the present existence while narrowing down the space for abuses resulting from the avoidance of the reception of the solution and other tax acts, with subsequent calls for messy delivery when tax proceedings are launched." I have to supplement the explanation and say – it is not clear how the proposed legislation increases the legal certainty of the taxpayer in the situation where the tax code is delivered by ordinary shipment and when it is possible to make a mistake or in the work of the post office or when the taxpayer is not at home, so it is only left in the mailbox or in front of the door of the shipment, where there is no evidence that the consignment is handed over to the taxpayer. Evidence of the receipt of the consignment is of particular importance with regard to the calculation of time limits for the investment of the legal means by the taxpayer. In addition, abuse is not possible since the proposed amendment retains the solution that in the event of failed delivery of the recommended consignment, which is also the case when the taxpayer deliberately avoids reception, the tax act is considered to be delivered 15 days after the day of delivery of the mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3909	Thank you. According to the amendment, Prime Minister Lazar Krstic also reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3910	Thank you. Let me just say that within the framework of the member you have submitted the amendment, there is a provision in the last position that the tax administration determines how the acts referred to in Articles 1 to 10 of this Article are delivered. It is absolutely certain that for those tax acts which are significant, essential, or conventional, such as those where deadlines begin, they will be provided for in the recommended mail, and for those other ones according to the assessment of the tax administration and the internal rule to be defined, they can also be made by simple mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3911	Thank you, Mr. Cross. National MP Marijan Risticevic, after the amendment, came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3912	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what I've been talking about since it was in principle. I will support this amendment since it is unacceptable that tax acts which, due to the way they are delivered in the ordinary mail, may not be delivered, those living in the interior know how mailmen deliver it, may be unsupervised, and in the meantime become judicial and cause certain consequences on taxpayers. Here we go that taxpayers are just big legal entities, entrepreneurs, etc. However, each citizen is a taxpayer and if the tax act is delivered in the manner provided for, and between these ways is delivered by ordinary mail and is considered to be delivered within 15 days of the delivery of the consignment, and that no evidence can have, in that sense, damage to the taxpayer may arise, because, unless a tax is imposed on him, other than the principal to pay and interest, in so far as the shipment could not even be obtained. The postman is not even bound by such a shipment to deliver or control it. So, the mailbox can be opened and that shipment can disappear. You've all seen in buildings what a mess those crates are. Someone from some evil intent or from a hanging may remove that kind of shipment from the mailbox, and the damage to the taxpayer will arise. I would like the minister to explain to us that with his or her instructions or some regulation, he will rule out what the law says, that the delivery of a tax act will be done in all other ways, except in a way that it seems ordinary and considered to be delivered within 15 days. That 15-day period, I agree, is that even when you are on vacation and you are on sick leave for the taxpayers to run, but that 15-day period, especially in some parts and passive parts, in the case of an ordinary citizen, or a natural person who is a taxpayer, that part can be problematic. I know farmers who have repeatedly paid large sums of interest on tax liabilities that came from pure ignorance, because not everyone can know this law, they can't keep track of everything, they can't go online. So anyone who has two acres, 10 acres of land, etc. is a taxpayer and he is not in a position to monitor the Internet, or to see whether the tax act will be delivered to him by simple mail, to make sure that he does something about protecting some of his rights. If this stops, there is danger, even abuse of the tax administration itself, because there are a variety of people there too, so there may be some people who can, for some political or some other reason, be very mean to a certain type of taxpayers and choose the way they deliver it, so they say, you know what, we'll say to this that we delivered to him by simple mail, and no proof that he did it doesn't have to exist in the tax administration. So it's very dangerous to leave a provision that the tax act, which can be binding and judicial, is delivered in this way. So I will vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3913	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3914	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we thank our colleague Marijana Risticevic for her support, and we hope the minister will understand what we wanted to say with this amendment. So we only predict the possibility, i.e. the removal of the possibility of delivering solutions by simple mail, as it is absolutely sufficient to provide that the solution is delivered or the tax act delivered through the official person of the tax authority. Therefore, the tax authority may delegate a business to its official and thus submit a tax act to each taxpayer, and if the taxpayer refuses to accept a solution, the tax officer may register it and may, for example, be subject to a regulation. provide that such a solution or such a tax act is deemed to be served. We also have no clear explanation that this amendment is being rejected because the proposed solution increases the legal certainty of the debtors compared to the present one. So how is it possible to increase the legal certainty of the debtor if the tax act is delivered to him by simple mail? In our opinion, this is an illogical explanation. You may have been able to refuse the amendment, but the explanation you gave is absolutely not logical. We also draw attention to the fact that out of the four amendments the government has accepted are three from the New Democratic Party, and one from New Serbia, and in that sense probably Mr. Minister made a mistake when he said that all four amendments from the opposition, unless he knows that some government reconstruction will happen that we do not yet know, so New Serbia will no longer be in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3915	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3916	I just wanted to remind the minister, maybe he wasn't focused enough. Dear Ministers, you are always focused and ready to respond to all issues concerning your ministry, and just one more question – why have insurance prices increased by 45%? Can we get an answer from you at today's session? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3917	Thank you. The word was also reported by MP General Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3918	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you to consider a little further on this amendment. I'm not so deep now that he can completely replace the one that's been proposed by amendments and additions to the law. I couldn't agree more with my colleague Marijan Rističević, as he would not now criticise both the work of the post office and those of the security workers in the post office, i.e. Postman, it happens even when a shipment is recommended to sign for you, i.e. to get the postman to sign and put you in the mailbox, and you to lose that deadline that is scheduled, which you have for certain procedural actions when it comes to the date of delivery. So it's totally unclear here when it comes to the usual shipment. I believe that the tax administration will determine how to deliver the acts referred to in Article 1 to Article 10 of this article, but the question is asked – if it is delivered by a simple shipment that can really for certain reasons, how we see in all the buildings that the crates are broken, that the mail stands, that the taxpayer does not know at all that he has received any tax solution, nor can he use his right to appeal and to appeal to the administrative court, to initiate administrative proceedings. So, we have to think about not coming into a situation where someone gets a solution for a tax that may be miscalculated, and then they have no right to prove and to exercise their right to appeal, to prove that it's not such a tax, if it's believed that the date of delivery is treated the day when the tax administration delivers mail. So, I ask you that the next amendment and our colleague Susana Spasojevic, who may be incomplete in some way, because he is talking about the need to have proof of delivery, but when it comes to ordinary shipments there is no evidence, we all know that, but in the recommended shipment, of course there is evidence, but this is happening as I have already said, that anyone can sign and treat it as the date of delivery and that certain procedural actions have been going on since then, i.e. the time limit for the statement of appeal. Please let's check that again, so we don't get into a situation that... Of course, we are talking now when it comes to citizens of Serbia, we are now particularly interested in natural persons, citizens of Serbia, that they have no problem. Of course companies are going to have problems with this, because the question is, who is and how is he handing over the shipment and will he have the opportunity to file a complaint about some solutions? It is constitutionally the right of someone to complain about a solution, whether it is a solution based on this basis or on that basis, whether it is a tax solution or a solution that provides for certain sanctions for the taxpayer for a legal person. So, please, maybe you should consult with your associates, so we don't have to make a problem. We are merely suggesting that there may be a problem, and yet you are the ones who decide and ultimately make the final decision. Thank you. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3919	I thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. The People's MP Mirko Chikiriz, after the amendment, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3920	Mr. Minister, I'd like you to pay attention. We all know that citizens do not trust the institutions of the state and that it is our common task to restore this citizens' trust. In order to restore confidence in the institutions of the system and in the state, it must have an extremely fair attitude towards citizens in each segment of its operation. He must not abuse the apparatus of state power. In this case, for example, someone can be on vacation, on treatment abroad, anywhere, tax or non-existent or in a much larger amount than a really owed tax, simply the people of the post office will say – we have delivered the solution, and after a few months the citizen will see irregularities and experience the state in the worst possible way. In a procedural legal sense, there is no such thing as delivering such important acts, delivering without handing over an authorised person, or without proof of delivery. If at least it were specified in this article to make delivery to the recommended shipment, we would understand that. This is probably how the state is going to use its monopoly, using its tricks used by tax administrations before, because I'm going to tell you something, I know people in the IRS who work in second-degree solutions on tax returns, and you know what they say most often, mostly the bosses say – back off all complaints. We cannot build institutions like this and restore citizens' trust in the institutions of the system. Nothing costs that there is evidence of a tax solution received, since then all procedural deadlines and citizens do not have the right to highlight objections that they will surely highlight if this solution remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3921	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. The word has Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3922	Just to be very clear, there are tax acts like this. some non-conventional notices, which can be delivered by simple mail. All significant tax acts will be delivered to the recommended post office. It was left as a discretion to the tax administration to identify which type of act, which stands in the last position, will be sent by what type of mail. There's no one else's intention to play citizen or anyone else here. Secondly, 15 days is more than enough for the post office to arrive in any part of Serbia. The simple intention here is to do what makes sense, and depending on what kind of tax act we're talking about. As far as this notification of the electronic submission of the tax application is concerned, we are here saying that it will, of course, be posted on the internet, I do not see the problem of one such notification of the possibility of submitting tax returns in an electronic way that was delivered two and a half years ago or whenever the system is first established that it is possible to do so, but not necessarily do so, that they are delivered by simple mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3923	I thank Minister Krstic. People's MP Dragan Sutanovac came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3924	Thank you. I think that this amendment, given by fellow Chikiriz, you have to analyze it a little bit better, because from the world you come from, from the United States, I believe there's a possibility of discretion from the tax administration and that discretion is provided by law. Unfortunately, in Serbia everything that has the possibility of discretion, or discretionary decision, is very often abused. If you allow someone in the IRS to use his right discreetly to mail someone, otherwise, to put taxpayers in a position that they are not all the same under the law. I think that's the thing that, I'm saying, this is a colleague who has proposed from the authorities, I think you should accept this amendment, because we don't live in the country from which you came, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3925	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Finance Minister Lazar Krstic reportedly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3926	Two things, first of all, did not Mr. Chikiriz submit an amandan to this, and the second thing – not different people or different taxpayers will be delivered in different ways, but different acts depending on their type will be delivered in different ways, but the same type of act will be delivered to all taxpayers in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3927	I thank Mr. Krstic. Yes, we are talking about the amendment submitted by Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Branka Karavidic. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Branka Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3928	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted to Article 18 an amendment in the sense that Article 45, paragraph 1, after the word "in the time limit it determines", adds the words "which cannot be shorter than five days", and after the words "out of importance for taxation" are added to the words "and also to determine the factual situation in the control of exchange and foreign exchange and gambling". In addition to this amendment, we have given the reason that the proposed amendment prevents the arbitration of the tax authority and guarantees greater legal certainty by leaving a sufficient period of time for the taxpayer and other persons to meet in a valid and complete manner the obligation to supply the requested information and also to provide better quality work of the tax administration. The reason for the Government’s refusal of the amendment reads: ‘The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the acceptance of the amendment may affect the effectiveness of the procedure in cases where the tax administration requires the taxpayer to provide the information necessary to determine the actual situation of the importance of taxation, and that information may be supplied by the taxpayer without delay. “ We feel that leaving and precision for at least five days will not slow down the work of the tax administration. We also know that there are a lot of problems in the work of the tax administration, that certain procedures are delayed. Those who were and who are now co-dependent taxpayers know they are getting tax cuts for the previous year in the middle of the year and the tax debt for the current year also gets only mid-year or maybe even in the second half of the year. Then they have to pay back suddenly the difference. This suggests that many procedures in the tax administration are delayed and take much longer than should be for objective or subjective reasons. That there is discrimination, even with regard to the treatment of different parties. These deadlines would prevent the arbitration of the tax administration and allow the parties to have sufficient time to collect the necessary information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3929	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3930	Thank you, Chairman, if I go too far, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. Here, Mr. Minister, you have provided for this member to avoid a comfortable method of interest accounting in the future, i.e. to avoid paying interest on interest, which has so far been banned by the Law on Liabilities that were made since 1978 by respected academics Slobodan Perovi and Konstantin Obradović. But in this country, too, it really did show what I was talking about earlier. Even though the Law on Bond Relations, as a roof law, prohibited the calculation of interest on interest, the tax administration kept doing so. Then the citizens on the one hand, when they looked at the legal solution, when they looked at what an important government body was doing, experienced the state the way I talked about before. I think that's the solution and that's good. Now, we fully understand that indeed the size of the grey economy is among the highest in Europe, with Bulgaria and Romania, that even here, it is working largely on this Balkan syndrome, that the source of the budget, i.e. at the collection of public revenues, is smaller than expected, that many operate in the gray zone, and all these objectives are very clear and we support them. We know in certain states that paying taxes is sacred. Now it's just that even though the state is now increasing and the penalties, in many segments, it's getting more rigorous, it's totally fine, but I think this solution first charges the interest with the costs, and then the principal. All I'm afraid of is whether this will be detimulative or stimulating to pay taxes. I think the proposed fines are quite enough to pre-emptively act as taxpayers in time to settle their obligations. If we look at the situation in our economy, the state of internal debt, who owes everything to and on what basis, I believe that even one who, with the most honorable intentions, would do just business, justly and in time reconcile all the obligations of the state, that this will be very difficult for other economic operators. That's why I'm afraid many companies or individuals will be in a situation where they can't repay interest. This is kind of a comfort method just in another form. So someone's gonna get in a situation where they'll never be able to fully pay off the principal, and he'll get paid all the time. I think a fairer solution, given the situation in our economy and not with regard to anything else, is because we live in Serbia under known circumstances, to remain the solution to keep the order of settlement in such a way as to first pay the principal, and then the interest, and then the costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3931	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. National MP Sonja Vlahovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3932	Dear Chairman, I will not accept this amendment in the voting day, given that the current order of settlement, under which the basic debt is first charged and only then interest, remains as a part of which maltene is never charged. That was true, as counterpart Chikiriz said, when it was in effect a comfortable way. However, now that it is no longer in force to collect interest when credited to the underlying debt, it is now in force to calculate interest on the account of 100, so that this comfortary way no longer applies, since the Government's proposal to first charge the costs of the payment of interest, so the basic debt. Such a way and principle applies in all private and debt-confidential relations, so it is normal for such a principle to be applied in a public legal relationship as is the tax-legislative relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3933	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Dragan Jovanovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3934	My colleague, Chiquiriz, has submitted the same amendment as I have. Also, I believe that order should remain as it is in the applicable law. This order survived some 11 or 12 changes in the law and what my colleague Chikiriz said, I find extremely justified, to charge the principal first, and then to pay the interest and the cost of forced payment. I understand the government's explanation. It's clear to me that even big firms are trying to calculate tax evasion, and that's something I understand that the government is trying to prevent, but what I'm afraid we can indirectly do to these people is to damage a bunch of physical faces too. I would also like to remind the viewers who are watching this TV broadcast, and all of us MPs, that the costs of forced payment are 5% of the total amount due. I'm afraid we're going directly to the so-called. the comfortable method of calculating interest, and what is more important, and what I mentioned on the Finance Committee, is that I asked the representatives of the ministry to make a statement, whether we are discussing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration and whether this amendment is fiscally neutral, and whether it means, Mr. Minister, that with this adoption of the amendments, there will be a significant increase in budget revenue and that they should have followed both certain amendments and some other laws. So once again, I ask you and the MPs to simply consider and try to do it because of the crowd, because these are millions of taxpayers who are like natural persons, affected by these changes to try to find an adequate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3935	Finance Minister Lazar Krstic reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3936	To be very clear in response to this, the order of settlement was normal, and when I say normal, I think first the cost of payment is settled, then the interest, and only then the principal, as always, and even in the bank when the credit is taken, until 2010, is then changed to the current version, has not since the beginning of the existence of this law since 2003. To be clear about what's going on here, I said, I understand the problems of indifference, but the problems of indifference need to be solved, not on the income side, but dealt with in adequate ways. There are cheap credit lines, lines and different other lines that we have allowed businesses to have low liquidity, drop inflation, and we hope that the interest will fall, when it comes, when conditions are created for that. It's easy for someone with tax obligations or any other obligation to take credit and pay taxes. Under the existing system, it means that interest never reaches and puts an unequal position on an orderly obligor. So, not ignoring the fact that we have a large number of non-equity entities who also owe for taxes and other different things in the economy, because I still have to say that we owe a little more to focus on those who respect the law, not on making exceptions and making it easier for those who don't respect it. What we've seen in practice is that if you pay off the basic debt in this order that is regularly in the law, interest stays there forever to hang, because people just don't think it is, they think they've paid off the basic debt and that's it. This interest shouldn't have been done, tax is treated as the least fake supplier, which can't be the case and shouldn't be the case. Third, there were reasons when the comfort method of interest was calculated, and now that it has been calculated normally since 1 January 2013, there is no reason to retain this current system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3937	He answered the words following the amendment, Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3938	Dear Ministers, none of us, nor me, nor my colleagues, Chicago, are in the interest of protecting anyone who doesn't respect the law. What I would particularly like to point out is that it is in our interest as the People's MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the interest of helping some failed businesses, and here we were talking about amending the Law on Privatisation, about companies in restructuring, about raising them. I'm afraid in a way like this, that they simply will never be able to pay off their obligations. Just now, Mr. Risticevic mentioned registered holdings, agricultural holdings and everything else. If a man, not with intent, but out of short notice, is too late to pay a tax on property or something like that, that he can get into a serious problem and be easily charged, that obligation almost doubles, and only in that part was our concern, and therefore I have submitted an amendment to keep the order as it is in the old law, to be the principal, and then the interest, and only then is the cost of the charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3939	Minister Lazar Krstic picked up the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3940	And no one argues that it is necessary to help those companies that can get away with paying off their debts, either according to the tax administration or to other creditors. I don't think we should do it again, by doing it, let's call it on the income side, by trying to change the system and collapse the system, to make it easier for some, because then that means that we put those who settle our obligations in an unequal position. Simply, that is why it is necessary to define the resources, to decide specifically when we talk about firms in restructuring, what is the plan, what are the deadlines and how much resources are needed, in order to define and give them where we can do it and where it makes sense, to make those companies that are possible to reconcile their obligations, not to turn upside down systems, to make it easier for some without a clear opportunity to even see the consequences or effects on individual companies. Of course, the effects on the budget of this is not significant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3941	Thank you. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Branka Karavidic together submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3942	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted to the same member a slightly different amendment and we suggest that a new position of 6 is added after Article 5 – in the case where, on the basis of the wrongly calculated tax, or interest, a higher amount is paid than the one the taxpayer owes, the amount of the subscription can be used to settle other tax obligations. The proposed change creates a legal framework for resolving the situation where, by failing the Tax Administration, the taxpayer paid the wrongly to calculate the tax in excess of the one otherwise owed by the taxpayer, or when he paid the interest that was wrongly charged, whether because it was calculated by wrongly charged tax, or because it was the only one miscalculated in the amount greater than the taxable person's duty to pay. In such situations, the proposed change allows the taxpayer to use more paid funds to reconcile other tax liabilities. The adoption of such a solution specifically addresses the problem for which the Protector pointed out and made a recommendation to remove irregularities regarding the application of the comfortable method of calculating interest. The proposed change guarantees protection of the rights of taxpayers in cases of failure in the work of the Tax Administration and also creates a framework for easier and more effective removal of such failures. In an explanation of the Government which rejects this amendment, it is said - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amendment is proposed by the amendment contained in the provisions of Article 70. Tax code and tax administration. In fact, any subscription, even on the basis of the wrongly calculated tax, can be used to settle obligations on the same basis that they later achieve, or to settle the second tax on a second basis. I would add the interpretation that we held when we proposed this amendment, because the proposed amendment refers to situations where the failure of the Tax Administration miscalculates the tax or miscalculation of interest. The solution provided for in Article 40 does not explicitly regulate such cases, but could come to its possible application by interpreting the Tax Administration, and we are not sure that this interpretation is always for the benefit of citizens, or taxpayers. The Citizens' Protector's Report sets out examples of the conduct of branches that speak of an unequal interpretation of the rules and thus of their unequal application. For this reason, we believe that it was necessary to specify, formulate the members and create opportunities to effectively remove the impediments to the work of the Tax Administration, without additional burden on the administration and the debtor, especially in cases where a comfortable method of calculating interest has been applied. We know that there was a problem that the Constitutional Court's decision abolished this method of calculating interest and that the Tax Administration had informed that it had stopped this way on 1.1.2011, and in fact this method of calculating interest was used by 1.1.2013. To prevent these situations, we have proposed this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3943	Thank you. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Branka Karavidic. Is anyone answering for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The National MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric jointly submitted the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Branka Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3944	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted to Article 37 an amendment to add after Article 114z the title and Article 114z, which reads – stalemate in the limitations of the right to determine and collect taxes and subsequent tax duties. I'm just going to point out how our amendment differs from the solution given in the bill. Namely, we added after Article 1(2), which says – The administrative dispute referred to in Article 1(1)(1) of the new member, is legally ending within six months of the initiation of the dispute. The proposed change results in a higher level of protection and legal certainty for taxpayers, as court disputes persist inappropriately long and in view of the subject matter of the dispute, the view is that the administrative dispute should be based on the principle of urgency, i.e. it should be brought to an end within six months of its launch. The reason for the government's refusal is that the amendment is not accepted because the law governing the tax procedure and the tax administration cannot limit the duration of the administrative dispute, given that the administrative dispute is in the jurisdiction of the court, not the tax administration. I must supplement our argument and state that, by respecting the Government's opinion, we mention the example that the current Labour Law contains a provision that provides for disputes before the court regarding the protection of labour rights to be brought to an end within six months. We note that the Labour Act does not regulate the work of courts, but contains such a provision. The proposed amendment would have been adopted to represent a lex specialis regarding the duration of administrative disputes concerning the rights and obligations decided by the Tax Administration. The proposed amendment does not enter the jurisdiction of the court, nor regulates its conduct, or conduct, but aims to achieve greater efficiency in the protection of taxpayers' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3945	Thank you. I should have pointed out that the government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives felt that the amendment was not in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Dr. Janko Veselinović answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3946	Thank you. Mr Krstic, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Krstic, thinks that this argument is not correct in the legal sense. My colleague Biljana said the reason. So it's not common for some special law to specifically regulate some matter that is regulated in certain rules in some general norms, some general law. So it's not lex specialis as a special law, it's a provision that in some way represents lex specialis for that area and in that sense you could make an exception. So that legal disturbance didn't exist, because it wouldn't be as an exception to the legal system as we do. On the other hand, you would get a new quality and certainly complete this provision that, in our opinion, is not the most qualitative. Once again, dear ministers, I hope you have received information so far and will you be able to give us an answer to prevent the application of the law, or the new price list of insurance organisations that have increased prices by 45%? Will the Ministry of Finance make an act, make a decision that would delay the application of those decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3947	I thank Dr. Veselinović. Finance Minister Lazar Krstic reportedly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3948	If I'm not mistaken, I think the Assembly Committee has also determined that this amendment... I'll talk about the subject, of course, unlike you. Besides, even if I wanted to talk about this other one, it's not the Ministry of Finance's intelligence, nor is it the Ministry of Finance that made the decision about it, and you know it well. As far as your amendment is concerned, and the Assembly Committee has seen the amendment and determined that it is not in agreement with the Constitution and the law, so I think that's confirmed the argument that we have given as Government in response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3949	Thank you, Mr. Cross. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3950	Dear Chairman, I would ask you in the future that we still stick to the agenda and stick to the agenda, not to ask what comes to mind, because then you would really create a complete chaos in this House. I can agree with the applicants of the amendments because I personally advocate that the deadlines related to the administrative dispute are shorter, that the administrative dispute itself is taking place faster, that these proceedings are not being conducted, but it is really problematic to ask that we make such a single law an exception only for the tax procedure, and that, for example, some other administrative disputes we have provisions that are quite different. We cannot create such chaos in the administrative process itself. So we can say that by some other law, which normally regulates that area that is very important, that we really regulate it, but this is unacceptable for a simple reason because the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration can't regulate this and it's perfectly normal that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and legislatory has declared it unconstitutional. It's just that something like this can't be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3951	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac and MP Djordje Stojsic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Branka Karavidic together submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic-Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3952	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted to Article 40 that, in Article 123 following Article 2, a new position 3 is added: "in the context of certain ground control procedures prescribed by this law, a tax controller may only carry out certain actions authorised by the solution and which may be carried out under his professional training and work experience. “ In that case, attitude 3 so far would become attitude 4. The proposed change creates conditions for the more efficient operation of the tax administration to involve tax controllers in the field control process, by requiring their powers to move within the framework of the professional training and work experience they have, thereby preventing the possibility of errors in the work of the tax administration. In view of the fact that tax controllers with medium professional training, without prior experience in field control procedures, should be precisely defined by the limits of their powers. The government rejected this amendment with an explanation: The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the scope and complexity of the work tasks of certain calls are not governed by this law. This law only regulates titles, while the classification of jobs in the title and description of jobs is governed by the Act on Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs in the Tax Administration, as prescribed in Article 196j of the position of the 4th Act. I have to add that article 169 has been arranged to call tax officials in the basic functions of the tax administration, so there are certain tax controllers as well as tax officials with medium professional training. Article 169l regulates the calling of tax officials in other functions of the tax administration. Given that I am the real difference between basic and other functions and that tax controllers carry out tasks from the basic function of the tax administration with medium professional access, I propose an amendment, and given that they have not previously carried out field controls, we wanted to achieve a higher degree of security for the taxpayer, and also to prevent possible failures in the work of tax controllers. In fact, you, Mr. Minister, said in the opening statement, and that was in the principle that 400-500 employees, who have worked so far to enter data into the administration because of the informative modernisation of the work of the tax administration, have now become redundant and that they will be produced into tax controllers and be directed to the field to work. Since they do not have adequate expertise and have no working experience, and very often it has happened in the field to show that they do not have a culture of behaviour in relation to taxpayers, who, by paying taxes, finance the work of all of us here and also tax controllers, we believe that we should still limit their competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3953	Thank you. Finance Minister Lazar Krstic reportedly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3954	Thank you. It is clear in Article 169j, paragraph 4, that the internal act of the tax administration will systemise what tax controllers can do and what their activity is. What did we want to accomplish? This is what I was talking about, that we're handcuffing ourselves. Fiscal account, fiscal account control, whether or not someone issued a fiscal account. He shouldn't have a college man, like he's had to do so far, to check if someone's issuing a fiscal bill. I'm not going to let the law say that someone needs to have a college so they can check if a fiscal bill is issued, because I'm seeing it as an obstruction of what is actually a tax administration's business. I understand the reaction, and I agree that in many domains the state has not provided services to citizens, but does not apply in an adequate way. Also, to be clear, no one likes it when it comes to control. We see how we behave when the current is cut into some kind of domain. What's essential is that we don't think it's the tax administration and that tax officials, tax controllers are the ones who are evil and who always make mistakes. It happens very often. They work for all of us, for the citizens and for all those who pay taxes legitimately to control right. If someone doesn't work properly, that someone can through a disciplinary procedure and everything else be sanctioned, but let's let ourselves be able to check whether people issue fiscal accounts or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3955	Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3956	I'm not in favour of accepting this, a team before that because it can't be arranged by law like this. But here, the applicants of the amendment come from one assumption, that all tax controllers are some wicked people, who come to our door and can't wait to take our property or whatever to do. Of course, in Serbia, this practice has established that no one likes that kind of control, but that is exactly the essence of the change of consciousness. If you work honestly and honestly, you're happy to welcome this man and confirm to the state and everyone that you've done honest and honest work and paid taxes to the state and that you're not in any kind of violation. Those who are trying to hide the tax should be shivering right now. With that in mind, of course we can't accept such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3957	Thank you. National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Branka Karavidic, together submitted the 42nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3958	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This amendment provided for Article 125 to amend Article 5, which reads as follows: “Excludingly from Article 1 of this Article, when the objective of field control set out in Article 123(1) of the tax inspector, under the authority of the competent court, cannot otherwise be achieved, has the right to enter into the residence of the taxpayer for the purpose of carrying out controls.” In addition to this amendment, we have given the reason that the proposed amendment specifically regulates the tax inspector's right to enter the tax payer's apartment on the basis of a decision, since it is foreseeable that it can be done on the basis of the approval of the competent court, and in cases where it cannot otherwise achieve the objective of field control, verifys the legality of the work and regularity of compliance with tax obligations by the taxpayers. The proposed amendment introduces the principle of subsidiarity and necessity with regard to the application of this measure, i.e. actions in the field control process, which must be managed by the competent court when granting the authorisation. The government rejected the amendment, explaining: “Amendment is not accepted for the reasons why it is necessary to state the reasons for its acquisition in the process of obtaining a court order and to cite them in this law. Namely, if the court finds that the reasons are not justified, it will not issue a warrant to enter the taxpayer's apartment for field control." I would extend the reasoning we have given in addition to the amendment, so that we do not question the court's conduct by proposing this amendment. The proposal for an amendment had another objective – the non-violence of the apartment was guaranteed by the Constitution by law. In addition, the field control of the tax administration is carried out in order to verify the regularity and legality of compliance with tax obligations by the taxpayer. Tax administration control can be both office and field. In view of all of this, the proposed amendment has set a limit in this regard that it is necessary to prove that no other way could have been implemented in the form of field control and that entering the apartment is the only possible way to carry out field controls. In particular, attention should be paid to the fact that the member to whom the amendment is given regulates field control in the special premises of the taxpayer, and entry into the apartment is otherwise intended as an exception. In this case, the court would have to appreciate the circumstances of the necessity of applying the measure of entry into the apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3959	Thank you. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Borisav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Branka Karavidic together submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ciric, Borisav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted together to the 59th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ciric, Borisav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted together to the 65th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3960	These are the last amendments submitted by the DS parliamentary group to the article. 65, 66, 67 and 68. I will give an explanation relating to all these amendments, which essentially concerns the amendment and addition of this law, which, with certain cosmetic changes, introduces dragon penalties, i.e. introduces multiple penalties for individuals, i.e. citizens who do not comply with their obligations. Mr. Krstic, you have become the man who raised the most taxes in Serbia in our country's history since the acquisition of the Ministry of Finance. The lawyers recently strike. We've got the biggest budget hole. Today we are trying to replace that budget gap by increasing the fines for taxpayers. I would like to have the opportunity to say that in Serbia four times production has been increased, four times the production volume has been increased, and then we have understanding and that the penalties have been increased four times compared to the existing ones. So this is how we have a situation where this little business and this few people who work, if even with a savings business, come into a situation where some document doesn't present to the tax administration, they can come under the pressure of enormously large penalties, and these are fines of up to two million dinars. This law, which we have said has been overcome, has now been subject to amendments 11 or 12. The new government, which has existed for two years, has changed it for the fourth time. We expected you to finally come up with a bill that will be new, which will be reformative, which will be modern, not cosmetically changed, and that will end any changes and additions by hitting more on the wallet of safe people who are doing their job safely, and who unfortunately come into a situation that has not fulfilled all the necessary obligations. We talked earlier about an amendment that is about to sanction those who deliberately avoid paying taxes and who transfer their business to their connected persons, to their spouses. You have not given us an adequate explanation, considering that only income is common and that the obligations are not, and under the Constitution, that is, the obligations are also common under the law. This time we think that, despite the fact that you have refused all our amendments, you are going too deeply towards criminal policy and that this law will in no way stimulate the possibility of expanding economic activity in Serbia. Unfortunately, there are things that we haven't been able to react to in the best way, but you haven't noticed either. In this situation, the bill that we have, practically, those people who do business and are registered, who do not fulfil a certain obligation, whether out of negligence, whether they stop them, whether they deliberately, can even have a lighter sanction than those people who do business and are not registered. Those people who do business and aren't registered can have a penalty for taking away the goods they're dealing with, but they can return it if they pay a certain penalty. The situation for people who work and who today in Serbia are trying to find space for any economic activity will be such that if even some document is said not to deliver, it is not all precise, they can receive a fine of up to two million dinars. I think it is an extremely high punishment in a situation where the economy in Serbia and as you can see, economic growth is back in decline, the economy in Serbia is very bad. Foreign investments in the period during which you are the minister have been the lowest since 2000. This year, in the first six months, we don't even have 100m euros in foreign investment. We have models and celebrate models throughout Serbia, but unfortunately, it is not enough to start an economy in Serbia. If we go to people who are entrepreneurs with such repressive measures, I'm afraid that we're also going to talk about small businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, that they're going to retire to some black zone, because in the gray zone, they're going to be punished, whatever, and they can get out of the black zone if they're caught with certain problems. This whole amendment to the law, I'm free to say, is bad, someone would say nakaradna. I can't accept the explanation that a security employer or a businessman welcomes the joy of a tax inspector, who needs to tour his company. I've never heard of such a thing in the world, but good. In Serbia, which you create, it will probably be. I'd like it to be that way after all. I say, unfortunately, with certain discretionary rights you give, with promises to wait for the tax inspector in music and joy, with the increased penalties you give, it clearly shows that you do not have a reform course and that what you are trying to implement in Serbia simply, for the fourth time in two years, does not result. You haven't told us why we're doing fourth-time amendments and additions to the law. We're trying to explain to you that this is bad. Unfortunately, I'm saying, you haven't tried any amendments to adequately analyze and tell us why they're all unacceptable. That will be the basic reason the DS won't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3961	National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac reportedly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3962	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want us to support these amendments that prevent the increase in fines for violations under this law. In general, Mr. Minister, you said this in the opening statement, that financial consolidation is the basis for the development of the economy and the entire society and that financial consolidation does not exist without a stable inflow of funds, i.e. without constant budgeting. With such a bill and such solutions, you do not interfere with the subjects in the gray and black areas of the economy to legalise their business and pay taxes according to real opportunities, but by increasing penalties and repressive measures you want to increase budget filling and reduce deficits. All the time you're talking about the basic objective of amending the law, which is that the subjects from the gray zone are translated into legal business. You are increasing these changes and supplementing penalties for taxpayers, instead of introducing incentive measures for entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. An increase in the number of taxpayers would certainly lead to better budgeting. Fear of punishment doesn't solve this problem. With repressive policy, you will only force a number of entrepreneurs and owners of small and medium-sized enterprises to cancel and log out their actions and businesses and to move from legal to illegal business flows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3963	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3964	Maybe I could agree with an amendment applicant who misread me, but I don't want to get into it right now. No one says you should be a tax inspector or tax control to welcome you with joy, but if you've worked honestly and honestly, it's a top-notch patriotic act to pay taxes, you'll proudly show that you work honestly and honestly. Someone here created such a system that we had taxpayers who hadn't paid taxes in 10, 15 years. Such ones may indeed have welcomed such tax inspectors with joy, for they had some soil with them, as the people would say, or the agreement, so in such a system they lived well and created empires. That's why it may take this kind of rigid punishment and rigid control. I welcome such high sentences as preventive, not to fill the budget because every time he sees how much he will pay, unless he pays the tax, I believe he will choose that option to pay taxes to the state, not to pay that kind of fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3965	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3966	Just a few facts in response, regarding the increase in penalties and these other things that have been touched. First of all, something over 200 members, these changes and additions have changed 86 members. It's not a reform act if you take and write a new law, but if you change the essence. That's what we did here. We've changed, i.e. We have amendments and additions relating to 86 members of this law. Secondly, I have said several times that the aim of this law is to increase the cap on penalties, not to charge the budget. The budget doesn't charge over fines. The budget is filled with tax collection, i.e. the elimination of the gray economy, the translation from the gray zone into legal business. We've adjusted the fines so there's no bill that if you get caught and you pay the fine, it's more worth it to keep you in the gray zone. I already mentioned that. We adapted them in such a way as to increase the fines for the most serious offenses. We have not touched the lower limits of penalties compared to what they are for several years, so that the part remains, which refers to petty violations or failures that the taxpayer can make. This law is not stimulating. Laws shouldn't be stimulating. This is a law that regulates the way the tax administration works, that is, how we charge taxes. In parallel with this, a few weeks ago, perhaps months ago, we passed laws that are stimulating and which give incentives for economic operators who may have been operating illegally, in the gray zone, to translate workers into legal business. What this law will allow, an adequate criminal policy, especially for the most serious violations and offenders, is that we have mechanisms to fight the gray economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3967	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3968	Dear Chairman, how much of the parliamentary group do we have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3969	We've got seven minutes and 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3970	The minister now spoke, gave principled answers which are in some way an object, through this amendment can be discussed in principle about this law, namely amending and supplementing the law... He said a few facts that are a state of play and that are the state of our tax system. This is the fact that you have now tried through these changes and additions to bring order into the tax system through increased repression, i.e. that taxpayers pay their tax obligations. But, Minister, you said yourself, you have two categories of legal or physical persons. Those that are in the tax administration domain and you have those that are not in the tax administration domain. Those who are not within the scope or reach of the tax administration are gray zone. Minister, you didn't do anything on the plan to translate the gray zone into a domain to be people who pay taxes. You say you've cut tax rates. Do you think someone who has learned to operate in a gray zone because some tax rates are reduced will return and function in legal flows? He won't. You have no established tax administration to disable the gray zone. Serbia is now after the 1990s a country where the grey zone grows from day to day. You don't need any reports for that. You should go to the streets of Belgrade or any city in Serbia and see that on the street is sold from cheese, bananas, sheets, car parts, everything, excise goods, ministers. Do you live in a virtual world or live in a real world? Do you know what the situation is when the question is the calming and filling of the state register and that you are now burdening taxpayers, who are in the regular system, to impose additional obligations on them, or to strengthen the criteria? It wouldn't be a dispute if you cut their tax rates and introduced the part of the person that works outside that tax system, because those who still work and pay taxes are going to fail. They'll fail, they won't be. I haven't mentioned for no reason today the fact that 45% increase in insurance prices. That's what someone needs to pay for. He also needs that bakery owner, and he needs that owner of some craft shop to register his vehicle. Because of the monopolies behavior of insurance organizations, which you say you're not in charge of, so who's in charge? He's the Minister of Business, isn't he? Someone's in charge. Is someone in charge, or is no one in charge? I'd like you to pass it on to the Prime Minister to see who's in charge and ask him for this price hike. This is about a particular problem that our parliamentary group is dissatisfied with the fact that you haven't done enough so far, to say enough, to prevent a gray zone that destroys regular taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3971	I thank Mr. Veselinović- The Word has a National MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3972	The Honorable Chairman, there is obviously a mix of grandmothers and frogs here, as the people would say. The gray zone was created by the most amazing tax laws that some previous furniture had brought, and that's why today we're growing so-called. The gray economy. Such penalties are not directed against people who, of course, already pay taxes, they will always pay them. This is directed against those who are just in the gray zone, precisely those tax reliefs, which the minister was just talking about. They have a choice, they can take those tax breaks to get into legal flows, and if they don't, they'll pay this kind of fine. It's quite something that's normal. That's why I'm in favor of getting this much punishment. He who has paid taxes so far will regularly settle his obligations to the state and will be safe. I'm sorry there's such a gray zone, but you know what, someone in the past has passed such destimulative laws for the economy, so it was quite logical for people to make such a gray zone. I hope that in some future period, through various tax reliefs and better tax laws, she will also fight back, and this is among other things, one of the measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3973	Thank you. Parliamentarians Goran Ciric, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the amendments together. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Goran Ćirić, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted together to the 67th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Goran Ćirić, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac jointly submitted to the 68th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Goran Ćirić, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 69th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Goran Ćirić, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac jointly submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 3rd July 2014, starting at 1600 hours, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 5th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-03-0.u3974	Dear People's MPs, before we move to decision-making on the agenda points of this session, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 154 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163 against – seven abstentions – there are no votes, six out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendments of the People's MPs Aleksandr Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać and Branka Karavidić, who together submitted to the members 4, 22 and 47, as well as the amendments submitted jointly by the MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric to Article 25. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Stojsic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 MPs from the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 176 MPs out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korac and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 MPs out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 177 MPs out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac and MP Djordje Stojsic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 MPs out of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac and MP Djordje Stojsic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 MPs out of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korac and Branka Karavidic together submitted the 14th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 MPs out of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 178 MPs out of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korac and Branka Karavidic together submitted the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 MPs out of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 178 MPs out of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 179 MPs from the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, no one, with abstentions, voted 169 out of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric jointly submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Branka Karavidic, together submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 174 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac and MP Djordje Stojsic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 174 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Branka Karavidic, together submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 174 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Branka Karavidic, together submitted the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 174 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 176 out of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Goran Ciric, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 59th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 181 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Goran Ciric, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 65th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 179 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Goran Ciric, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 180 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Goran Ciric, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted together to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 182 of the 184 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Goran Ciric, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted together to the 68th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Goran Ciric, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted together to the 69th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 182 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Goran Ciric, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted together to the 70th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 183 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of 86. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – 12 abstentions – there are no, three of the 185 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have made clear on the amendments and on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of the date of its publication, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, v – 12, abstention – none, voted four, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for elections and resolutions, i.e. the termination of office, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(2), paragraphs 12 and 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority, holds most of the votes of all the MPs. In view of the fact that no amendments have been submitted to those acts, as referred to in Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – no one, abstentioned – none voted 15, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 12th point of the agenda – I would like to put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the public prosecutor's office in the main public prosecutor's office in Leskovec, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 177, no one, abstentioned – has voted eight out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE COMPETITION OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 181, no one, abstentioned – has voted four, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION TO SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the appointment of the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 184, no one, abstentioned – has voted two of the 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to the vote. As we now move to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international agreements, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on the draft laws. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a COURT OF COURT AUTHORITIES OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION (PRODUCTION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AUTHORITIES) BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Treaty (Improvement of Justice Authorities) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted seven, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Armenia on the avoidance of Double Taxation in relation to income tax and property tax I place on the vote of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, ever voted four, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the UK visa for holders of diplomatic and official special passports I am putting to the vote the proposal for a bill on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official special passports, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 183 against – no one, abstentioned – has voted two, of the 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on Saradication in the Area of Defence I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on co-operation in the area of defence, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 185 against – no one, abstentioned – there were none who had not voted, of the 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Saradics in the Area of Defence I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation in the field of defence, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted one of 184 MPs, for – 183 against. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Military Saradning I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on military co-operation, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, has voted eight, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We are moving to the 8th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Saradism in the Area of Defence I am putting to the vote a bill on the approval of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on co-operation in the field of defence, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 176, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Saradjana in the area of defence I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the field of defence, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, no one, with abstentions, voted 12 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Memoranda on Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations, which provides the resources of the United Nations in Lebanon, I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations, which provides resources for the transitional forces of the United Nations in Lebanon, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 181, no one, with abstentions, voted four of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Thank you.
