ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 113 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 150 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3155	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is being raised as a very important issue these days as to the issue of disputed doctorates and the issue of accreditation of certain higher education institutions, which have been issued by these PhDs, that is to say, on which these calls have been acquired. In fact, a few days ago, we had an opportunity to discuss this subject in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the Committee on Education and Science. However, we did not get all the questions then, unfortunately, for several reasons. One reason is the fact that Mr. Mica Jovanovic, who was also a man who was in some way the subject of the discussion on the committee, was before the University Association. Those issues concerning the government and which I will refer to the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, as well as the Prime Minister, concern the fact that the credibility of a university, which is Megatrend University, is seriously at stake, and that the fate of students studying there is thus seriously at stake, and that the credibility of higher education in Serbia is thus seriously at stake. We therefore ask Minister Verbic if he will take advantage of the opportunity provided by the Law on Higher Education to apply for an extraordinary review of the accreditation of this higher education institution, or Megatrend University, under Article 16(7). The Law on Higher Education, under which the accreditation procedure is conducted regularly within five years, and exceptionally at the request of the Founder's Ministry, or the higher education institution itself? So will Minister Verbic use this right to apply and initiate an emergency review of this university's accreditation? I point to a few facts that contribute to that. The first is that it is also disputed to call the university's rector, the university's recent rector, and its acquisition of the doctorate's calling. The question is whether his doctorate is valid, a doctorate allegedly acquired in England, as well as whether his second doctorate, which he allegedly has, has, has been certified, or confirmed in Serbia, since, as far as we know, he was acquired after the break-up of the SFRY. In addition, the need for special extraordinary accreditation, i.e. the review of accreditation, also goes to the fact that the committees that were in favour of defending some doctoral thesis were also people from abroad who did not know the Serbian language and who could not determine whether these papers were written in accordance with the rules that deserved a doctoral work. The question arises whether people such as Mica Jovanovic, who did not meet the conditions for such work, participated in these commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3156	Thank you. The word is Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3157	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, I ask my question to Finance Minister Lazar Krstic and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, which refers to a protest he was in the municipality of Kula these days, or yesterday. Unsatisfactory farmers from Sivac, Kula, Krustic, Lipar and Crvenka gathered yesterday with their tractors outside the Kula municipality building unsatisfactory that the state plans to give the state country to use Arabs at a minimum price. Farmers are looking for an answer to the question - why did the competent ministry decide that 3,334 hectares of national orctares in this municipality are exempt from the bid towards the right to rent cattle and the owners of the bay systems? The state plans to rent state land to the Arabs for 20 years at a minimum price. The finance ministry will rent more than 3,000 hectares in the long term to partners from the Arab Emirates, the arena will be 100 euros per hectare. Our couples paid a lot more of that rent. They say it was over 300 euros. The Emirates have been given the opportunity to choose the country they want to use for 20 years. Local farmers have to bid this land every three years. If their doubts are realized, they will not have these opportunities further, so they ask the authorities not to allow the country to be denied to domestic farmers because they will not have the existence. Two weeks ago, these couples were at the Ministry of Agriculture and did not receive any information, as they were explicitly told by the Ministry of Agriculture that it was managed by the Ministry of Finance, or Minister Krstic. That's why I'm asking Minister Krstic's question -- what else does he think he's going to take the couples from the municipality of Kula, and will he advise them on what to do, since some farmers took the loans knowing that they might get that agricultural land further to use, and simply in September and October these contracts are broken down? According to him, farmers have the knowledge that foreigners can buy other land through their companies, i.e. Emiti, they want to buy some of the land that is owned by AD Baka, over 2,000 hectares, which would have put the company into bankruptcy, and about 120 people would have lost their jobs, which, of course, threatened the existence of the inhabitants of the municipality of Kula. So in my parliamentary question, I ask Minister Krstic and Prime Minister Vukic to answer me what will happen to this state land, will our pair really be denied 3,300 hectares of their country, what contracts have been made with Emirates in the territory of the municipality of Kula and what will happen to the agricultural property of the company AD Baka in Sivac?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3158	The word is Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3159	My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament have a question for Minister of Agriculture Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. My question concerns when changes and additions to the water law will take place, given that we adopted the Water Act in this House on 5 May 2010. In my opinion, and in the profession, this law is not good and is largely responsible for the consequences of the catastrophic floods that have hit us. It is not good because he transferred the responsibility for the defence against floods to municipalities, and municipalities in Serbia have neither the capacity nor the professional, technical, nor the least financial capacity to do the job that has given them the 2010 law. The other problem with this law is that it has in an unnatural way divided rivers along municipal borders, not plums. The third drawback, very important, is that there are no sanctions that must be clearly defined and sharpened. The urgency, change and addition of the Water Act is necessary and parallel to the resolution of the consequences of the floods, in my opinion it is necessary to speed up the work on the adoption of a new law. The second question, is it also for the Minister of Agriculture when the anti-urban protection law is being drafted? Farmers in villages across Serbia fear for their orchards, for their crops because of the lack of this law, and we do not have enough anti-urban missiles. I would also have a third question for Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic, but I think this issue can be addressed simultaneously to Mr Antic, Minister of Mining and Energy. In Serbia, there is a water-based information system in which there is no data on streams. That's one piece of information. On the other hand, geology experts say they regularly tour the field and that there are some 30,000 slides in Serbia, according to their records. It's clear after a month of flood that people were building in the roots of the streams that they now went straight through their house. My question is, if we have data on how geologists claim, how is it possible that something like this happened to us? Will the competent ministry and agriculture and energy and mining take measures against the authorities responsible for this situation? What exactly will the Ministry of Mining and Energy do in order to have in the water-efficient information system complete flow data. I'm saying all this because these catastrophic floods are over. We will feel the consequences for many more years, but none of us can predict whether they will happen again and therefore we must be prepared with both legal solutions and with other concrete moves, in order to meet them in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3160	The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3161	Thank you. Two issues, the first of which is for the interior minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the second concerning him as Secretary General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, I ask the interior minister -- how and will he respond to the fact that one of the ministry officials, Rodoljub Milovic, has been accused and that these accusations of the character of his work have already been fulfilled by the media? So, what's the management gonna do to give you real information on what this is about? I don't want to see this case going through the media again and commenting on the statements of politicians or those representing institutions, because I think, as in many previous cases, it's a serious matter, that one man has been charged very clearly with acts for which criminal charges are also raised very clearly. If not guilty, then Serbian citizens should be informed of what is being done, so as to give a clear message that he is not considered guilty. If he's guilty, we also need a clear message about who's in charge of raising criminal charges. I'm asking this of the Home Secretary because one brief and clear piece of information about what the law requires the Minister to do would help, that if a man is innocent, he doesn't go through the mud, tar and feathers, and if he's guilty of knowing that there's some kind of investigation in the process. It's not good to run investigations through the media. It's a good thing we all have information, but this is the case I think is primarily damaging to the Minister of Interior and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then to all of us in general. The question is, is it the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I'm asking for an answer on the composition of the Security Service Coordination Bureau? We also know how the National Security Council and the Bureau were founded, how it was changed, and we know that the current Prime Minister led it. We don't have official information about the composition right now, nor do we have information on who's running this Bureau now, and it's important that we know because there are questions I haven't received an answer to, and I asked what about investigations against persons based on whose actions, based on whose promises under the allegations are, say, security assessments on the cancellation of some events and public gatherings, such as gatherings like the pride parade. When you make a security assessment, then you do it as a serious country based on serious data. It doesn't make sense that there's no investigation, that after what happened to the people around whom you have the data and that threatens the gathering, the Constitution guaranteed a free gathering of people. So, briefly and again, the Minister of the Interior to provide me with information on what he will and how he will act on the basis of the Ministry's Law in case the charges we've witnessed appear these days when the accused of serious crimes accuses someone from the Ministry of the Interior. Second, a staff of the Bureau of Security Coordination. It is public information and should not only be delivered to me as a MP asking a question, but to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3162	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3163	Respected presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, one of the biggest problems in the last two decades in Serbia is unbalanced regional development. In the past period, it has been attempted, for example, by the Law on Transfer of Budgetary Resources of Local Self-Government, to reduce workers in the development of municipalities in Serbia's territory. Turns out it was wrong. In our country, in the last two decades, the entire regions, for example Veljkova Krajina, have been emptying out, and Belgrade is becoming more and more populated. I'm asking Minister of Local Self-Government Kori Udovicki if the ministry will bring a strategy that may have results. The issue was completely neglected in the 1990s and after 5 October 2000. Europe insists on a balanced regional development within its Union. It will also insist that the same principle is respected within the members. Last week, a colleague of mine from the SPO DHSS Parliament Club asked a question about the relationship, and this is the most important issue of how we will stop the death of biological Serbia. I hope that this well-intentioned issue will further encourage Minister Vujovic, who has a sector in the Ministry of Business for Equal Regional Development, as well as Minister Kori Udovicki, to be determined to tackle this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3164	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3165	I wanted to ask one question that I think is in the interest of all my colleagues here, and that is that we have no information on whether our independent institutions and regulatory bodies received information based on the recommendations they made, specifically, the DRI, on the basis of the 2010 report, 2011, 2012, what happened to the court proceedings and whether some of them were out of date or some of them were still in progress, or some of them were never even launched in terms of violations relating to certain representatives of state institutions, ministries or even some ministers? In the debate, when we had questions like this, many colleagues did not realize why we were even talking about the fact that many actions were not finished and that many things should be called the right name. I am asking as an MP for a written notice by the DRI specifically on the 2010, 2011 and 2012 reports, do they have feedback on all the procedures that have been initiated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3166	The next question is asked by the People's MP Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the chairman, my question is for the minister of justice, and it concerns the application of the Law on the Public Note. The Law on Public Note, on Notary, is one of the very important institutions in the rule of law that we all fight for together. The law stipulates that Novi Pazar, as a city with 150,000 inhabitants, has four notebooks. However, it is much less than other cities have a relatively large population. Sjanica as a town that has a basic court and a border town has no notebooks, Tutin also, as one of the most underdeveloped municipalities has no notebooks, and Novi Pazar, a regulation under which a competition for public notebooks, notaries, is scheduled to be accepted at the competition of two notebooks. However, amendments to a rule that has not been published in the public, for some reasons, have changed that number, and only one notary is intended to be selected in Novi Pazar. My question to the minister is this: why does Tutin and Sjenica have no notebooks and why is it that the New Market in the current competition, as a city with 52% unemployed, is designed to receive two notebooks, and the amendments and additions to the same rule, which is not published in public, which is not available to the public, are intended to be just one notary? Is it a mistake or is it really meant to be just one notebook in the New Market? If it's a mistake, what will the minister do against those who made that mistake, if it's deliberately hidden that information and unreachable to all of us? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3168	Thank you. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Bojan Ziric, Dr Dragan Barisic, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Srdjan Dragojevic, Prof. Dr. Petar Škundric, Branko Djurović, Dr. Ivan Bauer. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda as soon as possible, set out in the request of 205 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, I have called for the sittings to be attended by Niksa Vusurović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Branko Drcelic, Director of the Public Debt Administration. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014, which was convened at the request of 205 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you were sent a request to hold the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014, the following is set: Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Rehabilitation and Road Safety"; 2. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A project to rehabilitate roads and improve traffic security) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Loan Agreement (Programme Rehabilitation Project and improvement of traffic security) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 4. Report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures from 1 April to 30 June 2013, with information on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures from 1 April to 30 September 2013, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds from 16 June 2014; 5. Report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures from 1 July to 31 December 2013, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending from 16 June 2014; 6. Report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2013, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds from 6 June 2014; 7. Report on the operation of the Central Register, Deposit and clearing of the 2013 values of the Charter, with the Financial Report of the Central Register, the Depositary and the clearing of the values for 2013 and the Report of the Independent Auditor for 2013, with a proposal for the closure of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds from 6 June 2014; 8. Proposal for a decision setting out the composition of the Commission for the monitoring of the implementation of the National Action Plan for the implementation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325 – Women, Peace and Security in the Republic of Serbia (2010-2015); 9. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 10. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Dubravka Filipovski, pursuant to Article 92(2), Article 157(2) and (2). 170, 192, 193 and 239. From the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to carry out: - a joint single search on the draft law on the confirmation of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Rehabilitation and Road Safety"; the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Loans and the Rehabilitation of Roads and the Promotion of Transport Security) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Loans (Process of the Rehabilitation of Roads and the Updates of the Roads of Transport) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (points 1, 2 and 3 of the Agenda); - a joint Single Review of the Act on the Law of the Republic of the Crossing of the Republic of the Republic of the Cross-Cordination of the Treaty, the Treaty on the Treaty on the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union and the European Commission's and the Republic of Serbia of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Does MP Dubravka Filipovski want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – two abstentions – no, 32 of the total attendance of 174 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're moving on to the agenda. I would like to remind you, pursuant to Article 170 and in accordance with Article 97, that, pursuant to Article 170, the Joint Single Search will be carried out unanimously by decision to carry out a joint single search on proposals for the agenda of points 1, 2 and 3 and before the opening of a joint single search. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Rehabilitation and Roads Security", the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (the Road Rehabilitation Project and the Promotion of Transport Security) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (the Road Rehabilitation Project and the Promotion of Transport Security) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Does Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3169	Dear MPs, there are three laws in front of you, and they are related to the road rehabilitation project in Serbia and the improvement of traffic safety. I sincerely hope that after today's debate you will vote these laws. I will explain in several points why they are important and why this project is important for Serbia. Serbia needs to rehabilitate, according to all the strategies we have, by 2027 5,000km of roads. With this project, therefore, with these three loans taken from the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, of course, with the participation of the Republic of Serbia, we will rehabilitate 1,100km of roads in Serbia. When we made priorities, there were 54 shares, priorities were made according to the current state of August, according to the economic viability of what we want to do and towards regional integration, or we tried to represent all these shares, that rehabilitation is being conducted on the territory of the whole of Serbia. I'll just tell you that the plan of the Serbian government is that by 2020 traffic certainly increases its participation to 8% to 8.5% in the social gross product. Today it's somewhere at about 5%. On the other hand, we are witnessing the current state of our travel network. It is clear to all of us that Serbia needs safe drivers and safe vehicles, but above all safe roads. We can't boast of safe roads today, either first or second order, or local ones. If we were to compare a little with the countries around us or the EU countries, then we would see that these criteria and these indicators are really very bad when we talk about Serbia, in the sense that, let's say, we almost characterized 70% of the roads that are relatively poor, unlike, from countries next to us, where the maximum of 30% to 35% of the travel network is in relatively poor condition. Not to mention local roads, where we can say that only 8% of the local roads in Serbia today meet certain criteria and that these roads are in good condition. Everything else isn't in good shape. When we talk about how the network is paved, Serbia is again, unfortunately, somewhere at the bottom of that scale compared to the countries next to us. We have 62%, let's say in Montenegro 64%, in Macedonia 85%, in Croatia 87%. So there's a lot to be done when we're talking about the travel network so we can even talk about any other kind of technology that needs to be developed, and that we have a good transport infrastructure. The most important indicator for which we have to do everything possible to make the road network more developed and rehabilitated is actually traffic safety. Last year in Serbia, 634 died. So there were 37,140 car accidents on Serbia's roads. Our children are also killed in traffic. The Serbian government planned to try and do everything in education by 2020, and on the other hand, traffic safety, drivers and vehicles, and that in 2020 we aim to ensure that no child in traffic does die. We'll talk for sure during the debate on the details of these agreements. What I think is significant, the Republic of Serbia will participate with 116.2m euros or 29% of the total project funds, not this year, but next year, the European Investment Bank 100m, IBRD 100 and World Bank 73.8m euros. For starters, that's it. I'm here to answer all the questions you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3170	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP named Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3171	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have three draft laws before us, i.e. three loans that are in the framework of the road rehabilitation project and the improvement of safe traffic in our country. This is about three agreements to be confirmed, which are between the Republic of Serbia and between the International Bank for Development, the European Bank for Reconstruction and the European Investment Bank. We know that the roads in our country are in very bad shape. Since I am from the north of Vojvodina, I travel from Sainta every day to the Assembly, spend about 200 kilometers in one direction to Belgrade and travel on the first row and on the second row and on the highway, I confirm that our roads are really in bad shape, and that traffic security is not talking because these roads and traffic safety are very connected. It's not just traffic safety depending on bad roads. Unfortunately, it depends on the driver and the condition of the driver, but also on the condition of our roads. So our bad roads directly affect the reduction of our country's overall economic competitiveness, as far as the economy and investment itself are concerned. As we know, with the support of the EU, the Ministry of Transport has developed a master-general transport plan in Serbia, where it is scheduled to invest around 4.6m to five billion euros between 2009 and 2027. In this master plan, some 5,000km of state roads have been taken, which have been identified as high priority state roads. It's about 50% of our roads, national roads. Annual costs, if we look from 2006 to 2011, we read that on average we allocated around 290m euros to maintain roads. When we started in 2006, around 360m euros were, and unfortunately, already in 2011, this fell to 168m euros. So, this financial situation has come up, so-called. The crisis, caught our country, and unfortunately investment in infrastructure, in infrastructure projects, our road infrastructure has dropped. Given Serbia's current state of affairs, these costs continue to decrease, and we now have the opportunity to invest a lot of funds to rebuild or rehabilitate these roads. The importance of investment in existing road infrastructure, i.e. maintaining it, is one of the important things for our country and is of great importance. That's why SMV MPs will vote for these laws. If we look at the agreements ourselves, we have three agreements. In common with these agreements, these loans are very, very favourable. If we look at the loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, here we are in debt for 73.8m euros, and the terms are - 15 years we take this loan, the grace period is five years, the start of the principal payment starts five years after the signing. As far as the interest rate is concerned, it's a six-month euribor plus 0.45%. The access fee, paid to the bank, is about 0.25% of the amount of the loan. That's 184,500 euros. This loan is where we're going to invest this money and how much money we're going to invest. In goods, works and non-consultant services and consulting services for part of the first and other projects, about 68.7m, and a third part is spent 4.8m euros. So it's about 73.8m euros in total. As for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we have a 100m-euro mandate here. The terms of the loan, the deadline is the same for 15 years. Here's a grace period smaller, three years. It's also a variable interest rate of six months euribor plus 1% margin. The fee for unused assets is about 0.5% a year. Access fee is a million euros. Here we have some additional conditions for these loans. Only with this loan are the additional conditions. It's like a minimum amount of money to withdraw 100,000 euros, then a minimum amount of early repayment, because we can pay off too early, that's one of the good conditions, that's five million euros, and the minimum amount to cancel is the same five million euros. With this loan, we've seen which roads we're going to rebuild. We have four shares. I would single out a few, as I come from Vojvodina, so these roads are important to us, because like Žabljalj – Zrenjanin, the bypass near Zrenjanin, then Ruma, the road Pećinci, the highway Kula and Vrbas, between Kula and Vraba, Srpski Miletic and Kula and the highway Ruma – Sremska Mitrovica. In the third loan, as regards the European Investment Bank, we take the same 100m euros. The same goes for 15 years. So all three loans go to 15 years. There's a grace period here for four years. This loan is the most favourable, in my opinion, because we don't pay the commission on the unused part of the funds and there's no access fee at all. But if we look at all three loans, it's about 274m euros, it's taken to 15 years, so the grace period is three to five years, depending on the loan, but we're raising these loans to very favourable interest rates. As for euribor, the current state of these loans or interest of these loans is from 0.8% to 1.3% on an annual basis. If we look at the loans ourselves, these are the most favourable loans in the last 10 years that our country has taken from any bank or state. I can only point out here that in the contributions we've seen, at this first stage of this project, they've taken parts of the highways and first-class roads. Unfortunately, they did not take second-rate roads, but we hope that in the second or third phase these second-rate routes will be taken into account, for example, from where I come from we have one road between Vienna and Bačko Petrovovo Sela, on that road can be driven only from 30 kilometers per hour instead of 80 because August is so damaged. Since these loans are very important for the economic development of the country, that we have a very good travel infrastructure, without these loans we cannot do the rehabilitation of the roads and since the loans are very favourable, so the SVM parliamentary group will support these loans and vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3172	The word has Mrs. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3173	To thank you for your discussion. Let me tell you, as far as the second row roads are concerned, there are ways of the second row. Now I will tell you everything where there are Roman two, so you have: Svilajnac three, Church – Medvedja, further, Markovac – Kušljevo, Svilajnac – Kušljevo, Braničevo – Bratinac, Mali Zvornik – Ljubovija, Ćupria four – Despotovac, Odžac – Kula, Smederjevska Palanka – Velika Plana. In any case, there are ways of the second order. What's important is that in the first year, it will be rehabilitated 210 kilometers. Speaking of Vojvodina, in the first year, that's 11 shares in Vojvodina. I agree with you on maintenance, but you should know that from 2006 to 2011 roads were maintained by getting a piece of excise duty from 6%, 8% to 20%. After that, they got subsidies. And let me also tell you, the money to keep roads from year to year, you're right, it really falls, except for 2014 where we have growth, but growth because we're taking these roads from Vojvodina, for which no funding has been provided. That's 6,000 kilometers of roads. For that reason, it's keeping a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3174	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Mihajlovic, the honourable representative of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, MPs and MPs of the SPS and DHSS in the voting day will support the draft legislation on confirming our country's agreement with international financial institutions approved for the rehabilitation of roads and for increasing the security of traffic on them. We are getting significant financial resources for the repair and maintenance of our roads because this is extremely important, given that the roads are the flow of one state, and those more important routes are the vessels of the housewives. If there's good roads in one country, then there's no leftovers, there's no, as we say, leftovers, no undeveloped ends. I am particularly pleased that the contractor of our travel routes will be a domestic company, a state-owned public company, "The Ways of Serbia". The terms of these loans are relatively favourable. There's a significant grace period, it's a long due date. With the standard interest and other conditions of this loan, we get loans, with the funds we have to repay and not so little funding for donations, so domestic labour will be hired, above all young experts. What is particularly important and what we from the SPO and DHSS support, because it is in line with our programme definition, is that the work on the travel network will cover the territory of all Serbia. This contributes to balanced regional development. This is a contribution to decentralisation and this is very important because due to long-term insufficient investment in maintenance and reconstruction, the road network today is not in a satisfactory state. Bad roads are the brakes of economic development, and this slows down and sometimes prevents the exchange of people and services. It's a defense of our country's integration by connecting with the surrounding countries. Bad roads lead to an increase in transport costs, damage to transport means, and a greater number of traffic accidents. I had a chance to travel. In almost all parts of Serbia, I was and I was in the countries in the environment and only Albania, I think, has a worse travel network than we are, but they are now working rapidly to build a highway connecting the Albanian-Adriatic coast with the interior of the continent. A relatively good road has been built connecting Shkodra and Tirana. Indeed, there is a difference, to our damage, when, for example, from Hungary, from Croatia, Republika Srpska, enters the territory of Serbia, you immediately feel that the pathways of poorer quality, to drive slower and not safer. Because of this condition of roads, there is a large number of traffic accidents that lose human lives, especially lately, and a large number of young people are suffering. We've had a time of trend, after the adoption of the Traffic Safety Act, a reduction in the number of car accidents and deaths. In the last two years, however, the trend has shifted again and the number of victims has increased again. These funds amounting to over 270m euros are significant. I think it takes much more control of the quality of the work done, the funds spent. Minister Mihajlovic is indeed characterized by activistism, dynamism, and it is great that, immediately after taking office, she visited a number of the works, where these works are late, that deadlines have been broken. I would especially point out your involvement after these catastrophic floods, when you visited all those critical points, where there have been numerous road damages, overpasses, bridges, have already been prepared or are working on plans to rebuild these routes. I am sure that during your term of office there will be no certain abuses that characterized the previous period of working on certain roads ahead of the elections, especially if local elections are held in some places. Then the funds are allocated in that environment, so it's fast-tracked on the roads. So, not according to the real need, not according to priorities, but where some early elections are held, so if they're in that place, then operatives are hired and something is done for the sake of getting votes. We have to admit that Serbia has bad roads at the moment. We hope that it will be changed, that it will be better, because a significant number of these roads, even those states have outdated shares. I was fraternized by the fact that, say, two-fifths of our paths have Augustes of the fraternists or it's about the earth's roads. So they don't even have those most standard elements of vertical and horizontal profile. I made sure that you were on site controlling how the works were done, that you spoke to representatives of all domestic construction firms and foreign companies engaged in the work in our country, that they were no longer delayed, that deadlines were not broken. We have a case that no deadlines are observed on those most important routes, that there are huge delays. So late work on Corridor 11, at Corridor 10, on a bypass around Belgrade, on a road trip from Kragujevac to Lapov. For example, this part of the road from Lykovec to Ub on Corridor 11 is 12.5 kilometers long, and it's been built for four years. That's what you've been saying. It means that every year you build three kilometers. If we wanted to make a road from Belgrade to the border with Montenegro, according to the Adriatic, if we were to build a road full of profile in 300km, if it were built at this rate of three kilometers a year, then we would have finished that highway in 900 years. I hope that's not how it's going to be, and that with the construction of the roads, everything that makes the infrastructure. So in 2007, we built a tunnel in Ovčar Banja at the Ibari Master's Office. It was the first tunnel in Serbia to be built after a full 17-year period. I don't know if we built another new tunnel after 2007. A visit to Belgrade is being built for 24 years. That means one kilometer is being built annually and the question is when will that bypass be completed? We have heard many promises that it will be over. It's constantly announced, it's constantly prolonged, it's been claimed to be over before the deadline, but not only not in the promised deadlines, but in those shifted and many other deadlines. Since 2008, about 200km of roads have been built in Serbia so far. It's only 50 kilometers of highway. When it is divided by the number of years of that minister who, for six years at the time, was headed by a resolute minister, it turns out that less than 10km of highway was built annually. To make the irony bigger, lack of money was not the basic reason Serbia today has not completed its highway to, say, Corridor 10. The railways of Serbia, the Corridors of Serbia, the Roads of Serbia, have been granted funds, loans worth more than 1.5 billion euros have been granted. However, some 300 million were used. Because of these undrawn funds, which have been approved by international financial institutions, Serbia must pay for the penalty. Only "Serb Railway" paid several million euros for it, not to mention the affairs that were in the previous period concerning the arrest of Nibens Group owner Milo Djuraskovic or Borovica who owned several road companies that are now in the blockade. Of the 29 companies, 15 are in a blockade. I hope, since this road traffic is a dominant form of transport in Serbia, because 80% of goods and 74% of passengers are transported in this way, that it will come in order and I am sure you will commit yourself to developing other forms of transport, above all the river that is cheapest to exploit the waterways, but not by this channel that will not be built, and one minister spoke of it, from Thessaloniki via Macedonia, via the ravine. Instead of exploiting existing river routes and developing and building airports. We have practically one single airport in operation. This is “Nikola Tesla” Airport. There's one in Nis. I'm sorry that that nick wasn't a little bit used anymore. I don't know if one plane lands a week. A colleague from Nis can say more about the use of Constantin the Great Airport. I'd like him to be much more in office, too. Not just now over the summer when those season lines are opening. We need other airports. I'm a little out of the picture here, but I have to point out that it's necessary to continue the training of the "shipmen" airport at the King's, so that these airports are also equipped for domestic and international air traffic. This will contribute greatly to passenger fluctuations and economic integration because this is how people have to come, foreign investors in Belgrade. They will reach Belgrade faster. It may take them two hours to get out of the farthest parts of Europe, but then it takes them five or six hours to drive to Prythe to see the car factory in that city, whether it can be invested there, made or in Novi Pazar, if anyone's interested in connecting with that end. We know how long it takes for people to tie up. They told me in Zlatibor – it's not worth everything we have in tourist facilities. In order to attract foreign tourists and tourists from the region, we must have a good road, that Ibar highway, if it is not the highway and if it is not near an airport that will be able to serve as a reception of tourists. That this can be done by example are countries from the region. Croatia, which has twice the population of Serbia, has four million inhabitants and has nine airports in Osijek, Zagreb, Split, Dubrovnik, Rijeka, Zadar, Brac, Losinj, Pula. Romania, also a neighbouring country, a country that was once in economic and other terms and in terms of traffic far behind Serbia, today has 17 airports. Near Belgrade, there is an airport in Temisvar. There's an airport in Arad 50km away. Bucharest, the capital has two airports and many other cities. Not to mention Greece, which has 40 airports today. It has only a little more population than Serbia. Of those 40 airports, 15 are international. It is impossible to develop tourism on our mountains and in spas and lakes if we do not have good roads, quality and fast railways and if we do not have airports. Croatia is a good example. Croatia has almost built a network of highways. It connects east and west, north and south of its country. There's a road through Slavonia. There is a highway from Zagreb to Istria. Do you know what it means when you arrive from the metropolis in an hour and a half at sea? You've been in the river for so long, Opatija. Croatia built the so-called so-called "Dalmatina highway" which connected Zagreb with Split. That's a long way to go. It's building towards Dubrovnik. The logical solution is built on both sides. They connect and connect. At the same time, no one is damaged because they live beyond the capital. What did Croatia gain by doing so? A lot more tourists. A lot more investors. The price of real estate has been increased in all coastal areas. More than Zagreb is not traveling for eight hours but only three hours to the seashore. They're all benefites that build quality roads. I am sure that these funds that we are now receiving will be used in the right way and for the benefit of all citizens, and your work at the beginning of the mandate seems to be a guarantee to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3176	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3177	Just a few comments. When you talked about projects and being late, I must say that almost all projects are unfortunately late except for one. One project is not only late. It's the Zemun-Borch Bridge. Everything else is late. That's not good. It's not good for economics and traffic. It is not good for all these pens, which unfortunately Serbia is paying back. The ministry has appointed mentors from the Ministry, people employed by the Ministry, each individual in charge of a particular investment and we try every day, not only to talk to performers and monitors but to see where the problems are. For example, the problem at the Iron Bridge, etc. Let's realistically see what we can speed up. That's the Ub-Lykovac you mentioned in four years 12 and a half kilometers. That's a serious problem. So, one minute things have to end, and even at the cost of maybe not being able to finish their jobs. If he can't, he'll find himself who can. Anyway, we took over. I sincerely hope that this year, not only on this project, we will have a rehabilitation of roads of 210 kilometers of rehabilitated roads, but we will have 50 kilometers of new roads by now. I sincerely hope at the end of the year I can stop here and say we did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3178	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has an authorised representative of the NS Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3179	Dear Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning whenever I should vote for new responsibilities, I vote unhappily and very hard. However, we are all aware that without borrowing, we cannot repair our travel infrastructure and therefore the NS Parliament Club in the voting day will support this bill. We've heard from our colleagues that these are the conditions. You wouldn't mention them. Madam Minister, I would ask you, here's a colleague who spoke before me from the SPO said that contractors would be domestic companies, and mentioned JP's "Serb Roads". To me from this text that we have received is clear that "Serbian Roads" will conduct public procurement procedures for all of these shares, and will not automatically be contractors and I would like you to comment later on, this whole story. Then, something that I am particularly interested in, which is another question that my predecessors mentioned, which is to be precise, Mrs. Minister, you tell me – how much until today the money from international loans has been used, and it's about state roads not counting highways or corridors? It would be very important for us and for the environments that we come from to be precise. Then, one piece of information I've seen in my explanation, Madam Minister, which I'm interested in, to simply get some clarification from you, and also because of the viewers watching this transmission. Here sits a large number of MPs who have criticised our president Velimir Ilic, and here you have now given information that he is, for example, In 2006, when he was a road minister, he invested 360m euros in road maintenance. In 2011, this amounted to 168m euros, meaning it was a drastic decline. Of course, someone will say that in 2010, Minister Mladjan Dinkic threw out of the budget "The Way of Serbia" excise, you mentioned it a little while ago and I agree with it, but I hope and trust your political authority that you will succeed in returning the money to the excise budget in the next budget, but in the budget "The Way of Serbia", because without that money we cannot possibly maintain the travel network at a satisfactory level. We can do it this way, I call it occasional fires. It's something that, after all, is reasonable and good, because we don't have a choice right now. But in order to maintain our roads in quality, without real sources of financing the road network in Serbia, we will have roads like this, and we all come from different backgrounds and we are aware that they are unsatisfactory. I would mention that we have specific state roads, or what is called, regional roads that have been state since the 1960s, as one road between Topola and Raca, which is mostly on the territory of the Rač municipality between the village of Saranova and Donja Trnava, which is a country road, and the state road since 1965 or 1966. He never even won a full macadam. That's what the army did. He's in the categorization of the second-class state route and he's what he is. What I'm also interested in, Madam Minister, is just a few more things to explain to me, for example, let's take this smallest loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, of 73,800,000 euros. If you look at page 40 of the table you gave us with the loaner himself, if I can call it that, one detail comes into your eyes, and it concerns consulting services, training and incremental operating costs. That's almost five million euros, believe me. I would like me and my colleagues to simply hear from you an explanation of what it is that five million euros is only in one loan, which is usually the smallest. Then, in the very clarification, and something about it touched at the beginning of your presentation, you said it was necessary to rehabilitate some 5,000km of state roads in Serbia itself, which I absolutely agree with. Also, we have been given the reason that the general master of the transport plan in Serbia predicted that between 4.6 billion euros and 5 billion euros were invested in rehabilitation and maintenance of the state roads in Serbia between 2009 and 2027. I'd like to hear, dear ministers, today is 2014, which means that we've already stepped very well in the realization of this master-general plan, how much money has been invested in the rehabilitation of state roads so far. I agree, we got a stock list here. You mentioned that it was 54 shares to be financed from these three loans. I can agree that regional representation is totally fine. I would like to hear from you, since the terms of the loan itself were agreed before you became the minister of traffic, or infrastructure, but probably the shares themselves are determined by the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", so I would like to hear from you how much they are subject to change? Since in the text section itself we have an explanation that certain shares of the road given to international creditors are subject to change, I would like to hear from you and what are the criteria for the individual shares to change, and who is the one who will ultimately give the final text of the shares themselves to foreign creditors? Because of the citizens themselves who are watching us, we should say that the deadline for the completion of these 54 shares in 2018 and that after the rehabilitation of these shares, Serbia will have a significantly better road network, both on highways and on the masteral state roads of first order and regional roads, i.e. second row roads. Your Honor, Madam Minister, you have a huge job ahead of you. We need to do all this in a situation where we are primarily traveling in a very difficult situation. At the very beginning of my presentation, I mentioned "The Ways of Serbia", but here my colleagues also mentioned the privatisation of travel companies themselves. Here is the question, and we would like to hear concrete answers from you – how much today our travel companies will be able to enter with bank guarantees to participate in a tender that will call "Serbian Roads" for specific shares, so that this money that will be paid by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia through these companies and remain in Serbia, so that it does not happen to us as it did on some previous lotes, etc. These stock roads, that the grocers of the works were foreign companies, and then what domestic companies only took as subcontractors? They were taking off the so-called. They left nothing but crumbs for domestic companies. These are some specific questions I've raised. Since you are in front of the Serbian government as a resolute minister designated for someone who will coordinate the recovery of the damage caused by these unfortunate floods that hit the Republic of Serbia, I would ask you a question. I come from the municipality of Topol and we, unfortunately, also have a lot of collapsed infrastructure facilities, where I would especially single out a bridge on the Jasenica River on the road between Topola and Stragar. It is individual, at least as I was informed by "The Way of Serbia", to say in all of Serbia one of the biggest damages on the infrastructure facility, so I would ask that because of some 4,000 people who were cut off from Topola because of that bridge, that the work on that roadway and on the bridge itself is speeding up, so that we could at least next school year, which is from September 1st, we could use communication and that bridge. I'd like to thank you. I hope that with your energy above all, you will manage to return to the budget of the next budget, which, I hope, will be very soon in front of the MPs, to make sure that the excise money, which is crucial, is back to the budget of "The Way of Serbia", that you, as a resolute minister, can, of course, send it away, to make the right use of it. I'd like to hear from you and the surveillance issue. Now that I mention "Serbian Roads" and that public procurement for contractors will go through them, it is very important that you tell us whether "Serbian Roads" or how exactly the supervisory authorities will be determined, because much of it will depend on the quality of the performance of the works themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3180	Thank you. Dr Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3181	I thank you for all these questions. I'll start from here, from surveillance and, of course, consulting services paid by the World Bank. They are primarily related to the design process, but contractors and supervisors will be selected by public invitation within 21 days. When we talk about performers, it will be seen that at least five performers from the geographical field are invited from the part where the roads are actually carried out. That's the rule of the bank. That's not what we made up. I think that's good. Of course, surveillance must be through a public call. When I took over my duty at the Ministry, there were a lot of projects that didn't have their own supervision or were under surveillance where no public call was made. For example, at Ub, Lajkovca we have now made a public call to be called supervision. I may not answer your questions in order, but I will answer everything. When you ask about loans that have not been used, I will tell you that the "Serb Road" amount is about 30m euros, with us already talking to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to use that money for another part of what is needed, which is a bypass, not to speak specifically about details and shares, but certainly, we will use that money. With Corridor Serbia, 300m euros have been used, and we have a 1.2 billion loan. There are definitely certain delays. As I said recently, there is almost no project in Serbia that does not record delays. To be perfectly honest -- there have been bad projects, there may have been not always good surveillance, firms that went bankrupt, etc. There were a lot of things and factors that made us late. Somewhere they're partly justified, in most cases they're not. But what's there? Now it's like that and now we're looking at how to get out without the state suffering because of it, and first of all, not to suffer the travel infrastructure that we need to function. You asked for control. What is the specificity of these three loans? The specificity is that every year, there will be control of what is done, on which shares and whether this is the quality that is agreed upon. We haven't had these kinds of loans so far when we're talking about road infrastructure. Also, you asked if these shares could change. Yeah, it's possible that they change, when we see that maybe the priority is another extra share where, God forbid, maybe there were more deaths, car accidents, etc., so that conditioned that maybe we put that stock right now, and not someone else. So things can certainly change, with one clear and large explanation of why we do it. As far as floods are concerned, the damage to Serbia's estimated amounts, I'm talking about first and second-row roads, about 40m euros, on local roads 20. The damage to the bridge you mentioned is one of the greatest damages. The deal, among other things, and the dynamic plan that we have, is that by October 1 everything is settled. The school year must begin on September 1st, therefore, I sincerely hope it will end. Just like what we're doing on the ravines roads right now. So it's a priority, no matter what. So the same thing about school year, we're going to try to do everything we can to get the school year started uninterrupted and there's no problem. If I skipped anything, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3182	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3183	Dear Members of the Parliament, Your Honor, all that we have heard so far is really looking forward to it. Especially your explanation that the public invitation will most likely involve our companies and will also run our industry. We know that in Serbia 87% of transport is carried out by road, and 80% of total transport is carried out by road. All these three loans are extremely favourable and I can say that they will be used in the right way. In the area where I come from, and this is Novi Pazar, it is especially looking forward to you taking this responsibility, because we are looking with wide open eyes at whether to solve the cancer of the wounds and the problem of our region, and this is a weak connection of Sandzak with the rest of Serbia, a weak connection and a weak road network in the region where I come from, which really stops the development of this region. All of what the predecessors have said is really something we know and we all know the importance of quality roads. We have a reduction in deaths, a decrease in numbers compared to previous years, however, the paths from where I come from are also extremely dangerous. In Novi Pazar and the end where I come from, there are a large number of people living in the auto-carrying area of Montenegro and other parts of Serbia and the region and are practically carrying goods. I'm afraid that if something is not done to improve the infrastructure in that region, these people will indeed be further threatened and development will be reduced. The new Pazar with Serbia is only tied to the Ibar highway. What I can say commendably here, and I saw in this review that you were planning to rebuild several directions, all of these are directions in Ibarska masteral – Novi Pazar-Ribarici, Raška-Novi Pazar. I am extremely pleased that 37 km of Ivanjica-Senica will be restored, which is indeed a road that is ruined, as well as the road of Prepolje-Sjenica, the region via Aljinović. However, my dear minister, the road from Novi Pazar to Sjenica, the road from Novi Pazar to Tutina is in a really terrible state and we must try in every way to do so. That's why I'm asking you a question - is this the final version of what we've got or is it still going to change? Because you know that in the past we've had a three-time initiation of the revitalization of that path from New Market to the Shadow? The worst part is from Novi Pazar to White Waters, which is practically an extremely serpentine zone and an extremely insecure zone. It is extremely important for us to tie the New Market to the Shadow, as you have announced this time – Prepolje-Senica. We also have a lot of problems in the New Market. You know we have a bypass that's been opened several times, it's been done a few miles. We've expropriated about three kilometers, and everything's ready for that bypass to be done. Another detour around the Sopocan monastery, where we wanted to meet people who live and exist there, to practically avoid noise and passing through that region, which is an extremely important region for this whole country and cultural, historical and in every way. I want to say that in the voting day, we will support these loans, because they are deep down in the possibility of developing our country, but I especially ask you to pay particular attention to this area where the roads are really ruined. We want to make a better connection with Serbia. You know that New Market is a university center, that a lot of people come and gravitate. From Novi Pazar every day, convoys move towards Serbia and in other directions. Please, if at all possible, the region, or the road to Tutina and Sjenica, are revitalised and allowed to be brought closer to other parts of Serbia, which is the second grainery and which can be the second crop of this country. Now we define ourselves and this government goes the right way, defines agriculture, defines livestock. We have to make sure that these people can be better tied up, because the only thing people in my area are looking for is a better infrastructure to start my economy, and you know in my area how much people are worth and capable of living, they're also dealing with small businesses, micro-enterprises, for any better development, we need better infrastructure. We look forward to you being the minister, for taking this job, because we have seen that you are really energetic, that you know that you are doing the job the right way and that is why I want you to pay further attention to this area and to the possibility of developing this region as well as to the whole of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3184	Thank you. Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3185	Thank you very much. You are absolutely right, we are really trying to do whatever is possible in all parts of Serbia, and especially in this region of Serbia. You know I'm also the Minister of Energy in the previous period, that I did it. When we look at this rehabilitation plan on the roads for these three loans, here we are now looking, 199 kilometers is defined for that end. Not to read now like I've read all those shares before. Of course, that's never enough. Of course, we should probably do more, but hopefully, that's our plan now, after this rehabilitation plan, to make one of the following priorities and how things move from year to year, and in that sense, we have new priorities and we end up and everything that we haven't finished. That's what I can say right now and thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3186	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3187	Dear Madam Minister, the Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, today we have before us proposals, three laws, three Laws on the Confirmation of the Agreement on the Loan of Road Rehabilitation Projects and the improvement of the security of traffic between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for 100m euros from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The good side of these laws and these discussions is that we have clearly defined objectives for these loans, per 100m euros from the European banks and $100m from the International Bank. So, without nearly 300m euros in road maintenance, because this issue is not just a matter of technical and technological, what these laws, which I think without need, look like, are adopted in the Assembly by an urgent procedure, and I think it was important that these laws, but the others that are in this extraordinary session, are considered in one more studio and one more serious and responsible way. Now that we are here, I want to say once again, I am pleased that we know what we are in debt for, but unfortunately in the past two years, Serbia's public debt with 15 billion euros is growing to 21 billion, and about six billion more public debt has not been seen in Serbia in infrastructure projects and therefore I express my satisfaction. It is clear that the Fiscal Council also points to this problem these days, which is, the rise in public debt participation in Serbia by 65% with their estimates that it will be around 70% at the end of this year. And these laws practically point to a large number of problems. I think this is a very serious state issue, not just a matter of how priorities will be identified, because each of us MPs who have come from our region will definitely advocate infrastructure projects in their cities and in our regions. I think it is very important, on the basis of which criteria we adopt the realisation of these 300m euros. We have seen in the light of all three laws, the same views practically, as they are explained in the same way, but we have seen that from 2005 to 2011, from some, on average, 360m euros separated from roads in Serbia, this amount comes to a level of 168m euros or around 290m euros on average spent on road maintenance. The citizens of Serbia at the time were not the most satisfied with this level of maintenance, it is always more, much more, and we know that for this year we have planned around 90m euros, at least that's how it appeared in the 2014 budget projection with the views of many professional institutions that have shown this several times in public performances, which is that the missing 24m euros are missing. Do you agree with that, I don't know, but some estimates show that it takes about 220m euros to maintain the quality of roads in the Republic of Serbia. We are now in debt for a longer period of time with decent conditions, of these more important institutions, at 300m euros, which should mean that this is some average level of road maintenance, therefore, necessary funding for one year. This opens the next issue and our concern about the state of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think that a lot of steps have been taken that raise this issue in one serious way, and there are some of my colleagues and current presidents of municipalities or mayors and former presidents of municipalities who remember some decisions of this government, which is that part of the income of local self-government, they have had 12% reduction in taxes and the overrun of those funds in the Niš, the original revenues of 850 million dinars, and that in return they have not made compensation with taking new responsibilities for maintaining local or regional roads, when the required budget of the "Road of Serbia" to maintain state roads is reduced and transferred to responsibility to local self-government. So, minus five billion at the state level, and minuses in local self-government budgets, and then it's normal that this will lead to a serious alarming state in maintaining infrastructure throughout Serbia. Now it's worth making up for, but it's not easy or easy. You need to think about it in such a studio way as what the priorities are. In particular, with one key question, first of all for the Minister of Finance who is not here, because it is announced as someone who will attend, with your presence, necessary and necessary here, and this is what plans are with local self-government, because I think it is an important issue, because we are talking about, not only maintaining 5,000 state roads, but security in traffic, because it is not a security issue on highways or regional roads, but also on local roads and what we all see as drivers on the streets in our cities, but also a security aspect that has not been mentioned here so far, and this is also a large number of risky points of unsecured railway crossings, road crossings, and statistics say that there are around 2,400 in Serbia, and that only less than 500 are provided. So these are some points that should also be treated in this thinking, because I think it carries many lives in Serbia, and many people in cities clearly recognize it. A colleague also mentioned Nis and in some ways invited people who participated in a project to build then important infrastructure facility, such as Nis Airport, which is because it is one of the options that provides opportunities to encourage a cluster of projects, and now we are touching the importance of these laws in relation to incentives and local and regional development and in general the relations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards decentralisation and strengthening local self-government and regional projects that can encourage the development of all parts of Serbia. Since I am from Nis, I am thinking about all of southern Serbia, I think it is important to identify these priorities and how these pairs are realised, about 300m euros, and to think very important about how the most effective and level of development will be encouraged, but also about maintenance, this demographic responsibility for the whole of Serbia and, of course, security responsibility. The mention of important projects such as the Stara Planina and the development of tourism in the Stari Planina, should be considered on the road between Piroth and Babi's Zub, and we know the condition of this road between Književec and the arrival of the winter centre, and of course from the Niško airport to Kopalnik and Kursumlia, because we need to invest in these roads, in order to expect real development of that part of Serbia, and the reduction of population drains, because we have heard that Belgrade is being filled and at one point we will remain empty Serbia with full Belgrade and with an even greater problem in the infrastructure sense, and one of the preconditions is maintaining the road network and the way to establish these key priorities. Of course, the cluster of projects and Lake Vlasin and the possibility of fostering the development of that part of Serbia and protecting that population that will think about the rest and survival in those areas. One proposal for possible reflection for you, Madam Minister, is that, as some countries have experienced, dialogue with the largest insurance houses can be opened, because we know that the assessment of the annual damage from accidents in Serbia has been estimated at between 500m euros and a billion euros. If we are talking about maintenance logic, therefore, it is three-year maintenance needs with a 300m-euro high-rise scale. I think it's a good interest, of course, of course, to the state, out of responsibility to citizens, but also those insurance houses that have their own costs, to work together with the state on prevention, because many of the experiences of some serious countries are well-organized to invest insurance houses in the lighting of highways, with the possibility of solving exactly the most critical points in which constant accidents are repeated and where we lose dozens of lives, which is most tragic. Of course, there should also be a demand for the motivation of these insurance houses to, once again, participate in partnership with the state in these projects of solving these key points. This is the most important thing about human lives, but also about the potential risks of transporting dangerous substances through these railway routes that pass through our cities, and we know that the topic of moving these freight transports from the city of Nis is very relevant. It's important to maintain passenger traffic, but I think it's important to ensure the safety of all citizens, because I think it carries huge risks and I'm convinced that this falls under these laws, not just rehabilitation and patching holes. I think most of us think about it first. I think it's important to take care of unsecured spring crossings and I think it's important to ensure safe transport of dangerous substances that often go through our cities and our cores where we carry great risks, and each of us will have a great responsibility, unless, God forbid, bad things happen from such conditions. One of my questions at the end of this presentation is - how they were established, you said in part what criteria were in determining these priorities, I gave some of the proposals and ways of thinking, above all in the developmental sense, because of demographics, for the safety of certain parts of Serbia. I think it's important that I tell all of us and, of course, the entire public of Serbia, and I think that was one of the important reasons why we should get acquainted with the full proposal for resolution and these laws, with another emphasis on my satisfaction that we now know what we are in debt for. Serbia will pay back that money and certainly it is a debt that some of the next generations will pay back, since we have a grace period of four years and a deadline for some 15 years, and that is the level of funds that will practically be spent this year and remedied the really bad moves that have led to this. Once again, I mention a reduction in the capacity of local self-government, that responsible and resource-efficient state-of-the-art on local and regional roads, because we also had this case that many local self-governments had received an oral promise of the level of funds that could be realised in the maintenance of local and regional roads, that they had made public calls, public tenders, probably there are also witnesses in this hall from one, the other, the fifth political sides, and that they were then not supported by this amount of funds and after realised tenders to bring about the resolution and repair of conditions on Serbia's travel network. This now puts us in a position to be in charge for the next 15 years, we deal with this required annual level of 300 million funds, and then we ask ourselves what next year, because I think this is the key issue of stable financing, sustainable financing and maintenance of the road network in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3188	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3189	Thank you very much. I fully agree that funding the maintenance of the road network is one of the most important of our tasks to finance maintenance, since there has been a reduction. There was a reduction that we had one model of funding and maintenance, which was abolished in 2011. So you're not taking any more than excise. When we look at the countries around us, they're just doing it out of excise duty. We'll have to find, in the next period, when we say the next period, I mean in the course of this year, I don't mean in the years ahead of us, a stable way of financing and maintaining roads. You're absolutely right about that. On the other hand, local self-government has shown itself now from what I can see, even if I were to talk about the topic of the ministry that I used to run, better coordination must exist between local self-government and the state and 30%, for example, since the collection of traffic violations is poured into the budget of local self-government and should be meant to maintain roads. I'm not saying that that's far enough, because if it was enough, we wouldn't have relocated many of these roads to the Public Enterprise Roads of Serbia to do maintenance, because local self-government is simply not able to do so financially. So we've started this process, to see how we can ensure that it's more stable to finance maintenance. There's a lot of limitations. We will go out together with local self-governments with these proposals to the Serbian government, and it can happen, depending on how we do it, and before parliament, but to return to rehabilitation and the criteria you mentioned. This project has been going on for two years. For two years, together with representatives of both the World Bank and the IBRD and the EIB are working to establish the first criteria, and then to elect shares to be rehabilitated. The condition of the roads, then security, primarily the state of security on that road network on a particular stock, then economic viability when we do that, were one of the key criteria. Now I said it wasn't finally, because after a year, when this year is over and we see these 210 kilometers of what we did and what we have to do, where there were problems, if anything else has happened, we're going to change some of the shares anyway. Another important thing I would like to mention is that a monitoring committee will also be formed to monitor the rehabilitation process. There will also be people from local self-government, depending on the part where rehabilitation is done and, of course, on the implementation team of all these people who will work on this job. I think it's a very significant black spot you mentioned. We, among other things, are holding a body for traffic safety coordination tomorrow. The first item of the agenda is black spots both in the road network and in the railway. Besides, you also mentioned crossings. I have to admit, I don't get it. We have the Ministry's inspection and we have local self-government inspections. When I asked to see how many solutions were made over the past few years because the roads didn't have safe crossings, I have to tell you that that number was measured by approximately ten fingers. I don't think it's the law, the rules, everything we write. Mostly the problem is in what we really realize practice and do we really apply it in practice. That's where things change. Of the black dots that there really are many, we have defined those that are... We're going first, second, third priority, so in that sense we're going to work as much as we can in one year, as much as in the second, etc. I think we can do it from funds along with the company "The Ways of Serbia". We've already talked to them about it, and that's the other part of what we're doing right now. I've tried to try to arrange for you most of your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3190	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3191	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us today three contracts, we could call them loan agreements, the loan that the Republic of Serbia is in charge of 273m euros. The creditors are the European Investment Bank, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This is a ratification of these contracts, i.e. the agreement and the first and basic question for the minister, since the finance minister is not here today, which is why these contracts are not ratified within the deadline? On May 25th, the deadline for ratification of these contracts expired. My question to you is – why did the Government not send these contracts to the Assembly within the time limit, but we had to send letters to the creditors to ask for an extension of the ratification deadline? The second question is, like the previous days, why, when it's been waiting so long, these contracts are coming before us in an emergency procedure? So less than 24 hours we had time to look at and analyze these contracts. What is a fact, it speaks of ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia showing up here mainly when it comes to loans, so Minister Krstic, so here is Minister, or Vice-President Mihajlovic, is here to ask the National Assembly to ratify the borrowing agreement. I don't want to be wrong about my soul, there was a finance minister on some other issues, but above all when he had to put on the budget of Serbian citizens in the past and in this mandate, or taxing professors, doctors, art workers, etc. None of these announced reforms are in place, no reform law has entered the Assembly, but we are in a circle and are back on the agenda of duties and increases, a total increase in the duties of the Republic of Serbia, which has never been higher. This general context in which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will ratify these loans, loan agreements, cannot be avoided. So, the country's general debt, from month to month new loans, from month to month less credit capacity and to take loans due to credit ratings and, of course, to repay them. Regardless of the grace period, these loans will one day come on the charge and someone will have to pay them back. This is the government that takes, is in charge, sometimes without concrete projects that go towards fixing the infrastructure, such as loans to cover the deficit. Today, debt contracts are on the agenda which, we could say, make sense that the country's creditworthiness has not been questioned. Why do they make sense? They make sense because no one can argue that the road economy in our country is in a very bad state. The minister said that over 70% of the travel industry is in poor condition, that these roads threaten safety, damage vehicles and endanger the lives of citizens, or passengers. It is not disputed that our signalling is very bad and certain, someone mentioned to Albania, that there is nowhere worse signalling than Serbia in Europe. I'd say that's where the human factor has a good influence and that those who run roads don't do their job well. I'll talk about it later. On the other hand, we had evidence of the fact that this signalling and notification didn't work, when we had winter that collapse on the highway Novi Sad – Subotica, or Subotica – Novi Sad, when it didn't work the system by which the tractors needed it, heavy vehicles to be shut off from traffic, if it was known to snow or even when the snow started to fall. Something's not working, by the way. Of course, the many accidents you've been talking about yourself with the fatalities are special evidence that you need to invest in this. However, these reasons always have, in the case of this government, and their "but". So, what will these loans represent if we don't know or want to hear from you is the answer whether we meet the terms of the 5th or 6th term, depending on the contract, to withdraw the first tranche of the credit? There are a few conditions that we need to meet in order for these tranches to pull you back. So do we fulfill all these positions by these tranches? On the other hand, are we as a country ready to make that loan within the agreed deadline when we withdraw that first tranche? Do we have prepared projects, do we have a public procurement process that provides efficiency? I don't think so, because you've passed a very bad law that slows down the procurement process and allows some of the bidders to delay the procedure indefinitely. Of course it prevented corruption, perhaps, but it also prevented public procurement procedures from being realised. I'm afraid there may be problems. Someone's talking about domestic performers. Who says they'll be domestic performers? The business bearer, or other parties to the contract, is "Serbia's Ways". However, they do not have "Serbian Ways" mechanisms to do these jobs. They have to hire some performers for that. That these two conditions are met, who guarantees, Minister, that this municipal infrastructure or a mobileist will survive this year? What do I want to ask you? You know the signalling, I mean the illuminating signalling, vertical and the rest, is destroying. If you've been passing, and probably have, along Serbian roads, you've seen that some of the signs don't exist anymore, and they were there. Some were cut in half, no road fences, etc. Who guarantees, do we have a legal state that ensures that this mobileer won't be destroyed in some future period? We've passed a law that strengthens the penalties for these crimes. We didn't get an analysis of the effects of that law. I'd say, by the state of the field, nothing's changed. I'd like to know how many people are convicted of criminal acts against, to call it, the destruction of municipal infrastructure? Has anyone spoken through an analysis of the application of these agreements, i.e. the realization, or written risks, since the lender asks that the equipment be operational? I've read the elements of the contract that this equipment must be operational, so it should be installed and operational. How will you ensure that this equipment is operational when you do not cooperate with other ministries, or when the rule of law does not work, first of all I mean the judiciary? You yourself mentioned inspection services that don't practically exist in this country. It's a special problem. They've been torn apart by the ministries. They're inefficient, they're not responding to anyone. It is a problem that we will probably agree on from the opposition and you from the government. The New Democratic Party's MP group -- Boris Tadic, Together for Serbia and Green, will not prevent the realisation of these contracts nor can it with its number of MPs, but is asking a serious question about the competence of the institution to carry this job, which is the "Serb Roads" and the management of the company so that they can do the job. We know that the head of the company is Mr. Drobnjak, who has several criminal charges, who, with his irresponsible behaviour, has repeatedly offended and sound understanding of Serbian citizens, talking about when some people were killed on the highway to Novi Sad so that the blind man would see these stone barriers or bans that these people hit that night. Should it now be given to a man that he realises a loan worth nearly 300m euros, a loan, plus that the state will invest a percentage on its part? Is it necessary for a man who is also famous for the fact that the work he was running was delayed, were they late for work on the construction of the Bescan Bridge, were they late for other jobs, were the maintenance of roads, routes that were in his jurisdiction effective, quality, which he recommended that he continue the work? It doesn't matter, he survived two or three governments, I don't know, this is his fourth government. So it's not at all questionable who set it up. It is a dispute whether this man has shown that he can run this business and that you are giving this man and this company to the head of whom he is that he can accomplish a hardworking and responsible job like this. I don't think he has any competence for that. I think he and this loan will use how he's used other loans so far in the sense that jobs will be slowed down, that control, surveillance will be bad, that contractors will drop out of business one by one and question the realisation of this loan. I seriously doubt that on the basis of his previous competences. In that sense, it is our serious fence of these few questions that I mentioned. It's primarily the credit capability of the country, it's on the other hand preparedness for the realisation of the loan and it's the management that needs to implement this. Madam Minister, certainly as a member of the government, as vice president, you should be responsible not only for your actions, but also for the actions of your directors who conduct certain affairs. You certainly know who you're making available to, and in any case, you need to think carefully about keeping that man in place. If you do, you take a practical risk. These few fences would be very pleased if these loans were implemented on purpose and traffic security increased. We sincerely doubt, with all these questions being put in the way of the realisation of this job, that's how it's going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3192	Dr Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3193	Here's some information. Let me start again from the end. With regard to JP "Serb Roads" etc., immediately you know, these loans that are taken have a different kind of control and far from having such a large amount and at all any amount and that it is a million euros, without talking about 300, can depend first on one man and that one man is called the director of "Serb Roads" or V.D. Director. So there's a supervisory board of this project. There is constant control of this project. Even if we don't want to, we have it from the World Bank and from the institutions of which we're actually taking credit. In the supervisory board, besides the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, there is also the Ministry of Public Administration, local self-government and representatives of the World Bank, the EIB. Far from being able to depend... In the end, I wouldn't even talk about whether one director of "The Way of Serbia" will do something or not. I'm sorry, but he has to conduct the loan. If he can't run it, then he won't be able to do it. Let's go back to the public procurements you mentioned and about these loans. First of all, regarding the law, the savings made by that law are not small. I don't think the law is bad. Is it practical to change something and make it more effective? Yes, and we all found that, especially when we talk about public enterprises, from "Serbian Gas", and beyond, which have a problem with this law. When we talk about this loan, there's a shortened procedure. A public call shall be made within 21 days. A public call shall also be made for the performer and a special public call for supervision. When you talk about travel companies, yes, it will work and travel companies. We'll do our best. We have 25 toll companies and 10,000 employees in them. I'm not saying they're all great. Far from it. I talked to most of them. It's not a good situation. Certainly, with certain guarantees, compared to what they can do, they will work. They should be hired. It's about rehab. When you talk about whether companies are late or not, the process, i.e. the investor's job, has taken over another company formed in the DS government, which is "Coridori". So, "Serbian Roads" are working to maintain the road network, and that's their main task, and investment and construction are working "Corridori". I think I've answered enough, but if it's necessary, I'll add.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3194	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3195	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have three legislative proposals ahead of us, I would say, of great importance and importance. This is about three legislative proposals that are part of an extremely important and important project, financed by the funds of the Republic of Serbia, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the international bank totaling around 390m euros, as far as I can see. What we are talking about today is the first stage of this significant project, i.e. the National Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation Programme, which includes, as you said among other things in the opening exhibition very precisely, about 1,100 kilometers from a total of 5,000 kilometers of road state infrastructure. This is something defined in this project as a priority in the rehabilitation process. The project we're talking about covers 54 shares. I will not speak individually of shares, I will not suggest, but I understand the needs and responsibilities of fellow MPs coming from different districts, regions, cities and municipalities. What I'm saying is, when it comes to the choice of shares, on behalf of the MPs' club, we believe that these are the real priorities chosen on the basis of the precise, clearly defined criteria. We believe what you said, the basis for the criteria was economic justification and the state of travel infrastructure, or August, the shares we're talking about today. The SPS Parliament Club will support these three legislative proposals in the voting day, as adopting these legislative proposals will allow investment in restoring existing road infrastructure, maintaining and improving security, which is very important. The two, in our opinion, are in the opinion of the SPS MPs' club, the key objectives they want to achieve by adopting these three legislative proposals. It is the quality of the travel network and the safety of the travel network. It is true, and this has already been said during today's debate, that the quality of the travel network is not at an envious level and that this quality has been dropping for years. You have made it very clear in the light of this legislative proposal that some data are significant and important. On the other hand, it is also true that the amount of funds allocated on an annual basis for the maintenance of travel infrastructure is unfortunately not enough and, unfortunately, it is also true that traffic safety is also a major cause of traffic accidents. I think you highlighted some data that are also very important, such as that the percentage of the paved network when it comes to Serbia is the lowest in the region, 62%, Montenegro has, say, 64%. Also, relative to the number of people that Serbia has about two and a half times less infrastructure than other EU countries. When it comes to local roads, it certainly is in some sense and defeating data, that out of the total number of kilometers of local roads only 8% is in good condition. Surely, the reason for such poor travel infrastructure is at local level and the lack of financial resources. It is necessary to find a way to fund and create opportunities for road infrastructure at local level to be maintained in a proper and adequate manner. So these are just some data that speak precisely in favour of finding how important it is, how important it is to invest in existing infrastructure and how much investment is necessary and necessary. Also, the daunting circumstance certainly is that the elemental disasters have certainly destroyed even more existing road infrastructure and we as a parliamentary club fully support the intention and attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make one of the priorities, in addition to the building of housing, a critical road infrastructure. What I'm saying is, when it comes to investing in road infrastructure, there is therefore no economic without infrastructure development. Infrastructure development is a prerequisite for economic development, but I would say economic growth. Investment in road infrastructure and road construction strengthens domestic operations, creates conditions for new investments, employment and business growth. It is our opinion that only through development projects that are primarily aimed at road infrastructure can we in some way partially resolve what is a burning problem in Serbia today, and that is the issue of unemployment. Serbia as a state has a very favourable geographical position, a transit country connecting the east and west, north and south of the continent. I think this position gives enormous comparative advantages to the development of transit tourism and the development of traffic transit. Just to be able to collect higher revenues in the coming period, we need to invest far more resources in road infrastructure, make road infrastructure well equipped, but be safe for traffic. That Serbia attaches great importance to this, that the government of the Republic of Serbia also attaches great importance to strategic projects whose realisation is under way. That was the case during today's debate, of course I mean, first of all, Corridor 10, Corridor 11, but I also mean the railway infrastructure. I've already said that this project includes 54 shares and it's mostly a word and it's a large number of regional roads whose repair means a lot to each of these parts. Clearly, a good traffic connection with large centres is one of the most important segments for moderate, intensive, regional development. I'm not talking about the terms of these duties. They are certainly favourable from the financial aspect, in a financial sense. What I want to say once again is that the SPS Parliament Club will support these three legislative proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3196	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word has an authorised representative of SNS Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3197	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have three laws before us on confirming the agreement, and they are all based on one project, the Rehabilitation and Safety Project on the Roads. As far as the realisation of this project is concerned, we simply don't need to read the reasoning of the law itself, that is, the bill itself. It's enough to drive in any direction for at least 20 to 50 km, so we'll see for ourselves what the state of our roads is and they really need rehabilitation and rehabilitation. What it would also say, as it says in the explanation, which is also a shame for the state, is that Serbia has found itself in 2012 in 122 places of 144 countries in the quality of roads. Far, far above us are the lands of our surroundings. For example, Croatia found itself on 29th, Slovenia at 38th, and Albania in 58th place. But if we weren't the worst in the region, it's saying that BiH was in 134 places. It certainly doesn't need to comfort us. The fact is that this is indeed the case and I hope that unfortunately all those who had the opportunity to drive by car or bus across the countries of the region felt it. Unfortunately, driving, or I am the quality of driving and comfort on the roads of these countries, is dramatically better. As far as security is concerned, I wouldn't even mention it. I'll talk about it later. The data I also read in the context of these draft laws refers to the amount of road maintenance funds being allocated from the RS budget. The data I read was that it amounted to 360m euros during 2006 and has been shrinking for years. In 2010, the amount paid for road maintenance amounted to 194m, while the amount decreased almost double in 2011 and amounted to 168m euros. This reduction, more specifically this trend in the reduction of the government at the time, i.e. those who managed the funds, justified that the state is in one difficult economic situation and that this money planned for this purpose should be shifted to some other major infrastructure facilities. However, in all that time, even though the state was in crisis, by some logic, if the state is in crisis, then citizens have been in crisis, citizens have been paying tolls on charges that haven't been reduced in years, and yet, I stress, the budget for purpose has been cut. I think we're all familiar with the fact that in the previous period through the registration of the vehicle, or through the payment of the registration of the vehicle, we had one payment card that applied to the public roads and the funds that we were paying for at the time were supposed to go to the maintenance of the travel network. According to the data I received from the traffic police, we have about two million registered vehicles, which means that every fourth citizen in Serbia paid that road maintenance fee. On the one hand, we have a situation where the government was reducing the budget, the funds that existed in that budget, and the citizens regularly paid that road maintenance fee, which has not been reduced, I can say freely that the citizens for the registration of their vehicles were almost giving up to half their hard-earned salary, not to mention more. On the other hand, we had an explanation that the road maintenance section was being transferred to build some infrastructure facilities. I couldn't think of any infrastructure facilities that were built from 2006 to 2011, and I would really like to know, if as citizens we invested in some of them, that we know what objects they were, so tomorrow when I fall into a hole on the road, not because it's not possible for us to drive in many places faster than 50 km per hour, when we lose a 50 km flat tire and it's because of the depth of the hole, to be happy because the money we've just invested to fix in some kind of facility that serves us. In all that thinking and searching for what objects they were, the only thing I could think of was the Ada Bridge. The bridge on Ada is certainly one object that no doubt represents only a monument of the former regime. I really agree that bridges are necessary for both Belgrade and Serbia, but not so expensive bridges and not so dysfunctional. I'd also like to ask you to help me remember if there's another facility we've invested in, and in fact it was the means that were supposed to go into rehab, more specifically to rebuild the road network. I want to suggest that only the traffic situation directly affects traffic safety. Unfortunately, a lot of heavy car accidents occur precisely because of a bad condition on our roads, especially at night, and especially when the road itself is not visible because it is located in an unlit area, and we simply cannot assume what we will encounter on the road. It is certainly the new law adopted in 2009 on the security of traffic through its application during 2010 that has brought a significant reduction in the number of fatal car accidents, but by the number of traffic accidents, unfortunately, we are ahead in the countries of the region. What I would also like to mention is that this difficult situation on our roads has further worsened the catastrophic floods that occurred during May of this year and I know that the funds from these loans will not go to invest in these routes, but I want to stress that I support the government's decision that these routes and this road infrastructure will be improved by the end of October of this year. According to the unofficial information I managed to obtain, as far as repairs themselves are concerned, it takes 40m euros. As regards the project itself, which represents the basis for the adoption of these three agreements, I would like to stress that the project will be financed from the financing of the Republic of Serbia, from the European Investment Bank, from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as well as the World Bank, totalling 390m euros, as follows: The Republic of Serbia will participate with 116.2m euros, representing 29% of the total funding for the project; the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 100m euros, representing 26% of the total funds needed for the realisation of the project and the World Bank with 100m dollars, i.e. 73.8m euros, and that represents 19% of the total funds for this project. I would like to point out that all these three agreements were signed on 27 December 2013, and the contract, which was signed on 3 December last year by the public company "Serbian Ways", which was authorised as an undertaking responsible for the implementation of this project. This project contract defines many things that concern the very realization of this project. Specially defined is the formation of a implementation team, which will be composed of experts who have significant experience with work in international funded projects. Also, this team will have an obligation to co-ordinate all state institutions that will be involved in giving projects and the rest. The establishment and monitoring committees that will control only the implementation of this project are foreseen. The Supervisory Board is planned to make up people from the Ministry of Finance, Home Affairs, Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, as well as the Ministry of Transport, who is actually the bearer of the entire project. As we have already heard from colleagues, this project represents only the first phase of the National Road Infrastructure Recovery Programme, and it implies a renewal of 1,100 km of travel network of 5,000 km, which is foreseen by the entire National Road Infrastructure Recovery Programme. Also, what we've already heard, 54 different shares have entered these 1,100 kilometers, according to the criteria that have been established by the project itself. The project itself predicts the realization of three components. The first component is definitely investment works. These are the works that will first be applied, the work on the ground, the expansion of August itself, the setting of signalling on the roads, etc. The second component represents strengthening institutions. So, it's going to be a lot of campaigns to raise awareness of road safety. The third component includes design, supervision, project management, as well as monitoring and audit. The project itself was planned to take place in three stages. The first phase is the preparatory phase, more specifically, the pre-work phase. At this stage, it is necessary to record the entire location, as well as to adopt the necessary projects. Then there will be a phase in which the construction itself will be done. The third stage is a phase where various consents will be obtained and some possible shortcomings will be resolved. As I have already said, it is planned under this project to realise or restore 54 shares. Of this, 37 shares are planned to be financed by the European Investment Bank and the World Bank's loans, while 17 shares will be financed exclusively by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Realisation of this project will certainly raise the level of security in traffic and the possibility of better transport traffic through Serbia, which will contribute to our economy. What we heard on the board is that these are very favourable loans for us. I'm not an economist, so I don't want to explain that part, but we heard it was some of the cheap loans. What I could personally say is that I would like the ministers to never hear a bird cricket again in any construction site but to hear the noise of the machine, because it is simply something that guarantees the viability of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3198	Thank you, Miss Rakic. Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a common and uniform search. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Let MP Zoran Zivkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3199	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, what is not said is that the roads are one of the country's main resources, and if they were supposed to be sold, it would be the most expensive goods on the possibly market. Secondly, many colleagues have said that the roads are one of the country's basic preconditions for economic development and even development throughout Serbia, and the investor is a foreigner or traveler when he comes to Serbia the first thing he sees is the situation at border crossings and customs, and the second thing he sees is the state of our infrastructure. As for infrastructure, it could be short-circuited -- we have bad roads, among the worst in Europe, but that's why our railway is catastrophic. Just to rebuild railway infrastructure, we need to invest about six and a half billion euros, and we don't have that money. It has been shown that even the demagogy that has been present for years around infrastructure projects has not solved problems in infrastructure, because it simply lacked money, and where there was money, we have shown extreme irresponsibility in the withdrawal of some credits and payment of unnecessary pens or in the excessively long work on many shares, where there have also been construction of new road shares and reconstructions. I will mention, for example, the reconstruction of the Mostar loop in Belgrade. Believe me, I've come faster from Novi Sad to Kragujevac than I've been going through Belgrade, not just me, but all the citizens who have been harassed for years. I think the reconstruction, by my free judgment, lasted one six, seven years, and that's not the only example. The highway on the entrance to Čačak from the Kragujevac direction was reconstructed for the same few years, here is now the highway Topola – Kragujevac, the entry into Kragujevac is one, two years, apart from harassing citizens daily leaving a very ugly picture of ourselves. It's something that needs to be pointed out as a bad phenomenon as soon as we need to eliminate it. From the point of view of traffic safety, road reconstruction is a basic prerequisite for reducing a large number of traffic accidents and for preserving the greatest Christian value we have, which is human life. Modern conditions of designing safe and easily usable roads include meeting three basic systems, such as driver, vehicle and environment. Since we in the 1990s didn't say it for 10 years because of the conditions of war, sanctions, NATO bombings, we didn't invest in infrastructure at all, we had one catastrophic condition at the time, so, from the impact holes on the highway, the destruction of the protective fences, there was no grass cutting on the highway. Examples of the Kragujevac highway – Topola, when the surrounding roads were cleaned, when the canals were re-excavated we saw some of the walls and protective fences of stone that existed from before World War II that had been completely healed in the blizzards and thorns and in the branches and left in addition to being absolutely insecure to manage such a route. This resulted in a huge number of car accidents and in the '90s besides all our stupidity and wars and all the other accounts, criminal gangs, literally so many people died on our roads as if there was a small war. As it recalls the number of accidents, regardless of the highway, as the closed vehicle movement system is the safest from the safety of traffic safety consequences of traffic accidents on highways are fatal due to high speeds. The highways take part with 50% of the participation in car accidents, regionally with 32%, and no one said that, means three basic jobs that need to be done, changing or strengthening Augustes, rebuilding the August construction and rebuilding the road and the environment, means around the road of the road. Insufficient maintenance of the 90s roads and insufficient investment in infrastructure, and the state of travel infrastructure after 2000 according to all indicators very well. When we compare, for example, the total cost or damage that everyone in turn means loss of life, in addition to physical injuries, in addition to the material damage to vehicles and the environment suffered by one society, the analyses show that we are losing to traffic accidents by seven hundred million euros per year. For this money, we could reconstruct five hundred kilometers of highways and seven hundred kilometers of regional roads annually. We and with this money, with loans that are very favourable, which are very good, facts and we are all aware that the money of other types except those of investment that we have provided in the budget we cannot find, that it simply does not have it we would commend this kind of engagement of the ministry that is in line with and with the adopted Master plan to take favourable loans with such favourable terms and conditions of payment of the loan and no one has mentioned anything and the part that we get from donations free of charge as the kind of donations from these loans. We can also finance the reconstruction of the construction of new roads in addition to budgets from EU pre-accession and accession funds, loans from the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank, etc. Under the Master's plan to build and develop a network of roads in Serbia, it would require, if I am not mistaken by 2027, about 13.7 billion euros, for the 7.5 billion euros railway, for the water traffic of 475m euros, for air transport of 376m and for combined transport of 136m euros. What is important is to note, and Col. Čotric said, that with a small investment of only 135m euros in air traffic, we can increase the current annual traffic of 2.5 million passengers to the traffic of eight million passengers, which would be an extraordinary jump with very low investment. As far as the active Traffic Safety Act is concerned, I'd like to ask Mrs. Secretary a very special parliamentary question, but I'll draw your attention to something I believe is in the common interest. We have held elections with you to fight corruption and crime at all levels and because we have promised citizens that we will arrange the country in a better way. On that course, you stay, and we stay, but in all aspects of our actions, we should act like one. After the adoption of the Traffic Safety Act, a series of sublegal acts or regulations have not been adopted. One of them is the Technical Review Regulation, and in our current state, we do not have as in developed EU countries, taking photographs of the vehicle on a technical review as a basis. So, businesses dealing with technical examinations that operate on the edge of the law or on the other side of the law simply end up almost half the technical examinations in such a way as not to see a vehicle on the technical examination line at all. This punishes those who work legally, who do not agree that the technical correct vehicle has passed the technical examination and thus achieves two very negative effects. Those who work securely and legally punish, those who work unconsciously, we advance. This is something that you, first of all, must act as Government immediately and bring the rulebook to the kind that exists in EU countries and countries in the environment. As for the number of traffic accidents, he was reduced after the adoption of a new Traffic Safety Act on the roads. In the past few years, we have felt a slight trend in growth, but what we have constantly turned our attention to as a parliamentary group, it is that we should not stop with the media campaign on the importance of traffic safety on the roads and on traffic rules. These rules have been largely brought to life in our education system. It was the ministry for a while with a strong campaign after the last Law on Road Safety, but it seems to me that this campaign is necessary to raise awareness of our citizens, it seems to me, that it should be strengthened. Let's just say, we don't have an expression of the cost of car accidents as do Swedishs who can call themselves road safety champions. It's a huge number, and there's a huge amount aside from the loss of human lives and disability that our citizens and the entire state pay for lack of respect for traffic safety on the roads. I believe with this considerable investment and security it will increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3200	Thank you. The word is by professor Zorana Mihajlovic, vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3201	Thank you very much. Just a few things about traffic safety. We will further change, make changes to the Traffic Safety Act. In addition to introducing certain licenses for all those conducting technical examinations, there will be other things, because you are absolutely right. There are many more segments when we talk about traffic safety that are not satisfactory. Of course, it also applies to what you said in the end, raising awareness, but I think traffic security is primarily our common problem, almost a state problem. At first, I said we needed safe vehicles, safe drivers, safe roads. I think we all have to work on it together. So, from small, from parents, schools, states, local self-government, absolutely everyone. When we talk about the number of car accidents, we have to say that since 2000, the number of car accidents has dropped. So, 48,000 - 2000, at 37,000 2013, which is also a lot, not to mention the number of deaths, from 1000 deaths in 2000 to 630 2013, the number of children, etc. So, we're going to try not only through the law and all the acts we have to have, but together with the Agency for Transport Security and through the Government, through this coordination body, where we want to include everything, not just the ministers, but all those under the ministers to try and find a way to have a much better traffic safety than we've had so far. I believe you'll have some information tomorrow about what we're going to do when we talk about changing and supplementing the Traffic Safety Act, and we'll go with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3202	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic has the word, and let the People's MP Marijan Rističević be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3203	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues, we have a typical session of parliament in this session. Two hours no one has said anything about the points of the agenda that are now under discussion, to remind you, in this debate we have three laws on loans, these loans refer to this rehabilitation of roads and the restoration of roads, but it is not the topic of rehabilitation of roads. Serbia's strategy is not here to rehabilitate roads and roads, but rather to question three loans, which will be owed by the country, future generations with 200m euros and $100m. Therefore, it is perfectly logical, with all due respect to the Deputy Prime Minister, that today these laws are being defended by the finance minister, who is also the signator of the contract on these loans. The second paradox is that this session is called for by emergency procedure twice. In her letter, the government put the reasons for an emergency procedure, which was enough, and then 205 MPs additionally, I don't know how, at which point they found themselves in this building yesterday to sign those 205 signatures, to call for an emergency session on loans signed on 27 November last year. Why an emergency procedure? Not only has it been more than six months since then, but it has expired for ratification, so it has been restored in a way that is common. It explains that an emergency procedure is necessary because the laws must be passed in order for credits to be withdrawn, of course, but not in an emergency procedure. They could have been adopted by regular procedure. Everyone boasted that interest was very favourable. I didn't hear what the interest was. It doesn't say everywhere, and I think the citizens of Serbia should know. Not everyone in the Eurybor can find out exactly what the credit is. I'm talking about gross interest, which means that millions of euros to access the loan we have. How much is the total interest for these 200 million and 100 million euros? So 200 million euros and 100 million dollars, what are the total interest? Why didn't this government do anything to get one completely wrong, missed decision to lift funds from road-removing excises, to rebuild it? It's the only way that makes sense. The question of who has been removed or who has been arrested for delays in designing, performing and abuse, who has all been installed with a few percent in this asphalt that has been set up on Serbian roads in the past few years, and God has lasted me for a decade. It's not just a couple of years ago. The question is, why are we late for ratification? Is it the relationship of this government or Minister Krstic individually according to his obligations or does it have some other hidden idea that I have failed to understand so far? Generally, with all due respect to what the colleagues have said, about the condition of the roads, that I agree with, there is a state of disaster, the restoration going badly. What was done was done below every level of quality, without serious control, but it's not on the agenda today. I would ask the government to introduce us as MPs with its strategies for further development of Serbia's travel network, reconstruction and all that, but this is not on the agenda today. Therefore, I would ask all fellow MPs to act as MPs, not as government mercenaries who have to do what the Serbian Government thinks in the same second. We're the older body, we're the legislative authority, and it's not the legislative authority in Germany. It's as clear as day. I'd like to, if you're already here and if we're already in this debate outside the agenda to get answers to questions, why are you late for ratification and what are the total interest obligations on these three loans?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3204	The word is by prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3205	About the delay you're talking about and why we're going into an emergency procedure, because why would we do that when we can do the ratification by November 27th? Because in this summer season which is the construction season, we would try to do some things, and we could do them. These three laws have been working for two years, two years preparing things, and on December 23rd or 7th, the Agreement was signed, last year and the documentation was being prepared. I agree, and the Ministry of Finance and came prepared and passed a session of the government, the previous government and was sent to the Assembly, and then, as you know, there were parliamentary elections. It is simply known that after the parliamentary elections, everything that has been to the Assembly, it must return. (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: They cannot return. ) Moru, these agreements were, and I know what I found once again, the whole procedure, the whole government, all the committees and then Parliament to discuss it. I sincerely hope we still have enough time to talk about everything. As far as interest goes, they're also in this material that you've got. You have a six-month Eurobor plus a 45% point, and when you look at all three loans, that's 0.8 to 1.3% interest. When you look at both payment and grace period, compared to many of the loans we've been taking, I'd say it's convenient. I agree with those who have so far said that no credit is for us anymore, because the country that really is quite in charge, but since we know what the result of this is and what we want to do, I think that the cost of one, the other or the third agreement, or the credit, can only bring us good. You mentioned the excises, I agree with you, in 2011, the Cvetkovic government abolished it and there is no other way to talk about road maintenance, financing, excises, I've been here a month, when we're talking about this ministry. So, we'll try to get ready and ask for a piece of the excise. As far as it's going to be, there used to be six, 10, 20%, I don't know, they're doing analysis, so we'll see. So, you said the renovation's going slow, or you don't want to talk about it now? Next time, okay, here you go. It's a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3206	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3207	Some interesting questions have been raised that are difficult to resist without being scored. I don't get into things that are the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when, how and why. You know, when there are responsible and valuable 208 people in this room who support this Serbian government, they don't mind getting together and calling for a session by emergency procedure. But what's more important and more important, it's that a simple example, in 2013, is 58.1 kilometers of new roads, where of these 58 kilometers, 33.2 km of highway is in full profile, 13.3 parallel roads, and that tells you about K 10. At 11, 6.4 kilometers, and 2.4 kilometers of parallel roads and then someone will say, well, the state is also obliged to build roads. I'm 43 years old and since I know about myself, it's been talking about corridors in Serbia and they never end up. Do you know why they don't end up? Credits such as the World Bank loan of 275m euros were provided and the loan was made available in 2009, and from February 2009 to October 2012 only 13.35% were withdrawn. Then, within a little over a year and a half, nearly two years of the former and current government of the Republic of Serbia until yesterday, another 27.02% was made, showing that the government of the Republic of Serbia has done twice as much for twice as long. I don't know how many colleagues will understand that bill, but this government is four times better than the former one. It shows mathematics, not that it's obvious whether we need it, whether it's not and where it says it in the interest project. (President: Time. ) Mrs Mihajlović replied very explicitly that these interest rates on these contracts are much more favourable, but it is even more important that this country, that this government has the capacity to spend these funds in the right way now, by building corridors and with that plan that it is for 2014, where we will get a new 40 to 50 kilometers of full highway profile.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3208	I thank Mr. Babic. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3209	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107, was injured in connection with dignity. We are called here as mercenaries of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is something that is scandalous and you had to react. It's a hired man who works for someone's interests who takes money from it. No one here, nor I nor my colleagues, has received any money from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but that's why someone has received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia their own time subsidies for vineyards, so it is likely that he may have come from himself for such a thing. In the future, I'd really like to ask you to make a note like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3210	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will certainly support these proposals for the determination to improve the safety of our paths, to make rehabilitation. It is a wonder that, in addition to all this amount of money withdrawn, aside from all this social capital sold, along with this many loans and loans from 2000 to 2012, we still need to talk about infrastructure today. If the former governments were real, if they were productive, if they were doing their job, we'd be dealing with other topics today. We would be dealing with improving possibly the second and third stages of the rural network infrastructure, etc., but we are still dealing with major communications, since none of the previous governments found fit to finish the job for which it was paid. Every government should arrange life in its own country. This was the way previous ones should have worked, and life-saving certainly involves the infrastructure that is necessary for normal business life to take place, in order to be able to transport people and goods on roads that are worthy of roads at least weaker countries in the EU in this normal economic life. The desolation of our infrastructure in 2012, when there was a change of government, was not to be described at all, and it is a wonder how they found the strength to collect the cars they owned, drive on such roads as they did not make and did not build. For that reason, I will support these proposals, aware that the roads affect traffic safety. That's one thing. They should be rehabilitated, but, on the other hand, they are necessary for the development of our economy, in general, for the economic development of this country. What the former governments haven't done, and what I advise this government to do in parallel with this, they have to learn from other people's mistakes. They don't need to learn on their own. The mistake of previous governments is that they have not made a business system and economy, and even the ways in which this economic life would take place, and this government has no right to make that mistake. It has been squandered 51 billion, according to estimates of foreign international organisations, over 51 billion euros have been swept out of our country, brutally robbed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Many loans and loans, donations have also been spent, and nothing big has been arranged in our country, thus neither infrastructure, roads, railways, etc. I advise this government to do what the previous government has not done, to raise the economy that will monitor our infrastructure and be one step ahead, to transport our raw materials, transport our goods, transport the goods that we will make for the domestic and export markets, to travel on these roads every morning by workers who will rejoice by having their jobs and having something to do that day and who will be happy to return home after work and every first month satisfied with these trips from their companies to their homes, their families with personal incomes that they will earn in these companies. This life did not allow ordinary people, workers, and peasants of the former government. I appeal to the Ministry of Traffic to pay attention not only to the main roads, but to pay attention and to the roads in the country, untegorized roads. In the first hand, a network that is in the countryside and these smaller environments, which are covered by floods, needs to be restored. They need to be restored, not only roads to health homes, main streets in cities, but roads leading to fields and fields. Given that the European trend, i.e. that farms can no longer be built in populated areas, I advise the Ministry of Transport to pay attention to the construction of roads between rural settlements and to make roads along which way they will be able to raise pig and cattle farms and thus increase our livestock fund, while respecting EU standards so that we can co-meat such cattle, meet some standards. So, the main roads need to be made, traffic safety needs to be ensured, but above all, it should be kept in mind that, in addition to these communications, there is also a standard for citizens, i.e. that the economy will allow us to have more money and to live better. I also appeal, and I think that my fellow farmer will agree, that the roads of untegorized renovations in such a way that we can safely as farmers, as winemakers, as peasants will travel to our fields and that in a pretty safe way we bring our goods to our warehouses, to our parlours, to our wineries to do so in a fairly safe way, given that the state has granted 55,000 euros to certain farmers and subsidies, so that it would be a real shame to make a good contribution and a good income from vineyards and vineyards, i.e. from grapes to grapes, and not to the wineries if they are not sold and if they are in function, if they have not only served to make money from citizens into private pockets, to sell the company with vineyards, and to buy an apartment for that money. It's not normal for me to get a grant to raise one wine for now, and then sell it for money to buy an apartment on Vracar and then give a lecture here. That's it. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3212	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, we are witnessing that road traffic is characterized by extremely dynamic development, because first of all we are talking about an economic branch. Experience shows that without building a quality network of roads, there is virtually no significant development of certain areas. The development of each country and its economy depends on development and the safety of road traffic. The problem of traffic security is being dealt with more seriously in the last 25 years, as a result of the intensive development of the road network. In the modern concept, the basic security factor of traffic is road, man, environment and vehicle. The road can be a direct or indirect cause of any car accident, because practically the entire glue of the elements of the road affects safety. The continued improvement and revitalisation of the road network, i.e. road infrastructure, ensures the economic and sustainable development of each country. Therefore, any project that contributes to increasing traffic safety should be supported. The project, a road rehabilitation project and an improvement in traffic security, which is financed by the funds of the Republic of Serbia, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank totalling 390m euros is one of those projects that should be supported. The project is the first phase of a national road network rehabilitation programme, covering 1,100km of state road network of 5,000km identified as high priority for rehabilitation. Of the 1,100km rehabilitation covers 54 shares, we heard about it in the discussion, according to the list of priorities established on the basis of the state of August and the times and criteria of economic justification for investment. The road rehabilitation project and the improvement of traffic security are funded, as I said, from four sources, and according to the source and way of financing it consists of two sub-projects. A sub-project co-financed by the funds of the Republic of Serbia, the European Investment Bank, the World Bank, in addition to works on road rehabilitation, includes all other activities and services provided for by this project. The loans in question are undoubtedly one of the most favourable tasks of the Republic of Serbia, based on the fact that the planned grace period is three, four, five years and that the credit return is 15 years. Since the money received under these credit arrangements is revitalising 1,100km of road network, which includes first and second-row state roads, we can expect that the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be significantly faster filled than the level and dynamics of the settlement of liabilities from the loans in question. Therefore, the benefit of the State in this way must be regarded as one of the basic arguments justifying the conclusion of these three contracts. The project is also specific according to the way in which the project component is financed and the conditions for spending of funds are provided. For the first time in the Republic of Serbia, the so-called "Republic of Serbia" will be realised. the programme approach, which implies that the financing of works, services and goods within the framework of the projects is carried out in tranches, based on the planned and achieved annual objectives of the realisation of the project itself, i.e. on the basis of the so-called The withdrawal indicator of the tranche. This programme approach will be applied to a sub-component of a project financed by the joint funds of the Republic of Serbia, the Investment Bank and the World Bank. This co-financed sub-project, in addition to the works of road rehabilitation, includes institutional strengthening, as well as design, monitoring, management and monitoring on the project and audit. All purchases related to the components of this sub-project must comply with the agreement between the banks and the Republic of Serbia and will be conducted in accordance with the relevant procurement procedures of the World Bank and in accordance with the World Bank guidelines for the procurement of goods, works and non-consultant services. The obligation under the concluded agreements is to form a project implementation unit, in this case it is the JP "Serb Roads", which, as a user of the loan with certain restrictions, has the task of forming a project implementation team that will be multi-sectoral. Oversight over the whole name-mentation, that is what you, Madam Minister, have said, will be carried out by the Management and Supervisory Board, which will be made up of representatives of the departments of transport, home affairs, then, finance, the Ministry of State and local self-government, as well as representatives of the implementation units. The sub-component financed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will be implemented in accordance with its standard way of financing projects and will include the rehabilitation of the road network and the improvement of safety on pre-determined shares, which is 17 of these 54. Another specificity of the project, compared with previously implemented projects in Serbia's travel sector, is seen to provide project-technical documentation based on road safety design and implementation of an independent traffic security check at the project stage. These activities are only part of the measures to be applied under the road safety promotion component. I will take this opportunity to mention that for this project it is extremely important to improve road maintenance management. In addition to two important indicators, which are rehabilitation of traffic safety and activities to improve traffic safety, it is important for this project to reform road maintenance management, which requires the adoption of updated standards for the design, rehabilitation and maintenance of roads. I point this out because of the need to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Safety Act, which concerns the road controller. In 2009, when the Road Safety Act was adopted, European directives were in the works. In order to improve the safety of traffic and realisation of the project itself, it is necessary to include in the Transport Safety Act newspapers concerning the areas of audit and road checks, as well as deep analysis of the road contribution in accidents with deceased persons. Finally, even though it is not directly related to the loans we are talking about today, but it is certainly mentioned several times by my colleagues, I would like to suggest that a legal obligation be established to allocate a certain percentage of the funds from the retail price of fuel for maintenance of travel infrastructure. This implies redistributing funds in favour of maintenance of roads and by respecting the practice of European states, which would contribute to a more efficient and regular maintenance of roads, which is Serbia's development goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3214	The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3215	Dear Chairman, Madam Minister, fellow MPs, today we have proposals for an agreement that has not been the case before 2012 that we first vote on loans, and then we build roads, but it was -- first we build roads, we finish the job, and then we get in charge. This principle that has been adopted by the government since 2012 and the new government that was voted in 2014 is in fact the right way with which the foreign banks take you seriously as a state and as a ministry that needs to do a serious job, and one of the most serious jobs is infrastructure operations. We've heard a lot about the importance of these agreements, as far as traffic safety is concerned. I'm going to be very brief and concise to say what the economic significance of the start of this job is. In addition to ensuring the flow of goods and services and increasing in a large percentage, the quality of travel infrastructure in our country is measured against global organisations that have dealt with them, and there are 144 countries, so Serbia has placed some 122nd place and has shown that our infrastructure is not at an envious level, but you are thus showing that you are not even as interesting as you are, because every investor who wants to deal with a particular business wants to have secured infrastructure by the state. A master plan related to the transport of goods to Serbia, which meant some period from 2012 to 2027, was introduced to invest in the maintenance of these routes and in general construction of between 4.6 billion euros and 5 billion euros. What is interesting is these current agreements, i.e. the draft law on borrowing on these projects, which will amount to a total of 273.8m euros from both the European Investment Bank and the IBRD and the World Bank. Why does it matter? Because by investing through certain credit lines, we're going to get a more competitive economy, globally. That was the best indicator you've got is "Fiat". "Fiat" has conditioned its production and opening of its production capacities by building certain roads, which in the past have not happened because they are reduced to the level of regional roads, and then they will be built in approximately a reasonable period. The state must not be insecure when it promises investors that certain infrastructures will be built, and that does not happen. It'll eventually come to the realization of this kind of contract. That's why this borrowing is one of the development chances of our economy. We all know that the construction industry is practically 27% down last year from what was until 2012, and then it was in a very difficult situation. And today, we have companies that are in restructuring, which are practically bankrupt, which are in the construction industry. The travel industry is in a slightly better position than construction, but when you run construction works in the road infrastructure, then all the accompanying companies are involved in this kind of performance, so it will really boost some economic growth, even from 1%, but it is very important for us, because it will preserve many jobs that are practically somewhere in this dam. What is more important is to say that our obligation to different types of agreement, and also directly to specific investors, is to build a certain road infrastructure first, and then to build production capacities. I would like to commend the preparation of this agreement because it is given in detail, what some colleagues have not seen, and these are details of credit borrowings, even when we talk about interest, which is why they are favourable, which is why it is very important that you start and enter into road construction, and during that time you collect compensation from the same routes, that the state will benefit multiple times. So, what is foreseen by the 2013/2014 budget. The year really needs to be realized, and after the payment of the war and a certain grace period and budget, you get more traffic in terms of financial movements. What's very important is that in this bill it's given what will look like a team to implement these projects, that the financial resources we pull through the credit lines will go through the withdrawal of certain tranches, that the realisation team, which is made up of our domestic tolls, will be the one to control the coffee will be the realisation of this loan. So it won't be able to happen as in the past to pull certain credit lines, and we can't finish the roads, so our paths won't be built for 12 years, and that small shares, but according to this plan, which is defined, will have to be realized. I'd say the significance is multiple. Most of them all talked about traffic safety, but this economic part that concerns the creation of new jobs and the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are in this area, which is the part that concerns the service sector that helps the travel industry, or our road users, is very important. Today every job, every company that has a job, is the essence of developing an economy. What is still to be said is that a strategic plan has been well made with this agreement and shows that this transport sector has, in certain parts, been unsettled, but has begun to get a form of order and is beginning to gain quality. I would still support this agreement with some details that have so far not been interesting for some of my colleagues, which is that the agreement relating to 73,800,000 has an interest rate of six months of the eurobor plus 0.45%, and that the present fee is 0.25% of the amount of the loan. The share of certain wars is only 5% and refers to part of the payment by 15 June 2018. That shows the essential part of being completely controlled by these finances. So, as certain situations go, so certain tranches will be withdrawn, so that these interest rates will not, if we are worthy of the realization of such projects as states, cause great costs. What is more important, which is that in the contract relating to the European Investment Bank, the first date of repayment of the tranche is 60 days, meaning from the withdrawal date, and no later than four years after the withdrawal. So far, we have had the case that many credit lines, for which the state has negotiated and for certain purposes provided, have not been withdrawn as a state due to a lack of specific project documentation, so we've been going on to pay for big foams because of it. With these agreements and projects like these as states, we reduce the costs of which the budget is burdened by our unhappiness. The loan agreement by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development shows that the minimum amount of cancellation and early repayment is 100,000 euros. So the interest rate is variable, but it can also be fixed according to the standard terms of the bank. This interest payment date is June 15th and December 15th and applies to each year, and is paid to 24 equal semi-annual wars and the first date of the year following the conclusion of the loan agreement. All of these are details that show the seriousness of such an agreement, the seriousness of the work that lies ahead of the Ministry of Infrastructure and shows that the SNS, headed by Mr. Vukic, has shown seriousness in this part of the work in which the state has acted irresponsiblely until 2012. That's what all the reports from world organisations say, and even those investors who are supposed to come here to Serbia and open their capacities. What needs to be supported today, as well as other parliamentary groups, which are not part of the ruling coalition, should show their responsibility to the tasks ahead of Serbia and support such agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3216	The word is made by MP Milan Latkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3217	The Honored Chairman, respected Minister Mihajlovic, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, proposed legislation on the agenda today under the first joint single search concerns the road rehabilitation and improvement of traffic security project, which resulted from the signed contracts and agreements with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on 27 November 2013. We will allow the adoption of the bill to achieve a basic objective which we consider to be extremely important, which is to rehabilitate the national road network, facilitate road traffic, increase safety, as well as make it more efficient and economical for the implementation of works and the management of the road network. That is why I will point out in the beginning that the SPS parliamentary group will support the draft laws in the voting day. These agreements came as a result of the need to improve and improve the traffic infrastructure that the Ministry of Transport together with the EU has developed into a master-general of Serbia's transport plan, which envisions investing 4.6 to 5 billion euros in road maintenance and rehabilitation, between 2009 and 2027. I would stress that the importance of these agreements, in addition to the Ministry of Transport, has also been recognised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has foreseen investment loans necessary for the implementation of the road rehabilitation project and for the improvement of traffic security. In the context of my address, I would like to say a few sentences about the concrete projects that are foreseen by the treaty, or agreements, which cover the problems of the area from which I come. As part of the road section, one envisions rehabilitating the road and improving the safety of traffic on the Adaševci-Kuztin highway, and three envisions rehabilitation of Sremska Mitrovica-Ruma and Ruma-Petinci shares. In addition, rehabilitation is foreseen on the part of the regional road Ruma-Iriski Venac, Irig-Vrdnik, Ruma-Shabac, Ruma-Putinci. I believe that many of us know that when we enter Serbia from Croatia, just on the part of the Adashevci-Kuztin highway, the situation on the stock is very bad, with the presence of expressed slopes and tracks, which, after driving along the highways of neighbouring countries, you will admit, leaves an even stronger impression of truly insecure and insecure shares. That's why for me, and I believe for the other MPs who come from the area, this is extremely important. Rehabilitating and improving this part, as well as regional roads, will create conditions for faster, safer and safer traffic to this part of Serbia. I remind you that this part of Corridor 10, which, apart from connecting Serbia with Croatia, Slovenia and Austria and Europe, connects Serbia with Hungary, the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway, and also with Macedonia, Bulgaria and Greece. I would add that Serbia also connects with Republika Srpska and BiH traffickers this part of the road. For those of us living in Srem, this will mean better infrastructure, better travel connections, greater potential for attracting investment, both domestic and foreign. It will also enable the development of tourism and familiarity with the natural beauty of Srema, for example, Bara Zasavica's reservation or the National Park of Fruska Gora, not only for domestic guests, but also for foreign guests, but also for those in transit. This is particularly important and precisely because road transport represents a dominant mode of transport in the Republic of Serbia, with an interest of around 80% in goods transport and 74% in passenger transport. Now, hopefully, it's clear to everyone how important it is to propose laws. Finally, I would like to say once again that the SPS parliamentary group will support all the government's efforts to improve and improve transport infrastructure in Serbia and will support the draft legislation in line with this in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3218	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, and let the MP Mujo Mukovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3219	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, we are all aware of the situation in which our travel network, i.e. the travel network of our country, is, what are our paths that millions of our citizens travel every day, but also of the foreigners our country serves for transit to other destinations. We have heard very worrying statistics, that 70% of our roads are in relatively poor condition, and only 8% of our local roads to meet the prescribed standards. Also, we are aware that due to insufficient equipment and adequate maintenance of the road network, severe car accidents and fatal tragedies often occur, and any lost life is irreparable, both for the families of the victims and for society in general. Unfortunately, because of the economic crisis that has not passed our country, the recent years have seen a trend in the reduction of investment in the maintenance of the existing road network, whose consequences we are already feeling, and we are likely to feel another few years. To make things worse, the last catastrophic floods that happened to us, our ruined travel network was further destroyed, and the dives in some places destroyed every evidence and sign that there was once a highway or a regional road. On the other hand, the transport of goods and services, the transport of goods and materials, as well as the transport of passengers are crucial for our country, both for the development of domestic economy, economy, trade, tourism, but also for compliance with world standards and integration with countries in the environment and countries we seek, and these are EU countries. With this in mind, I would like to point out that maintaining road infrastructure in our country is of great importance to the Republic of Serbia, both in terms of the safety and health of people, as road users and for the development of our economy in general. At the same time, I must point out that maintenance of the road network, especially maintenance of major traffic, highways, cannot and must not be the ultimate goal, but if the highways of the main artery that draw the biggest traffic and transport, we must not ignore the peripheral parts, therefore, capillary infrastructure, because, as we know for ourselves, it is very easy to take out these peripheral parts. So not only the maintenance of existing roads, but the permanent upgrade and construction of road infrastructure is one of the most serious conditions for the country's development, but safe roads are also a guarantee of reduction of accidents on the roads that the media inform us about on a daily basis. As for the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, this arrangement, which is just ahead of us, aims to support the revitalisation of the road network in four moves and directions that are all important. Money will not be a problem, even part of the funds will be accepted through donations, with the aim of informing and informing the public about improving traffic safety. On the other hand, we all know that this government is much better than all previous governments, it's very up-to-date and it won't come into the situation to pay for the penalty due to the untimely withdrawal of funds from the loan. We all know that the importance of this project is clear and understandable to everyone, so in the future we will certainly pay much more attention to this problem for the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3220	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic. Let Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3221	Dear President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by welcoming Mr Miodrag Poledic, State Secretary, as they did not read at the beginning of the session that he was present today in the hall. As for Mrs. Mihajlovic, we have seen from the discussion so far what problems are in this area and I really want to congratulate her on the courage she has accepted to lead this portfolio, because the situation in this portfolio is really very difficult. We have three legislative proposals before us today. It is loans with the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, or the World Bank. The project of all three of these loans is rehabilitation of roads and improving traffic safety. There are two key reasons why I will vote personally for all three draft laws, and I hope and I am sure of the parliamentary group I belong to. The first is to improve the safety of traffic and reduce the number of accidents, whose number is far above the European average, as it is among us some 100,000 people, the number of people killed nine, and in the EU it ranges between three and six. Another reason is the development of a travel economy which is the main momentum for the country's economic development, and that is another reason why it is mandatory to support these draft laws. As we have heard from the Deputy Prime Minister and from other discussions here, the allocation of road maintenance funds in our country is far beyond the need, so it is necessary to intervene with these loans and try to raise the level of travel economy, as far as possible, at least to get close to some European standards. If we take into account the fact that from 144 countries in 122 places, and not so long ago, in 2008 and 2009, in 83 places, we see that things are not going well in this area and that it is high time and I hope that this government and this minister will make great efforts and we will no longer go down the path, we will start to improve things in this area. As a member of the Bosniak People's Party and a member of the SNS parliamentary group, I will refer to the state of travel in the Sandzak municipalities. We heard from the Minister's statement that the situation in our country is far worse than the surrounding countries. If I tell you that in Sanjak municipalities, then the situation is far worse than the average state of affairs in our country, then you'll understand the state of the road economy in the Sanjak municipalities. I'm just going to set an example of two routes. Namely, in this specification, which is an integral part of this financial contract, I have not been able to find the routes of Novi Pazar-Senica, especially Novi Pazar-Tutin. I can tell you that the road route of Novi Pazar-Tutin, which I passed this morning, is in such a state that it should be closed, that, of course, this route should certainly be thrown out of use, because it is less than 30 kilometers long, and it is necessary by car to travel for about an hour and a half. It's about the state path of second order. I don't want Minister Mihajlovic here to respect why he's not here in this specification, I don't even know who made the specification, to tell you the truth, whether it's "Serbian Ways" or someone else, but I'm sure as we increased the number of ministers from Sandzak, so our travel business in Sandzak was getting worse. When these two routes are at stake, there have been international activities. Turkey was included. At the time of the visit, first the Turkish president and then the prime minister, there were stories of construction, as if Serbia could not build those two roads. It's not much of an investment for Serbia, I must say. We raised this to the highest level, that President Tadic, President Gul and the aforementioned ministers from Sandzak promised everything and everything, highways, and to this day, the situation is getting worse. That is why I ask you, Mrs. Mihajlović, if possible, especially this route from Novi Pazar - Tutin, because it is truly in catastrophic condition, to have that in mind. Since you said that this specification isn't exactly final, to try to make an effort afterwards to do something about it on the road, even if it's partially reconstructed, so it can still be used, and it's very important because it connects Tutin to the New Market, actually to the whole world. The situation on this second route to Novi Pazar - Sjanica is somewhat better, but there are also needed works, so it is possible to leave it for some later stage. I don't want to owe you any more, but I want to tell you that you're going to have a lot of work to do in this area. I'm dealing with circumstances other than politics, and I'm dealing with this travel industry, and that's my profession, so I know the situation in that area. I hope that you will be able to stop these negative tendencies, and when it comes to our road companies dealing with this activity and the "Serb Roads" and "Corridori" and that you will simply introduce order in those areas, that we will finally take the upstream route in this area as well. That is what the citizens of Serbia of each part of Serbia rightly expect from us and I hope that we will allow them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3222	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the motionor, Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3223	Once again, in this rehabilitation plan, when we talk about Raska and the whole area, 199 kilometers will be covered and all roads are on the front row. What you mentioned is the paths of the second row, and they can be part of it. What we're going to do for sure, because we really said that there might be a need to change some things, it's going to be reviewed one more time, it's going to look at one more criteria, but let's leave it for now. I can't tell you whether or not we're going to change that, but in any case, these are all the ways of the front row, and it's not a little bit. I agree, it's not enough, but let's get going. We'll check it out one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3224	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milanka Jevtovic Vukojičić, and let the MP Vladimir Djukanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3225	The Honorable chairman, Madam Minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, for the Serbian Progressive Party, the strategic definition is the economy, economy and economy. However, in order to achieve economic development and progress, some preconditions must be reached in order to attract investment, and hence the economic development of our country, which, of course, as a Serbian Progressive Party and as a responsible party and responsible government, we seek. One of these preconditions is certainly to rehabilitate roads and increase road safety. Today, we have three international financial documents, i.e. a proposal to confirm the law on three international financial documents, which concerns a loan to improve, i.e. to rehabilitate road infrastructure and increase road safety. The total funds are 300m euros and these funds come from the European Investment Bank, from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, from the World Bank and, of course, from the Republic of Serbia at 116.2m euros. What I would first point out is that these financial components are different. Namely, the funds that we receive from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are directly defined exclusively for the rehabilitation of road infrastructure, and the funds that we receive from the World Bank and the European Bank and the European Investment Bank except for the rehabilitation of roads and the increase of safety on them, we get for some other project activities and I will point out later. Of course, the situation on our roads isn't that it's not good and it's for many reasons. One of the reasons is, certainly, that the most significant routes and most of the road infrastructure, which in the Republic of Serbia has 40,845 kilometers, were designed around 1980 when there was actually no Public Road Safety Regulation, so as to implement safety on the roads to these projects, we certainly cannot talk. Of course, modern design also involves the integration, i.e. the implementation of road safety segments, but besides the implementation of road safety certainly involves easy use, i.e. easy road management. It is a reconstruction of 1,125km of highways and regional roads. Otherwise, the highways in the Republic of Serbia have 5,525km, regional roads have 11,540km and local roads, these are the roads that are unfortunately in the worst condition, which is the most, which is 299.0km. Of course, there is no sudden rehabilitation and increase of security on all roads, but in the next five years the implementation of this project will certainly make for strengthening, changing Augustes, strengthening and repairing Augustes and construction on the part of the road from 1,125km. As for the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", it is for 14 contracts, and for some 300km of roads it will do project-technical documentation from personal funds. This is some pre-financing, and the project technical documentation of other projects will be spent on the appropriations from approved international loans. What I certainly want to point out is that this project is the first time in the Republic of Serbia that is present. the software approach for the taking of money, i.e. in order to take over the money, all indicators for the taking of the tranche must be met. This means that a report must be submitted to those who give us money, which is banks, about planned and realised objectives from the project, and only after that are approved tranches of loans that can be withdrawn and that can be used for the implementation of the project. What I particularly want to point out is that apart from strengthening and improving the quality of the roads that we are normally on the very bottom of the scale in Europe, although we are somewhere on the EU level by the density and distribution of the travel network, I have to stress that, apart from strengthening the quality, some more programming activities that will be implemented through the project are very important. These are project activities related to the environmental management programme, which means that credit users, i.e. we are obliged to submit an annual report from which environmental protection will be seen, from which health protection will be seen, from which people's safety will be seen, which will be included specifically in the works. It is also important to point out that one of the programming activities, is the plan and the social inclusion programme, that is, one of the project activities is monitoring, as only the performance of these works reflects the social environment, i.e. the population that is close to carrying out the work. Of course, the first, from the beginning of the implementation of the project is planned last quarter of 2014, of course this is and how significantly from the investment aspect, from the economic aspect, from the aspect of the safety of our citizens on the roads, from the aspect of safety and security of the roads themselves. The Serbian Progressive Party will certainly support and we hope, Madam Minister, that all of you, with your knowledge, with your responsibility and with your energy and how you will contribute as a ministry and as a minister of implementation of all project activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3226	Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic has the word, and let the MP Vladimir Pavicevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3227	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Madam Minister, or the last time we talked about certain loans here, I can't stand that word, so I don't like the word credit at all, because nobody's debt is a good friend, so of course not a physical person, and neither is the state. But what's there is, that's our situation, we just have to put ourselves in charge. I have to commend the government, especially because of this credit from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development because it's really the most favourable thing, but not only that, but because here when the agreement itself is read, we see that absolute trust has been achieved here, because these people are letting us control everything that we're going to do, which is not the case with these two other loans, which is normal, because everyone wants to ensure that we see what he's given the money for. There is indeed a maximum trust here from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and there is a great deal of respect for the credibility of both the government itself and the president himself and the general state, which is a great success. But what I have to ask you is, we take these loans, of course, are favourable interest really, from 0.8% to 1.3%, it seems to me interest, as I understand it, which with these grace periods of five years really is something that is favourable. I'm also interested in telling us how much domestic operations will be involved in these road reconstructions and their security. I see that in this loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Roads of Serbia are the main contractors, but these two other loans do not show this, so I wonder how many domestic operations will be included in the full story at all. I think it would be good to just say it to the public. What I still have to point out, which is, what is always moving from, and that's what I didn't like, and that's, let's say, when I looked at a list of roads that were being reconstructed, otherwise I agree with my colleague Mukovic, who came through from Novi Pazar to Tutin knows what disaster means. A man is absolutely right, in the Raška area that part of the road is the most urgent, either to close or to reconstruct it, because it is everything but the road. Let's say the roads in eastern Serbia, in particular, I'm talking about the Negotin region, these people asked me there, because my mother is from there, and among other things, I've been around that area a lot and during the elections. You know, there are really roads somewhere in the ranks of that period of Highduk Veljak and Chuchuk Stane. I don't think they've been reconstructed ever since. When you approach the city of Negotina, you have a creepy situation, you can go from three directions. You can come from Dolje Milanovac, you can from Majdanpek, you can from Zaječar. This time from Zaječar to Negotina is and God help, but these two are truly disastrous times. If you're coming from Belgrade, and the city is very important because we have Đerdap there, because that's where we have the chemical IHP IHP "Prahovo". Of course, it's a vineyard area and whoever wants to drink good wine there can always come. It's simple, no investor can come there, because you don't have any normal pathways. Personally, when I was in the campaign alone, I have to admit I had two defects on my car. I drive to say, Fiat Steelo car, which is as long as it can take, but there are really scary holes on the road, I've had two defects myself and roads are full of corners. Unfortunately, a lot of youth died, driving good cars, and there is often an accident that I don't understand, which is why it wasn't defined to make some kind of road there. I see they were just taken from Kladov to the Fast Palanca and from Negotin to the Bulgarian border, which is really small. There is absolutely a need for all roads to be fixed, because none is absolutely wrong. So it's a complete disaster as far as travel infrastructure is concerned. And by the way, I hope that these funds will somehow move a little bit towards that end, because it seems to me like it's forgotten, like it's a appendix. We have a huge outflow of the population from there which is an additional big problem and the city is simply dying. He threatens to lose the status of the municipality because the number of inhabitants obviously will not meet the criteria for being a municipality. So I'd like to ask you to think about it and help out as much as possible. I'm only interested in, the funds that the Republic of Serbia is obliged to provide with this money that we will provide from abroad, and I'm interested in how are we going to provide these resources that we are obliged to provide, since we are in the situation in which we are? What bothered me, we kept taking loans or getting different road donations, and our paths got worse and worse. I'm interested, if you can tell us, as Minister of Traffic, how much money has it been since 2000, entered Serbia here to reconstruct our paths, so that they can be made, and why do we today have the travel infrastructure that we have, where we're really being bypassed in a wide port, go across some other countries, they won't go across Serbia, because our paths are truly equal to complete disaster? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3228	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative in the government, Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3229	Thank you for your findings, as well as these questions and, you are one of the few who have noticed that the terms of both of us and of each other and of the third, in fact of the loan, that is, this agreement, which indeed, I also think also confirm the credibility of this government. What's significant is the domestic operation you asked about. The domestic operation should be hired 100%. So, "Serbian Roads" are not only "Serbian Roads", they are the ones who will organise one part of the job, or we will have public calls, as I said, for performers and for supervision and geographically speaking, we will always invite at least five road companies from that part where the rehabilitation of the road network will be carried out under these three agreements. As for eastern Serbia, we saw here, rehabilitating the path from Negotin to the border. Of course that's not enough, and when you look at all the shares, if you look at each end of Serbia, we would find a lot of things that would still have to be rehabilitated. Since we have 5,000 kilometers to rehabilitate and with these three agreements, that is, with this money that we have, we're going to rehabilitate 1,100 kilometers. Serbia has provided money. These are, as I said, projects that have been working on for two years and last year the budget provided the money, with it not being given in 2014 but in 2015. We have an obligation of 116.2 million to give and it was one of the terms of the creditors that Serbia also participates in such a single project this time. As far as the money that is entering the country is concerned, I still don't have the exact donation information, because I have information that the road maintenance donation was not and that, above all, Serbia's roads had certain loans, not by delay, but simply the rest that was not used, we have only 30m euros and we have projects in Serbia's 1.2 billion-euro corridors that we have used only 300m euros for now. Currently, when we talk about projects on the manual network, currently in Serbia, therefore, the value of these projects currently being done is about a billion euros. So about a billion euros are projects of a variety, and they are related to the road network. What I think is significant, and it's about other species, about the railways, where we've had some delays, certain loans that have been taken, which is why we've had some problems, but that's not a topic right now. I think I've answered all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3230	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic, and let the MP Branka Karavidic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Ms. Mihajlovic, I think it is the custom in one democratic state and one democratic order that all the issues and all the proposals sent by the executive authority to the legislative body are governed by one reasoned debate. I don't think there are any conditions here for one such debate today, and I hope you'll allow me to explain this position, and I think it's about this agenda point and it's very important. The Serbian government, if I understand correctly, adopted yesterday on 16 June a proposal to the National Assembly for a law on the confirmation of a financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, "Rehabilitation and Road Safety", then the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement and in point 3, once again, the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement. It was all adopted and filed yesterday. At the same time, the government asked for the urgent process to be discussed on these three proposals. In the light of the urgency of the request for an emergency procedure, it states – the reasons for the adoption of this law stems from the fact that the withdrawal of funds under the Loan Agreement is conditional upon the entry into force of the law on the confirmation of the loan agreement. Look, the logical question for me is here now, if the necessity is so great, if the urgency is such, why, then Mrs. Mihajlovic, did the government fail to ratify this agreement by May 25th? There was plenty of time after the parliamentary elections and after the constitution of this call for the National Assembly and after the formation of the Government to have someone in that government, for example Minister Krstic or you think about it, so when you say here they can't start working until the funds are withdrawn, even for May 25th, it was also valid. I believe that if the Government comes here today, that the Government's representative, by emergency procedure, talks with this explanation, before, the Government's representative must say that the government was irresponsible, which by May 25th, has not been ratified, because every citizen, every MP, can say here, if it's such an emergency to take the money, what have we waited until June 17th, and why haven't we been able to do it until May 25th? The third thing, this is to me so far the biggest surprise, the urgent procedure, asked 205 MPs to the unseen, at the moment that the government submitted 205 of them, and I conclude the following – those 205 MPs instead of doing what the work of the MPs, representatives of citizens in the legislative body, in the National Assembly, is that we are all in control of the work of the executive government together, 205 MPs who sign this request, they are ruling this government. Then I conclude that in this assembly, in this call of this National Assembly, one of the most important democratic principles is not understood, every democratic order, and that is the principle of division of power. We here have to perform, as much as we like some people in the Serbian government, with one suspicion, with one criticism, to check and give ourselves extra time, not to deny ourselves time and support the government when it requires urgent action. I mean, gentlemen, whatever you're not convinced of what I'm saying, I see it on the basis of your reactions, but I'm not comfortable with the presence of such a single outcry, but I think that in one order of politics it's called irresponsible behavior, in this case, not just government, not just some ministers in this government, but a certain number of MPs who instead of controlling and criticising the government, executive power, are ruling this government. I think it's a matter of irresponsibility. Look, today, I think, once again, for me it's completely unexpected, that we are coughing for some democratic customs and some democratic practice here. We need to provide some time for an argument here, not give up that time and contribute to the humiliation of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3232	Thank you. I would ask my colleague to read the agenda next time, since this is a session proposed by the MPs, not by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so he will see that there is a report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, two points of the agenda, a report on the work of the Fiscal Council, as well as a report on the operation of the Central Register, all of which with the intention that MPs wanted to participate in the work of the National Assembly and that the National Assembly played its control role. Among other things, the draft laws proposed by the government were also found. The word is Mr. Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3233	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, Article 106(1) - the speaker can only speak about the agenda point. I didn't know that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly today was a topic of the agenda, probably to speak, because the previous speaker, and you didn't warn him, spoke more about the very process of calling the session, the speed. There's a saying in our people, it's not a saying -- when someone can't agree with themselves, it's the most dangerous. You know, when he can't make a deal with himself, when at one point he's upset that something isn't faster, why it's not May 25th, it's June 16, 17th, and then he's bothered by the speed of why we called the session yesterday, us 208, so today this is on the agenda. It's dangerous, when there's no same principle, when there's no same requirement, when class is a little bit in the fifth speed, class is in the first, and most often in reverse. You know, this government drives at maximum speed. What we have left of the country is not Mercedes, unfortunately, I would be happier, than one refurbished "Jugo". I hope that in the future we will make the "South" "Mercedes", as we have done in "Icarbus", as we will in many other cities and businesses in this country, and that we will drive only forward, into reforms, only in an orderly and stable state, and not in reverse. This, class one, reverse class, we're not going anywhere. So, just the same principle and agree on what you want, speed or standing. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3234	If you want to replicate, it can't, but if you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, which I couldn't do, go ahead. There's been a change in the chairman, so you're in an unusual situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3235	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have a replacement for the chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3236	Which member of the Rules of Procedure do you advertise?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3237	Article 103. I can read the first paragraph. "The MP shall have the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it shall be done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the injury has been done." Mr. Babic reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and in fact he replicated to me what I was saying earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3238	I'm sorry, MP, he didn't do it, but he was talking about you not talking about the agenda point, according to a member who bid as a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3239	Can I fill in? I've got another minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3240	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3241	Let me just add one more thing. I understand that sometimes it is necessary to chair this National Assembly of Replacements, that someone who may have gotten a little tired goes to rest and someone else comes, but that does not mean that there is discontinuity in the chairmanship of the National Assembly. And in that short period, Madam President, someone is responsible for that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3242	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I couldn't physically hurt the Rules of Procedure, so thank you. Do you want to vote on it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3243	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3245	Thank you. Article 107. A short-time speaker told us here...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3246	Just quote exactly what the member is in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3247	Article 107, dignity of the Assembly. We are experiencing here today from certain MPs to treat us as someone's mercenaries...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3248	Can you just individually what MP?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3249	A short-time speaker, in my presentation, I was the first to seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but apparently, they bypassed me, told us that here we are actually ruling the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that was the professorial way he treated us. I'm really sorry, nor have I got anyone to lead, and if anyone's working for the government, those MPs are doing it. Each of their performances is an additional percentage of the popularity of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3250	It's okay. So it's not the Rules of Procedure that got hurt. I heard. You've been very critical. It wasn't about you. I listened very carefully to your discussion. We're moving on to the list, because the injuries to the Rules of Procedure have really been too much in these few seconds, as far as I was able to sit at the table. The word has the People's MP Branaka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3251	Thank you. Dear President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I would not like to repeat what my colleagues have been saying in today's debate. They said it is rehabilitating 1,100km times, which requires 390m euros, part of which will provide the Republic of Serbia's budget, and part of the loan from these creditors, i.e. these draft laws, which are currently on the agenda. We all understand that the state of Serbia will have benefits from all this, but I have a few questions and I don't think anyone has looked back on them today. One of the issues is the obligation of the project bearer, this is the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", that I quote the Agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Article 3 of point 301 where it is said that the project's contractor prepares technical projects for road stocks financed from loan funds, based on recommendations given etc. One of my questions is that – did the "Serb Roads" provide projects for all of these shares? You said yourself that some of these shares could change. I will also quote in the descriptive part of the project Part A, which actually states that these shares can be changed, and which actually means that this is not the final list of all the shares that are going to work. I am showing one concern, which is that the institution of this project is the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", given everything that follows these months, these weeks its V.D. Director, these are various newspaper articles. I'm not quoting any author, I'm just going to say what the state auditor said in his report. He, for example, stated that he has filed criminal charges against this responsible person in this company for a series of malfeasances. It's one of the findings of the state auditor. Then, in the 2010 report, he also cited a number of irregularities in over 40 allocated businesses worth over 300m euros and so on. I will also remind myself that the Prime Minister himself at the cabinet session that we all had the opportunity to see, while the director of the Public Enterprise of Serbia presented a report on the condition of the roads destroyed by the floods, I quote, Drobnjak, when it comes to tenders, there will be someone standing next to you and checking, so it is safest. So my concern that all of this isn't going to be the way it's supposed to be is justified. At least that's what I think. As regards the European Investment Bank, shares to be reconstructed have been given in the project specification, i.e. technical description. I thank my colleague Djukanovic, who mentioned the Borski District, Negotin. I have a real objection, you yourself said in the opening statement that priorities were made according to the balance of shares, quotes, economic profitability and regional representation. As for the balance of shares and as far as regional representation is concerned, I don't think the Borski County is sufficiently represented. I can make that argument. Of 1,100km of roads that are said to be rehabilitated, the Borski District has only 60km of road. That's where I included a section of the Gate Bookhouse, which refers to the Zajčar County. So, I don't think it's proportionate that 60 kilometers should be assigned to one district. Of 54 shares, only two specifically refer to the Borski district. On May 14th, President Nikolic was in Majdanpek at the copper pipe factory and he passed through M24. I hope he shares my opinion exactly on the share of the Blagoev Stone-Majdanpek road. It's about 20 kilometers long and in an extremely bad state. I wouldn't want to use other words. It's part of the road that's borderline jurisdiction of the Fireman Road Company. So when it comes to regular spring, or summer patching of holes, that part of the last time comes to order, so we experience this summer patching of holes somewhere in September or October. One more thing, I think this is specific and I don't know how much you know, since you've been Minister for about two months now, the M24 highway has been passing through the center of the city of Majdanpek, with a slope of 11-12%, with no third tape, with a huge loader noise and a huge vibration. In 1995, a bypass was made around Majdanpek, a rink appeared, then a project was done to resuscitate the rink, tried to resuscitate, but even to this day, the bypass didn't work. I don't know how much you're aware of that part of M24 goes through the copper mine area of Majdanpek? Until recently, citizens, or passengers, were in extreme danger as they entered Majdanpek from Belgrade. Also, I hope you will have an understanding of these problems affecting the citizens of Majdanpek, as well as problems for fellow Muja Mukovic. I ask is it possible for any of these problems to be placed precisely in these priorities given in this table? I also have a few questions for you. Is there a synchronisation between the design of projects and the projected funds that are to come to "Serbia's Roads", or to withdraw? That's the first one. Are there technical projects for all these shares or at least for a part of those shares? Does the road company running this project have the capacity to implement this project? I think it's extremely important because, unfortunately, we'll probably be users of many more loans for this very purpose. Is there a danger of the state paying so-called. Penalties by unpunished means? I would ask as an MP who is not from the territory of the flooded areas, is there at all a possibility that these funds will repair the roads of the floodous area? I'm going back to V.D. Director of the "Road of Serbia" and I ask if criminal charges against V.D. JP's "Serb Roads" can threaten the project, since JP "Serb Roads" implements the project and is responsible for implementing it? I'm very glad the World Bank was careful, or I'm interpreting it that way, so it insisted on forming a board of directors. In the Implementation Mechanism section, the borrower will establish a Management Supervisory Board covering representatives of the Borrowing Ministry of Finance, Transport, Internal Affairs, Regional Development, Local Self-Government, as well as representatives of the project implementation unit and will have a monitoring function over the entire implementation of the project. I think this is positive, although I don't think all my colleagues agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3252	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3253	I wanted to answer the MPs' questions. I think it's very important to know. It is not up to one man and no project in Serbia can depend more on one man, but depends, above all, on the Serbian government. We are very responsible as a government and as a ministry that will be on that supervisory committee that you yourself mentioned. You asked a few things – are there projects and did JP "Serbia Roads" create projects? Yeah, for the whole first year, that's 210 kilometers, projects are being prepared. They are fully prepared, when the agreement is ratified and when the first tranche is withdrawn, that they can work. Also, you mentioned whether a region is represented enough or not? You mentioned, of the few criteria I set, only two. I'm for the respect of the profession and all those who worked on it. These are experts and travel companies, both the World Bank and the IBRD and the EIB, who have worked on criteria and based on these criteria selected all the shares that are, but in line with all the criteria, the most important. Of course the money doesn't have enough for everyone. That also applies to counterpart Mukovic, who also mentioned Novi Pazar. It will be looked at again, but it can't be because you're tied to an end or because I'm tied to an end, but to try to find what's the priority, and to match the state of August, to match economic profitability and the region and a lot more that's in the sub-criterias behind it. Also, we'll have an audit. In this first step, "Serbian Roads" will issue a public call for an auditor, 14 contracts and one supervision. A public call means that this public call will cover all those who can carry out such tasks. You asked if he had the capacity to implement? If, for example, a public company, today, spends annually on road maintenance of around 150 million, it has the capacity to carry out 150m euros, realised over the course of one year. If you look at these projects, it's about 70m euros a year. If we were to talk about the capacity of this public enterprise, it's capable. As for the application and all, regarding V.D. JP's "Serbian Roads", there are institutions and they have to do their job. This applies to both that director and any other director who has raised or not raised criminal, criminal, criminal, any application. I wouldn't get involved in that. I'd wait to see their answers. At the very end, let me repeat once again, why by emergency procedure and why today and how the Government adopted all of this yesterday and today appeared in the Assembly. In December of last year, an agreement has already been signed. It was in the previous government, it was adopted in the previous government. He had to go through a new procedure, the ministry again. After all, we now have different ministries. This ministry, which, together with the funding, is a proposing, as well as the Foreign Ministry, is now simply organised differently and simply had to be followed by the procedure. Practically, yes, it was yesterday, but second time, in a way. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3254	On what grounds? (Branka Karavidic, from the post: I just want to clarify. The replica can't. You have three minutes left and you can use it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3255	I just wanted to explain something. Maybe it's my fault. You really said there are three criteria - stock status, economic viability and regional representation. I know that Majdanpek and all of eastern Serbia so far have no economic viability and I suppose they meet these two criteria on which I put the accent. It is also very important, given that you are the Deputy Prime Minister, that the government should also take into account the areas that remain without its population. For example, the municipality of Majdanpek has lost 5,000 inhabitants in the last 10, 12 years. These are the edges of Serbia. These are the parts that run out of young people, so I know that economic viability wasn't a parameter in the case of Majdanpek and in the case of this section of the road. I'd like you to come and look at that part of the way, if not you, then one of your associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3256	According to article 96, the MP Sabina Dazdarevic uses his right. Call me if anyone else in article 96 wants to use their time to plan the end of the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3257	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable minister, at the beginning of the address, I would like to draw attention to the need and also ask that the government continue talks on Turkey's credit for the reconstruction of the Novi Pazar-Senica-Alinovici road, then the Novi Pazar-Pazar-Tutin road route as well as the Raška-Novi Pazar-Ribarici road crossing, the Split border crossing with Montenegro. These routes are of paramount importance, both for citizens living in Sandzak and for businessmen who use these routes daily. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that Tutin-Novi Pazar is on his way to the Blacksmiths' place almost to an end. The left August strip in length of 2.5 m has completely collapsed in the slide and all vehicles, cargo and passenger cars, use only the right August tape which is in front of the complete collapse. Such a problem poses a great danger to the lives of thousands of people who pass by every day. We ask that this share be included in the rehabilitation programme, because in a situation like this, where in five, six places, there is a risk of skating, threatens to completely end citizens' communication with the rest of Serbia. Students, high school and elementary school students, as well as employees working outside their place of residence, pass by daily. The municipality of Tutin and the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas concluded an agreement last year on the construction of a new route to connect the old road Novi Pazar-Tutin with the Ibar highway. The works on this stake are carried out by the Serbian Army, and it connects Tutin with the master's route to Novi Pazar-Ribaric, across the village of Hungary, Paljevo to Orasje near Ribaric. This is also an important road route, which in this situation can serve as a bypass and save the communication of the citizens of Tutin with the rest of Serbia. So the funds were provided by the Office for Sustainable Development in the past term of government. I'm asking you to make sure they're used, so we can get a new old road to Tutin-Novi Pazar, as well as the other routes I've set out. I would like to invite the minister to come and visit the old Novi Pazar-Tutin road and see for himself the danger that the citizens of the Tutin municipality face on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-17-0.u3258	Since the lists are no longer registered, I conclude a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 3 of the agenda. I thank Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic for today's work. I thank all the MPs. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
