ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9641	Thank you. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the Public Property Act are foreseen to replace the deadline of 3 years, with a deadline of 5 years, for the registration of public property. And on this occasion, I have to repeat that we practically have a proposal for a change, without hearing about the causes and reasons why the three-year deadline so far has not been respected. Is the question that there aren't enough employees in the state administration, which I doubt, but it wouldn't surprise me either, since the government, not after two years, here, just according to Mrs. Udovicki, Deputy Prime Minister, doesn't know the exact number of employees in the state administration, and I can only imagine how much for the government, when it's hard to count all the employees in the state administration... Chairman, if you'll excuse me, could you just try to secure order and peace in the O.R., please?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9642	I ask the MPs to allow Mrs Martinovic to present her reasons for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9643	Thank you. I believe that for a government that is hard to count precisely the employees of the state administration a very big problem to read the papers of immovableity, collect hectares and are and register public property, but I want to hear what's the reason for a three-year period to be extended to 5 years? If we don't have a cause for which the three-year term has not been respected so far, I don't see a guarantee that even a five-year-old will be respected. My question is, what exactly do employees in public enterprises, in the property-legal services of public enterprises do, is it possible that only managers are working there now, not graduate lawyers, and is it possible that all graduate lawyers have moved to notaries, so now there is no one to deal with the issue of public property?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9644	Mrs. Martinovic, will you use the time of the parliamentary group after your time is up?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9645	Yes, of course. Therefore, because the real reasons for non-compliance of three years have not been established, I find its extension unnecessary. It's not just a matter of time in this case. The problem is obviously the expertise of people who need to work on these jobs, the very procedure that is obviously complicated and very complex. I don't think by extending five years we're getting anything, since we don't know what the reasons are, and I don't think a 10-year term would be enough to sign up. I say, I'm not surprised that the government is unable to count or count, let alone determine what of the property belongs to the Republic of Serbia, what to the province, what to local self-government, what to public enterprises. Thank you, if there's anything I've said to you at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9646	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Sabina Dazdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9647	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 1. The draft law proposed a five-year period in which the AP and units of local self-government apply for the registration of property rights is not long enough, because a large number of municipalities and cities have not implemented this obligation, so it is necessary to extend the deadline for at least a year, as our amendment has been proposed. In fact, in the previous three years, which expires on 6 October this year, even 30% of public property has not been transferred from state ownership to local self-government. Therefore, an extension of only two years is not enough to start the process. Also, there is a problem with centralised catastrian services, such as There's a cadastre case in Sjenica where there are thousands of unfinished items. The reason for what it takes for someone from another cadastrian unit to sign documents that would not need to extend deadlines for their completion if the organisational structure of this and many other services in Serbia would be decentralised and reduced to a number of smaller independent administrative units. This ineffectiveness of the Catastrian services also prevents some other laws from being implemented, such as The law on the return of pastures and mornings to local self-government, where local self-government is tied to the implementation of their plans for the benefit of citizens. Given my party's policy, Sandzak's Party of Democratic Action, which strongly advocates Serbia's EU accession, decentralisation of catastrian services in Serbia is also needed to make a digital catastrian plan, i.e. as quickly as possible and within the framework of the new deadlines proposed. In order for the list of immovableities to be not only technical but also legal document, and in this sense, this deadline needs to be extended for another year, in order to meet the objective we have as a country that is a future EU member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9648	Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9649	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The honourable Deputy Prime Minister, fellow Members, is the essence of our amendment to Article 1 and Article 2 that the deadline proposed by this five-year extension law is to be reduced to four years, i.e. to extend that deadline to local self-government and AP in Article 1 for another year, not two more, as the Government has proposed. What was our intention and what we couldn't hear in the principle debate from the Deputy Prime Minister, to hear the reason why within the three-year period, the AP, local self-government and public enterprises didn't take advantage of the three-year deadline and ended this job? At the end of the debate, two days ago, the Deputy Prime Minister gave us a reason that there was no state body that followed the implementation of this law and some other laws, that now that we have the Public Policy Administration, there would now be a state body that would do so, but that we couldn't expect it to meet all expectations in the previous four months, with that already there are five months, as long as there is, that this government was elected. I wonder, how many months or years does it take for that administration to start working, to fulfill what was intended when it was founded with 37 permanent employees? It is our opinion that an additional year is more appropriate than the proposed two years, because local self-government, autonomous province, public enterprises have had enough time to prepare themselves, to start actions even though they have not done so so far. We believe that a year is a very appropriate deadline, especially if we look at a year from now, a practically pre-election campaign, will be half a year until the local elections, and then half a year from holding those local elections, that last year, hardly anyone in local self-government will be dealing with anything other than the election issue. Of course, the government didn't accept this amendment, we didn't expect it, but I do find it a really interesting explanation, and I think we're going to start making an archive of these arguments by the Government on the rejected amendments, because I think we should save it and then present it to the citizens, the public, because citizens and the public usually don't have a chance to hear and read what's in the arguments when the Government refuses some amendment. The government has rejected our amendment with the following explanation – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is more meaningful, given that the autonomous province, the units of local self-government need a longer period of time to obtain evidence, the documents to be submitted with a request for registration of public property rights on immovable property. What is interesting is that, in practice, the same amendment to Article 2, where I have also proposed a reduction from five to four years, the Government gives the following explanation – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is more consistent, given that public undertakings, social capital and their dependent societies need a longer period of time to collect evidence of the documents to be filed with the application for registration of property rights. So once it's more meaningful, the second time it's cellulent, and I'd like someone to explain that difference to me. What is the difference between a more meaningful and celery, because it is the only argument, a more meaningful word, or a more celery one? No other argument except that word that differs from case to case on the same case. I don't know who else to appeal to, that we don't get this kind of reasoning, that we don't get this kind of bill where it's said -- someone didn't do something within a certain time. Then when we say - who is it, how many entities did not do it, we cannot get a concrete answer. We didn't want to propose, we're going to vote against this law of course, regardless of the famous argument of the government that comes here with the law a day or two before the deadline or two, after the deadline for certain things foreseen by the law expires. What if this law isn't passed? We now have the Public Policy Administration, she should follow up on some deadlines under some laws, and I want to believe that this administration will light the lights in time, that if some deadline points out that it will give the government a signal that something needs to be done, not necessarily to extend the deadline, but to do something and to get the job done in time. If he can't and comes here, the law extending the deadline, that we hear who didn't do the job, which is why, whether it's some objective or some other reason, and if there are other reasons, not objective reasons, is someone responsible for not doing their part of the job. This whole debate today and these laws come down to the fact that the deadline is 6, that we need to adopt this today, that this will come into effect on the day it is published in "The Official Messenger", which is also contrary to both the Constitution and our legal order. Of course we can't vote for these laws. We've never voted, and we won't vote in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9650	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if this amendment had been written as I would have liked, I would have supported it, both this and the previous one, and I would have lobbyed both the legislators and the MPs to accept it, only to put in one position, perhaps two more, which is that the responsible persons who do not respect the deadlines get fired and answer criminally for the unconscious performance of their duties. Who would we get to? Well, to that administration that ruled in local self-government until 2012. 2013 Who would we get to? To the circuit administration. How can the former president of the municipality who did this job end up criticizing a government that isn't a job to finish? Then someone jumps in and says how could someone say it was dirty? It's not, like, rudely insulting intelligence, like there are illiterate people here, like we don't know whose jurisdiction. If we go to take away this property and enforce the law without these changes and additions, and everyone from the opposition will say, well, what kind of decentralisation is it when the property of local self-government and public enterprises, where is the founder of the AP and local self-government, moving into the ownership of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? The easiest thing to do is get up and criticize. I don't mind, but at least have a little consideration so you can accept your share of responsibility for this state of affairs. Here, if you had written such amendments, I would have lobbyed both with the government and with my MPs to be accepted, meaning that the persons and persons responsible for failing to comply with these laws would be fired first, and then they would also be held to blame. Just don't let your party friends get mad at you for putting them in jail and pushing them into the street, the ones you've hired over the past five or six years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9652	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9653	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in the opposition don't have much time in the media and we have to use every minute in this assembly room to say what's the fact, which is true, and what can't be heard on state and other televisions. What's the truth? It is true that today we are talking about amendments to the Law on Public Property, which was adopted in 2011, esteemed Mr. Arsic, and that these changes to local self-government, a new period of two years is given to the autonomous provinces to apply the law for which they have had three years to apply it. And what is the essence of this law enforcement? To enroll property as property, as their own property, ownership of local self-government or autonomous provinces. This is what citizens need to know. So the elections were in 2012, so about a year after this law was passed. You gentlemen are not to speak directly to Mr Arsic since 2012 in power. So, practically all the time applying this law and not only at the republican level, but you had a duty and obligation to oversee the executive government, so, the government, the competent ministry, and that's the Justice Department, let's also say the Ministry of Finance, to carry out this obligation. Gentlemen, you are, I mean, your coalition, in power at all levels, and in municipalities, and in cities, therefore, in most municipalities in Serbia and in all cities in Serbia, as far as I know, and even with your coalition partners and in the AP Vojvodina. Here, sit down, Mr. Pastor. He's been in power all along in the AP Vojvodina. He's also your coalition partner at the republican level. So you had a mechanism and to put pressure on the AP Vojvodina, the levers of power, to register this property. Why didn't you do it? I'm asking you, and I'm talking to citizens who need to know that only the only thing that's almost SNS with their coalition partners is responsible for the fact that municipalities, cities and provinces didn't sign up for their own name, that they didn't allow foreign investors to feel safer, because they have property of local self-government that they can freely dispose of and that they can use as their own. I am also speaking to the Prime Minister, the ministers, to ask what is happening to the laws they have proposed to this government or who have been obliged to apply. After all, I also speak to the President of the Republic of Mr Nikolic, who is due to sign these laws, who said yesterday well that he learned the Anthem of the Republic of Germany "Deutschland, Deutschland über alles" – Germany, Germany above all. Well, he should also have Serbia above all else, to see if this government is Serbia above all else and whether the laws it has passed or dealing with inter-party bickering, which via the media, which directly. It's a serious matter. You don't do your jobs properly, you don't apply the laws. This law is the best example. So it wasn't enough for local self-government for three years, now you're giving them new two years. Where is he, Mr. Arsic? We can ask a question of responsibility, but first of all, the responsibilities of your staff sitting in those local self-governments, which could have been in these three years or we could have said in two years to make enrolment, to deal with this business. What if they don't determine what's theirs? Were there any regulations? Maybe they did, but you could have changed those regulations, you could've accelerated the administration. Yes, we agree, suggest supplements through one of the boards of directors. We'll accept those remarks of yours. Let the responsibility of those who do not comply with this law be strengthened. This is a very important law on legal security, and I would say order in the state. Thank you. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9654	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the European People's Party Youth delegation, which is currently following today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic Mr. Stefanovic, you answered the amendment? [[Veroljub Arsic, from the site: I was looking for a replica.]] Yeah. ) Replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: He mentioned me personally three times. ) (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Who insulted whom? Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't understand why the MPs of the former regime are so nervous whenever we chair that word. I knew former regime MPs were political geniuses, but that to that extent they were geniuses, I didn't know that. So it is said here that literally SNS is responsible for the fact that autonomous provinces and units of local self-government have not filed a request and adequate evidence and documents to register property rights on the immovable property they use. What does the SNS have to do with the fact that, among other things, the AP Vojvodina and some units of local self-government have failed to apply for the registration of property rights on the property? I would remind the citizens of Serbia, the Law on Public Property did not bring SNS. The Law on Public Property was passed by parties to the former regime, parties still ruling the AP Vojvodina today. Here, first of all, one previous question – whether the three-year term for enrollment of property rights used by autonomous provinces and units of local self-government was real, given... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Time. Your time is up, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9656	Time, Mr. Martinovic. Time's up for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9657	I'm the one who picked up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9658	You didn't sign up for the amendment. You applied for the replica. You've got the basis for the replica. So if you're up for the amendment, wait for the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9659	I answered after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9660	Mr. Martinovic, your time is up. Come in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9661	Well, I answered the amendment, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9662	The word is made by the People's Messenger Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, Mrs. Udovici, a respected guest from the ministry, I believe that a member of 104 has just been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when, Mr. Becic, you gave the right to the replica of Mr. Martinovic and, in my interpretation, Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr. Martinovic did not have the right to reply because no one mentioned Mr. Martinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9664	Mr. Pavicevic, please don't interpret. Let me answer, you asked me a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9665	Let me finish two minutes, Mr. Becic, I'm entitled to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9666	You can't finish because I don't want you to take advantage of the breach of the Rules of Procedure for what you want right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9667	I'm explaining...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9668	You don't explain well. You don't have the right as a People's Messenger to interpret whether anyone has the right to replication or not. It only reads in the Rules of Procedure, so unfortunately, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9669	I have the right to intervene. You, the Honorable Chairman, are now in violation of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that the MP has the right, I am a People's MP, one of these here, to verbally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, and I have the right to, in two minutes, on the basis of Article 103, explain how you have injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9670	Mr. Pavicevic, if you said it as you say it, I wouldn't interrupt you, but you said you were deciding whether someone hurt the Rules of Procedure, in this case Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9671	I'm explaining.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9672	It's not worth convincing with you. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9673	It's been two minutes now, and what am I supposed to do now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9674	I'll give you two minutes again if it pleases you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9675	They will, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9677	To repeat, I have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 104, the Honored Chairman, Mr. Becic. Article 104 defines when someone is entitled to a replica. I also felt that on the basis of Article 103, I had the right to explain why Mr. Martinovic had not been given the right to speak, because the previous speaker did not mention him, nor did he make an offensive statement about him, nor did I conclude that he misrepresented something Mr. Martinovic spoke of. Dear Mr. Becic, when you give the right to a replica on the basis of nothing from the SNS, you place the MPs from the government and the MPs from the opposition who would never, in the same circumstances, be entitled to a replica. I believe, dear Mr. Becic, that this is a big problem, not only Sarapin, but the problem of all of us, which leads us to the fact that you may become the impression of the week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9678	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. You're going on like yesterday. It's in your manner. I repeat again that you do not interpret whether anyone is right or not. You can explain why I broke the Rules of Procedure, believing that I had no right to give someone the right to reply, but you can't decide whether anyone has a right or not and you can't interpret whether someone has a right or not. Only I and I can use Article 104 to exercise the rights laid down in Article 1 and Article 2 of this article shall be decided by the President or by the chairman of the National Assembly. I estimated that in the presentation of speakers, Mr. Martinovic was deputy head of the parliamentary group, the head of the parliamentary group was not present, and the parties were mentioned in a negative context and I thought he was entitled to the replica he used. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement on this in the voting day? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes, I do. I thank you. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9679	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you hurt a member of 108 who says that the work and way of holding a session is the old president of the National Assembly or the one who replaces it. I think that what you allow and this is how you lead introduces a chaos into the work of the Assembly, bringing the unequal position of the MPs who have responded to the word, and I don't think I know by now which way is repeating your disastrous leadership of the National Assembly, absolutely correct. I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. I want to vote, because when you run the National Assembly, there is a lot of chaos in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9680	Thank you, Mr. Miatovic. The assembly will declare itself in voting day. The word of the messenger of the people, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, is according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9681	Thank you. I, unlike my colleagues, don't think you're a disastrous leader of this congregation. There are those in your place and those who take a lot worse care to apply this Rules of Procedure, and that is exactly my intervention. Article 27 obliges you to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure as Vice-President of the Assembly. This means that although the argument given to Mr Pavicevic in a narrow sense is true, it means that you can decide not on the basis of your arbitrary assessment whether someone from the SNS or not, but whether the conditions laid down by Article 104 have been obtained. There is a children's chorus of Kolibri one song "Please for a nice silence". It's obviously a song that you want to mark two years of power to spend. But the congregation won't go like that, because we can't have someone overnight telling us that we've dropped our ratings, so they shut us down, and if they can, we'll soon see that they can't go anywhere else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9682	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. That's exactly what I did. That's my assessment. Following the speaker's presentation was that Mr. Martinovic, as deputy head of the parliamentary group, had the right to replication. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Veroljub Arsic, by the replica, because it is directly mentioned several times by name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been given the right to replication based on the presentation of my colleague, Janko Veseinovic, because it is obvious that the MP, as it says in the Constitution, cannot be held accountable in any way to express his opinion or vote in the National Assembly. If not, the question arises, that we have listened and that we try to listen to what he has proposed to the government of the Republic of Serbia, to order the province's administration to do, to order the administration of local self-government what they should do. It is a direct violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What's the biggest problem since 2012 in local self-government? Like, debts. We want to talk about debts that have public enterprises in Vrnjačka Banja, about millions of dinars or Koserić, where in 2013, the government was lost by DS and other parties that later emerged? I don't want to get involved in this. It is obvious that this administration is not up to the law that was passed in 2011. I ask the question – what happened from 2011 to 2013 while your staff led those municipalities? In 2008, coalitions were made under the directive at a local site with DS. Among the two rounds of presidential elections under the directive were made to a coalition with the DS. More than 50% of those coalitions still work today. Don't blame the government of the Republic of Serbia for the incompetent administration of the local self-government you left us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9684	The word is made by the People's MP Balint Pastor, the Replic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9685	Thank you, Chairman. The replica of Mr. Veselinovic's presentation that he mentioned, blaming the SVM along with our coalition partners at the republican level, which was not carried out to transfer property rights to the AP Vojvodina. I don't think the double arches are good and we need to get back in time. On 19 September 2011, in a debate under the Proposal for a Law on Public Property, the Union of Duchy Hungarians proposed that public property in favour of the AP Vojvodina and the units of local self-government be entered in the manner of automation as envisaged for movable matters and as provided for then by the applicable Law on Planning and Construction, and related to building land. The bill was then explained by then by Deputy Prime Minister Mr Bozidar Djelic. Unfortunately, that amendment has not been adopted. If the SVM amendment had been adopted then, we would have already completed the whole procedure and today the National Assembly would not have to discuss extending the deadline of the Public Property Act. That's what I wanted to say for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the public. The NDS did not exist at the time, so now we can play by the MPs of that party having nothing to do with this bill and that the MPs of that party have nothing to do with the province administration since 2011 when the law came into force until today, but I want to say that it is not good when we give up the previous party councils and coalition partners lightly. If the SVM thought so, the DS would not be in power in the province today, it would be some other prime minister of the province's government rather than Bojan Pajtic, so I suggest you look up to the SVM on principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9686	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9687	I'm looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9688	Whose exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9689	At Mr. Pastor's and Mr. Arsic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9690	There's no replica in the replica and there's no such thing as looking for a replica. You can only pick up the amendment. Mr. Djurishic, whose replication? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: He mentioned the party. In a negative context? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: In the same context you gave him. Here you go, Mr. Giurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9691	Thank you, Your Honor. Please have the same criteria for everyone. So no one said anything offensive about Mr. Pastor, so he got the right to a replica. Please, since he was talking about his party being principled and my party not being principled, I think I have a lot of right to reply and I don't have to explain it. We voted for this law. For three years, they had autonomous provinces, administrations and local self-government to do so. Mr. Pastor said what they suggested three years ago, and if it was adopted today, we wouldn't be in this situation. What has been adopted three years ago is that when this three-year deadline expires, which is three days from today, the Republic of Serbia is registered as the property rights holder where local self-government, autonomous province, public enterprises have not worked. It may be a good way to punish those irresponsible individuals who have not done so in this time period. The property will not fail, will not disappear, will not be estranged, only the prime minister, when the law, if this law would not be passed in three days, would become the Republic of Serbia. Here's the ideal situation for not adopting this law to punish all those who haven't done their job in three years, not rewarding them at another two years. We have suggested a year of this amendment. You're looking for punishment, here's the punishment. I ask you not to pass this law, but to vote against it. The property will be the Republic of Serbia and we will have penalties for those who have not done their job and we may finally find out who has not done his job.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9692	The word has been made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9693	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. We certainly support this amendment, and we think it's in the spirit of the amendment submitted by the DS. We can solve this area by giving an additional but significantly shorter deadline compared to what was proposed. In that sense, anything the government would accept would be a significant step. What the government has proposed, in our opinion, is just a confirmation of negligence, intricacies, sloppyness that exists at all levels of your government, especially at the local level and at the level of public enterprises. Otherwise, since this regime has been in Serbia for over two years, it is exactly four-fifths of the deadline that you have set for yourselves, and you have not respected. So, as we said yesterday, you're giving yourself deadlines, you're treading them yourself, you're extending them yourself. You have both a knife and a cake and a judge and you do what you want. In 130 municipalities in Serbia, you are in power, in over 130 municipalities, and then a skillful attempt to manipulate a respected fellow from the majority who says it is the administration's fault. How's the administration's fault when it's known that in Leskovac, Mesko is the man in charge, God? How's the administration in Krushevec's fault? How's the administration in the King's fault, where you didn't know how to make a garbage can? It's not the administration's fault. Besides, in that administration, there are estimated 30 to 50 percent of the advances you've hired, and that's your fault. I don't think party employment is good with full awareness that my party did, but I think it should finally stop. Among other things, that's why you've been chosen to take a step away from that time, you're in no condition, because you're going to violate your positions. That's true. Tell me honestly, 4/5 of you are in power, 4/5 of you have failed to fulfil the obligation, 4/5 of the deadlines you yourself have set have not been able to execute your local Bolts, which you have set in Serbia and who do what they want. That's true. Not some Ćata in Koserić municipality, no, but world cooking champion in Koseric municipality, he did not. Let's be honest. So that's the meaning of these amendments. Let's try not to extend the deadlines you've set for yourself again, but let's ignore it. In order for the state to be more efficient, for people to be forced, you will not implement, you will not register the property, it becomes the property of the Republic of Serbia and it is over. End of story. Now let's see which of these people in the future when we hope to finally introduce laws that will choose people by name and last name in this country, and not like now, a set of mechanical rabbits that raise their hands, and then we'll see who will vote for those people when they haven't done anything alive. In some studies, 93% of Serbian citizens have no idea who's running their jobs, who did what at the bar, who's responsible for it. People are completely uninformed, uninterested. Unfortunately, where life is, where it is in contact with citizens, where it is democratic law, it is killed in Serbia, by centralization, by devising the political system, by the impressions of the week that you impose on this country, by the impressions of the week, by choking freedom, by destroying the economy, by reducing wages and pensions, etc. etc. Then when it comes...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9694	Mr. Stefanovic, I'd like to ask you to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9695	You think I went off topic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9696	I think you've gone off topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9697	I'm not sure, but the impression of the week will confirm that for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9698	You guys go back on the subject, and we're gonna do it another time on the impression of the week.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9699	Let's just see how I'm not on the subject. I'm asking you, Your Honor, I know that it's probably not pleasant for you to listen to these exchanges between us and most of us, but they're essentially the way to determine the truth. The truth is doubtless, this is the third time the deadline has broken, this is the 4/5 of your deadline that you have imposed on yourself and voted for it yourself, these are the facts. This is the possibility of not doing it again now, and it's a fact. Whether you vote for it or not, I don't think so, and that's a fact. The fact is, as you are, I'm not going to say the name, but I'm going to say, the great me in Serbia lifted the impression of the week, so now you're going to end another possibility of getting in line at the local level. That's the darkness. So, I ask you to at the local level and try to do it together, accepting any of the opposition's amendments. Any one of them. Yesterday I listened to, the day before yesterday, some of the discussions of distinguished colleagues from the majority, who agree with that. Then why this obstacle, what are you arguing about? Why don't we do this together now? Let us together all set a certain deadline that is significantly shorter than that proposed by the Government, or the Republic of Serbia will be "richer" for immovableity, or people will do it in a much larger scale than today, with full awareness that we and most of us have a clear view of the fact that sloppyness should no longer be. Do you have that capacity? Do you have that power? Do you wish to do so in Serbia? Let's at least do this little thing, little under the pretext, let's do this together, and not the mirror again, who's doing what, the administration is to blame. I have to say, it's the impression of a week that I haven't heard anything funnier in a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9700	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9701	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I like to read exact data, or to be exact. Forty to fifty thousand employees in the local administration are not all over Serbia. So I'm asking you to give the exact information next time. Otherwise, there's no shame in losing to the world's cooking champion, 47% got Koseric in the last election, I don't know if that's why you regret it. Just to remind you, when you mention some cities, in the town of Kruševec in 2012, we found 20 acres of city building land and a 7m-euro long city heat, and the debts and assets, if you want to sign up as republican property, just say the word. I don't understand, here in essence for the state in the amendments to this law there are no adverse consequences, absolutely no. Then I don't understand what tensions we're talking about here. Take it, give those 40,000 or 50,000 names you mentioned. You don't have to give me that much, give me 4,000 names, but let's check from 2008-2012 who the executives are, who the management chiefs were, how they were employed in the competitions, whether they were real competitions. You wrote legislation that when you lose power, no one can do anything to your staff. That was done just in 2011 when this law was passed. Now you're surprised the state is like this. It's not the impression of a week that the state is like this. It's about the impression of a decade, a decade of the impression of breaking up the state, the economy, the lack of public support that someone has the right to put some money in their pocket. Is the impression of the Decade of Agrobank? Is the impression of the decade "Vojvodine Development Bank", "Metals Bank"? That's all the impression of a decade.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9702	Thank you. The People's MP Velibor Stojkovic, on what basis? (Velibor Stojkovic, from the town: He mentioned Leskovac. You do not have the right to reply, only by amendment. He didn't mention your name. Speaking of Leskovac, you have no basis for replication. You can only speak for the amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9703	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, of course I'm reporting by amendment. The 2011 Law on Public Property then, as I recall, brought a heated debate between forces that advocated that the Republic belonged to as many public property as possible and those who first asked the AP Vojvodina to belong to it as much property as possible. At that time, my mood and the mood of most of the people in Vojvodina was to divide it fairly and that the question – whose public property is ours, would be resolved to the satisfaction of both sides. Those who then advocated that as much property as possible belonged to the AP Vojvodina also exercised power in the Republic of Serbia, so the issue of constitutionality of some amendments was asked. Anyway, this law was the subject of a dispute between several currents at the time of the ruling party and their coalition partners. Meanwhile, those who have advocated that as much public property as possible belong to the AP Vojvodina have changed their stance over the last three years and have come about with the loss of power. As they lost power in the elections, their mood toward public property has changed. As far as I can tell from these performances, the AP Duke no longer tends to be as much property as possible to enroll as possible. Their mood has therefore changed in a diametric fashion and now they appear in favour of the Republic or feel that losing power, losing ratings, and will certainly result in a complete loss of power in some future period, so the loss of power feels that our public property is not so important anymore and that they should leave those trenches and positions they had in 2011. Therefore, the complete change in the attitude of those who advocated as much authority as possible in that of the AP Vojvodina to enter as many properties as possible, then they had one amendment, and now quite the opposite amendments want to register as much property in favour of the Republic. I am not opposed to enlisting it, to become state property and to being users of local self-government, AP Vojvodina, but I am afraid that the same political forces will, over a few years, be a matter of public property if they register for the benefit of the Republic of Serbia, unless this law is passed, unless the deadline within which AP Vojvodina and local self-government should register their public property is extended, then a political question arises – what will these parties do in one, two, three or four years. Will this be an argument to point to some new centralization, to a new robbery of local self-government and a new robbery of the AP Vojvodina, to what did they point to in 2011 and what was the subject of the dispute between themselves? I simply don't understand what the amendment promoter wants anymore, and that's why I'm at the view that the amendment they submitted should be rejected, because if they adopted that amendment, then they would do something that was contrary to their ideas in 2011. So either they've changed, changed their attitudes or lost more property to the public in local self-government and AP Vojvodina's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9704	The word has been made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9705	We didn't get a clear answer as to why this is unacceptable. I'd like, Minister, for you to cut this, for moments, a painful debate, possibly, with a positive response to our appeal. I think it would be very helpful. So there wouldn't be this kind of interpretation of the extremely tense. Let me say, this is like a couch to you. You pulled this off to prove inconsistency with the opposition, and there's really no need. I think every citizen of Serbia, you used to say well-intentioned citizens who watch this know and see what we really want. We want to finally put an end to the continuous extension of the deadlines for enrollment at all levels of government, including public enterprises. It's a fight against the Javezluk, regardless, I underline, who is in power in which the municipality is, and you are in power in over 130 municipalities in Serbia. It doesn't matter. Why do you keep undermining it? We just want some order to finally be introduced. Start with this segment. If you had passed any other law, we would have talked about something else. Every unit of local self-government, public enterprise, an autonomous province has a chance. Make it a shorter deadline. Let them finish the job. There is no excuse, and that is why I think this would be a good idea to adopt and to really end this debate in a positive way, to tell ourselves first and to the citizens who chose us – we have introduced some order. And, not now, we stand up against the property of local self-government and AP Vojvodina. It's really, I don't know, very interesting. I don't want to offend anyone, really. Everyone must obey the law and the law must be implemented and no matter who is in power. This is the continuity of riding, the continuity of insolence, the continuity of incompetence. I say it completely open and what now? You tell me about what I can say about mine, under quotes, and you'll be big, and by then you'll be small regardless of percentages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9706	Mr. Stefanovic, please choose your words. You ask me – why? I can tell you a lot of reasons why what you said last isn't right for you to speak in this high house, but it's your manners. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9707	I thank the chairman. Madam Minister, it is true that the SPS parliamentary group has asked a legitimate question – which is why we should constantly extend deadlines for enrolling property rights to those who are legitimately legitimate and enroll and we have made very clear proposals and suggestions to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that within this new deadline we will support, because we have no problem supporting these amendments and amendments to the law, a very clear analysis has been carried out, which is why so far it has not been done and to indicate where the problem is, which is why local self-government, public enterprises and possibly AP Vojvodina did not do so. What is far more significant than that, the proposal to return everything to RS property would be a devastating proposal. Those who voted in favour of this law in 2011, including the SPS, had a clear motive, and that motive was to distinguish property rights, because the Law on Public Property unequivocally publicly indicates what forms of property, state, property of autonomous province, property of local self-government and public enterprises are in the spirit of the decentralisation that we all seek, while at the same time determining the responsibility of those who are registered with the right of property and state and local self-government and autonomous province and public enterprises, and of this concept there is no giving up. It's something that's not only motive, it's the necessity of passing this law from the point of view of normal functioning of the legal system and of state order. Not to mention how much we have succeeded in harmonising with EU legislation. So, in no case should citizens be fooled that the sanctions should now be by returning everything to RS property. In that case, we have then centralized everything and everything and the SPS will always be negatively determined against it. That is why we remain in the position that we have expressed as a parliamentary group in the debate in principle, and this is the last time that this deadline is extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9708	Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9709	We ask the amendment to change this extension of the deadline and not to be another two years, or five years, but to extend it by three months. If there is a government in this country and there are serious officials, their bosses and serious ministers, and if the government is doing some serious work for us, and not just broadcasting ignorance, hypocrisy and haughtiness, three months is enough for these past three years for this job to be over. There's no explanation of why in three years he couldn't finish the job no matter who was in any local self-government. There are no innocents. I would like to hear the answer from the minister – what are the reasons? I think it's time for the ministers who come here to defend the laws to defend themselves with silence and all the questions they get to keep quiet. What's the point of Parliament then? What's so clever about Nemanja, so arrogant, so superior that there's no need to explain anything here? Half of the MPs present in their exhibitions said they thought it was arrogant and rude that in three years he couldn't finish the job. That's what MPs of all parties say, everyone who can say that. And we from the government get silenced about it. Reason, this is really funny. It's funny for the Prime Minister to sign something like this – purpose and integrity is used in a political dictionary when you want to deceive someone, and the explanation for this member is also anti-constitutional. If you have not read, the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is more meaningful since it is unique to the Autonomous province and units, the province. To which constitution did those messengers swear just now? The constitution says that Serbia has provinces. It's either there or it's gone. He can't have them when the Talambasa is about the great heart, but they're not there when one serious law is written. This is against the constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9710	Mr. Zivkovic, let me ask you, are you using time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9711	I'm using. Some serious people came from some serious countries, sat up on this balcony for 15 minutes and escaped from here. Fortunately, they don't know Serbian, otherwise they'd leave right now. This debate, it's pure insolence, haughtiness, ignorance, hypocrisy from half the clerks to 90% of ministers in the current and former government. What's the problem with signing up for property when you know what's yours, when you assume what's yours? What's the problem with writing that down? Three years. Imagine everyone at home looking and not knowing what's his and not caring, or in their backyard. Well, come on, we'll see tomorrow. There's probably a large number of abuses stemming from this unsolved condition and probably that's the reason. It's not the administration from the clerks to the Prime Minister who's just being arrogant, hypocritical, and who has no idea, it's also corrupt. Surely, there is no telling whether there is something state, province or local and that there are great conditions for various manipulations. If this Assembly wants to do a serious job, if it does not want to pass another shameful law, then a three-month amendment should be adopted, quite enough by New Year's, and that the power of the organization, that desire for reforms, that desire for change, efficiency, that all resources be employed, and, if necessary, these foreign advisers. So let's get Guzenbauer to come and fix it. If he can't, Frattini can. If Frattini can't, let's find someone on the fifth, let someone teach us how to take care of our property. When a man, a natural person, a citizen doesn't know how to take care of his property, then he finds himself incompetent. That means he's not normal. I'm afraid with this behavior, we all here send a very bad message to the citizens of Serbia, that this is a place where businesses tend to work, a replica about the things that were as long as they were, what was their internship and I don't know what, without getting into the essence of the things that made this home exist. That is why, of course, parliament is at its lowest rating compared to all state institutions. This is one arena where we get a bone thrown out of Germany and then we look like people fighting over that bone. It has to be interrupted. This parliament must be restored to honour and honour and a place in Serbia's constitutional and legal order. The way we're doing it today, it sure as hell won't. I invite you, first you give me an answer, if you may, and you may, and you know, and second you will adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9712	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The government minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9713	I think it would be worth mentioning here that this law, and specifically in Article 90, does not apply until the international administration has ceased functioning, established in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 on the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, the editorial used in the reasoning is quite correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9714	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to this famous three-month period, or 31.12.2014, we can discuss and we are always ready to discuss deadlines, but we're not ready when someone sees a thorn in someone's eye, and they don't see a log in their own. That's a little problematic. Especially since we took a lot of credit from international organisations in the period up to 2012 to improve the state administration. We've spent our credits, and from the state administration, the only thing we've improved is so many employees that we don't know how many there are. We can't say exactly how many employees today, even though the previous finance minister and the current minister in charge of these jobs are trying to extract the exact number. Because phantom organs are formed that no one knows about, not even the Prime Minister, not the minister. It's inherited. It's hard to figure out who they are, across the vault, through business banks, to see who's getting the pay from. That came from those loans. When we talk about respecting the Constitution, I remember when a constitution is very harshly broken. It was called the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The excuse was then a coalition partner from DOS, one MP here from the DSS, who said – why should we respect the Constitution when it is not respected in Montenegro? So at that time you brought the Constitution, or the Charter of the State Community. We respect our constitution. In the territory of the AP, Kosovo and Metohija do not currently exercise power and is currently under UN protection, in accordance with Resolution 1244. So don't mention the government in that part. We accepted it as it is in 1999, and we can't change it ourselves for now, and we can't affect it. The problem is that, and that's said and said more than once, our state administration, our state-owned apparatus, is not effective. It's very hard to get it in order. Many, I say, are the organisational continents of the state administration torn apart. The continuity of organ work is broken, because people were brought from the street to work in the state administration, who knew nothing. Dad, it's something offensive for someone, and I say it when I say it, I say it with respect, because that dad works for the state, no matter who's in power. They were expelled after October 5th from this building and from the one down in King Milan. Their tables were thrown out in the hallway to work. They've been expelled from the office. They put them in elevators to be their offices. That's why we now have such a state administration. Are you saying it's not true? We can name names. It also happened on local self-government. Absolutely the same. I've always fought, like a man who comes from a bar, from a town, that when there's a change in government a father who does his job can't have hair off his head missing and I don't care what his political commitment is. Everyone who worked, at least while I was wondering, kept their jobs. The head of the Department of Economics, Finance and Social Affairs, then from G 17 2004, remained there until retirement. No one has changed it, but the problem is where they've been changed for politics. Who did that? Those who are now the most critical of this law. We accept our share of responsibility for being soft in heart so that we do not dispel workers from local self-government, who are employed on the political line. It's our responsibility, but it's a much greater responsibility for those who brought them. The solution to this problem was possible in two ways, either the one proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the other, that all those responsible for this be kicked off the job. But then don't ask us if they're politically similar or inappropriate, accept your part of responsibility for a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9716	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's people's letter appeared in the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9717	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In response to MP Zivkovic's reply, she gave only part of the answer, and the other part, which is actually the essence of the amendment that we expected to hear and which we haven't heard, since two days ago began the debate on this law, has left out – whether some kind of responsibility will be established for what this law has already been here for two and a half years. I cannot accept the arguments given by Mr. Arsic that, like everything else in the country, it is the guilt of someone else, some previous government, government before or before her, and that nothing that happens in this country is the responsibility of the SNS. He says the SNS is ready to accept part of the responsibility, however, but already in the second part of the sentence says that responsibility for allegedly not firing some others allegedly hired. In Novi Sad, Mrs. Udovici, the City Assembly has 78 council members. Of the 78 people proposed by the SNS for committees in the City of Novi Sad Assembly, 52 were employed in the newly-sad public enterprises or the city administration of Novi Sad. If this is the end of party employment, if this is the way we are going to professionalise and to "patimate" the state administration and services in local self-government, if you think that this is a way to break up with, behold, the disastrous practice that DS or any other party had because the SNS has come to save us from it, then say so and let Mr Arsic or anyone from the SNS say so. But if it's the essence of this argument, as well as any other argument we've heard in the past two and a half years, that it's all someone else's fault, then maybe it's better what Mr. Zivkovic resents, which is that you really don't give answers to the essential questions. Is there any intention of determining responsibility for what happened? Is there any way to break with this practice and why the amendment proposed by MPs Zivkovic and Pavicevic is unacceptable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9718	I thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word has a minister in the government, Dr. Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9719	To the question about this amendment that had been asked earlier, how that so many Javezluks had occurred, why these properties had not been entered, I answered this very clearly in the debate in principle. However, to this question of whether there is an intention to determine responsibility, I would like to answer, that is, how to call for the responsibility of local self-government and the provinceal authority by the Republic, I propose to any MP who is interested in sitting down and in initiating a legal solution in which in such a broad way can be called from a republican level on responsibility for fulfilling or failing to comply with legal obligations as we formulate them at a local level. It is an interesting and necessary project, and I think it is not easy to implement and it is one of the challenges that we have in the next period. The fact is that for the time being, when local self-government or the province are irresponsibly treating their citizens, in accordance with their competences, there is no easy way for the Republic to protect the interests of citizens, simply and directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9720	I thank Mrs. Widowsky. Mr. Zivkovic, on what grounds? (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: By amendment. You don't have any more time. If we apply the Rules of Procedure strictly, you have the right to speak on one amendment to five minutes and use time. (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: That's right. And as a proposer, I have two. I'll give you that opportunity, but let me just finish. So you have up to five minutes. There's no way that time can be shared and that later you're reporting for another amendment and you have to use those five minutes all of a sudden. I guess you didn't know that, and that's why I'm going to give you the opportunity to use those minutes and 30 seconds, but I'm asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure for the second time. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9721	It's not a problem in those two minutes, it's a bigger problem in three years where nobody does anything. The answer we have now received from the minister is disastrous. I will now teach you and reveal to you a secret, how the state can influence that citizens, local self-government, public enterprises and the province of Vojvodina apply what it says in law: by respect of the law. So it's the rule of law. I know it's a bit of an unusual institute in Serbia, but let's say, let's try some rule of law, and then the deadlines don't move because someone's holding it back. I don't care what party it's from. He needs to be fired right away. You've got twice as many people in the state administration, you can fire them all day, three months, and you won't fire them enough. By the end of 2003, there were 27 thousand in the administration, today there are 72,000. In the city of Nis in October 2000, there were 809, today there are 2,840. It's like it's growing up, like it's some kind of a nursery. Therefore, law enforcement. By law and by accepting our amendment, it comes to the conclusion that if no new year is completed, the property becomes state-owned. It's not permanent, the state can re-transmit it to some local self-government, public enterprise if necessary, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9722	Mr. Zivkovic, time's up, these minutes and 30. Thank you. The word is by MP Vuceta Toskovic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9723	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I must say immediately that this amendment, submitted by these independent MPs, depended on when they applied, is now independent because they are not comfortable with something else, because they have probably never done anything in public service and do not know what these problems are in public property, nor do many other MPs who say to shorten that time in public property. I'm just going to give you two examples in Novi Sad. The labor university burned down 15 years ago. There's no owner. Public property is nobody's. It stands as one symbol of ignorance, unreality and anything else. The second case is GSP. The bus station, an old bus stop, was in the hands of the GSP for three or four years, and was later owned by the town of Novi Sad, and then relocated to the GSP. These two examples tell you how much trouble there is in realising public property. Why? Because since 1945, you don't know who's what. We democratically brought in 2,000 Democrats, by force, by force, by rifles and bayonets. They've had 12 years to keep all this stuff that they've now proposed to the offices, and these young, independent MPs, they don't know about it, so we'll somehow let them get over it. So it's not that easy, in three months, to do a job that's important to the state. We can't accept such an amendment and it won't be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9724	Mr. Pavicevic, you've answered the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9725	With a strong opportunity, I came across two basics. By amendment and by injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9726	All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Becic, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Udovicski, a respected guest from the ministry, has just been injured by article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads in attitude 1. The speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I believe, Mr. Chairman, that you have violated the Rules of Procedure by not warning Mr. Toskovic that no MP here, from whatever party he comes from, is independent, independent, new parties, that he must not say that the MP is ignorant, which he just did, so Mr. Toskovic, a member and an MP of the SNS, told me. Dear Mr. Becic, let me read it to you. The Serbian dictionary, which applies to everyone here, says that he is an ignorant person who knows nothing. That one MP, it tells another national MP who protects the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia here, thus saying that the citizens of Serbia are ignorant, and you are not responding, Mr Becic, it is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Please, if you are not during his speech now, warn Mr Toskovic not to use such terms in the qualifications and address of other MPs, not just me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9728	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I'm sorry, but believe me, I didn't hear that spoken word. I'm sure I'd react if I heard it. A moment ago, I also asked your colleague, Mr. Zivkovic, not to use such terms and such words in the National Assembly. Looks like you've made some kind of rule about why I have to react now, or I've had to react. I apologize again for not hearing such a thing. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) I thank you. The word is Mr. Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9729	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 104. The rules of procedure have been broken. I think that in this National Assembly they heard a lot of serious insults, although I agree with you that I did not hear it, although I closely follow the Assembly, but they were heard by Mr Pavicevic's party and the insults and threats sent to the SNS's MPs – and I'm going to take you to the Bander, or I'm going to put you on the Bander, so he didn't mind. However, what can distract me in previous reactions and for that reason, and I think that the Rules of Procedure has been broken and that you should have warned Mr Pavicevic that if someone told him that he was ignorant, I don't think he was both professionally prepared and by the energy he shows in this room, I think he didn't, I'll say it again, but I will say it – well, that's directed to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When Mr Pavicevic found himself in the elections alone or in his own party, in these elections, to say: Serbian citizens sent him here. When we got the answer as to how those 6.09% were distributed, who had 0.9%? The Democratic Party or the New Foreigner or are they half? If they're half, then neither of them deserve to be in parliament, because the censorship is 5%. What citizens are you hiding behind? Why is that passed on to the citizens? Yes, we represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia all, and I don't think this place is for insults, it's not a place, and it bothered Mr. Pavicević a few days ago, which is why an anthem is intonated, which is why the guard is here, which is why the flags are here, and I think we would be far more serious if every day there were anthem and guard and flag, it would remind us of who we represent and what high home we are in, not that people like Mr. Pavicevic and his party did, that other political parties, that other people, those people who think differently, would send us to the gangsters or for the gangsters like that several times in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9730	Thank you, Mr. Babic. Now that I see that the trend here is to make a circus out of the National Assembly, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] I'd like the service from the information system to take out the cards of MPs who are not present in the O.R. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9732	Dear Mr. Becic, honourable MPs, I agree with Mr. Becic that it was okay to take a break earlier and you did so according to the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. But when the session continues, that does not mean that it is automatically moving on to the next amendment, because the debate under the previous amendment is not finished. I have signed up for the word that I am using five minutes of an independent MP around our amendment to Article 1. A bill that defends Mrs. Widowsky. You now have an obligation to give me your word, but I agree that you do not have the obligation to give a word to the MPs who report to the Rules of Procedure, who were concerned with previous discussions. We must conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 1. I signed up in the regular procedure, I prepared something that I believe Mrs. Widowsky should hear here and ask you to give me the right now in five minutes, once again try to convince Mrs. Widowsky to accept our amendment to Article 1. That would be respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9733	Mr. Pavicevic, I'm sure you're right and I should have given you my word while you were in the system. At the moment I continued the session, no one was in the system...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9734	I signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9735	Believe you weren't, because I'd give you my word. I've moved on to the next amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9736	Correct the mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9737	If you insist and if it's very important what you want to say on your amendment, I will allow you, but you appreciate that I have returned to the previous amendment, not to cause new replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable First Vice President of the Government, Mrs. Udovici, the Honorable guest, I think we will have a big problem in this assembly unless you accept our amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Public Property. Just to remind you, since we have lost track of this debate that we are discussing, we have therefore submitted an amendment to Article 1 amending Article 77 of the existing Public Property Act, which has been established within three years, since the date of the entry into force of the law in which the AP and units of local self-government apply for registration of public property rights. We felt that this deadline that you are now extending to five years, that it is too long and we have suggested that Article 1 be changed and that all of these actors, who have missed a three-year period of time, be made up of their obligation, be left with them for just three months to make up for it now. Look, we're thinking next -- somebody's spent three years somewhere for irresponsibility. Some people who do some public work here should work in the public interest. They didn't report anything that was supposed to apply for three years, and now the government instead of defining who is responsible for giving and firing someone responsible, the government is proposing to extend the deadline by another two years, and I think the government actually promotes irresponsibility. In the government's explanation, the honourable Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Becic, here's Minister Udovici is now out, she's probably uninterested in this debate, she's been defending herself with silence for a while, then she's answering one part of the question, now she's not here to answer any additional questions that we have here, and I think that when the minister's not around when we're discussing some bill she's in charge of defending, then it's a full picture of someone's irresponsibility, first of all, the minister, then the government in general. The Minister has sent us an explanation for refusing this amendment. It says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is more meaningful, Mrs Udovici is known for the term "elementity" "intestinality", "conformity", and then added – given that the AP and local self-government units need a longer deadline to collect data and documents. So what's the length of the term? Why then a respected guest from the ministry, since the minister is gone, then why doesn't she stop at the law to give a hundred years, that someone submits the application provided for by this bill for 200 years, so that no one has to worry about it. Look, if we're constantly in the law for three years, five years, ten years and we keep moving it, then one impression is created among those people who work that there's no special obligation to abide by deadlines, and that's what I think, and Mr. Zivkovic rightly emphasized here, we have to cultivate the rule of law and rule of law here, not violate the rule of law whenever we're able to do it. Furthermore, all I have to say about this amendment is that Mr. Arsic here, commenting on this amendment, said that the responsible persons, if this amendment is accepted, could be fired. Mr. Arsic, what else?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9739	Mr Pavicevic, do not speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9740	All right, I'm sorry. So, if a person doesn't fulfill his obligation, he does some public work, and we instead of sanctioning irresponsible action, we say, "You know what those people who are irresponsible might get fired, it wouldn't be right." Wait, gentlemen. The second thing Mr. Arsic says about this amendment to Mr. Becic – well, if it extends by five years, there are no harmful consequences for the state. Of course there is. If we have officers respected gentlemen who knowingly, deliberately do not adhere to the law of this country, so what is it? It is a pity for our country and for the public interest in this country. Therefore, I find Mrs. Widowsky respected, once again I tell you that there will be a big problem if you do not adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9741	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is according to the amendment, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9742	I'd like to use the replica, because he mentioned the name and last name twice and misread it, or interpreted what I said. So, two minutes. I never said that if this amendment was accepted someone should be fired, but I said that the amendment would be great to write in it that whoever disobeys these deadlines and gets fired and criminally responds, that's what I said. So I didn't ask him to give up one of the amendments, so someone wouldn't get fired. It's just a matter of work. The harmful consequences, I agree, may be due to an inefficient administration, but I was just talking about the problem. When we begin to share our resignations, colleagues from the former regime will rise up and start saying we are running a political hunt against their party members. That's what this is about. So that's the problem. But if you insist, here, I agree that it would be a great solution, but then don't get up and say it – you're politically dealing with someone, you're doing your job as a state, and we're giving you credit, and we're wrong to hire such bad and incompetent people. There's another problem, what about their families, what about their children? It was easy when 400,000 people were out of work here until 2012. Still, you have to think about it, make them do their job, so whoever doesn't get fired.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9743	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has Professor Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic mentioned his last name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, Mrs. Udovici, a respected guest from the ministry, I ask you, Mr. Becic, to convey to Mr. Arsic that the principle of rule of law is one of the fundamental principles set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If the principle of rule of law exists in the Constitution of our country, that, Mr. Becic, I ask you to pass it on to Mr. Arsic, means that when the National Assembly adopts some law, then the content of this law is binding for all citizens in this country. There is no need for each member, each draft law to be stuck and one supplement, that all those persons to whom the law applies, undertake to accept that they may be fired unless they comply with the contents of the law. Please, gentlemen, this kind of approach, respected and Mr. Becic, just confirms what I was talking about, is the approach to promoting the irresponsibility and government of an individual, one man, instead of the rule of law. Therefore, I ask, dear Mr. Becic, Mr. Arsic to prove today and in the day of voting that the advocate of the principle of rule of law in our country is going to vote for the adoption of our amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Property, which requires, among other things, the determination of responsibilities for labour and, of course, respect for the principle of rule of law as basic in our constitutional system. Thank you, dear Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9745	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Arsic, after you generously provided him with a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9746	I stand for the rule of law. What's the date today? It's October 3rd. When's the deadline? It expires 6. October. Will the law be changed before 6 October? They will, and with your amendment and without it, be accepted your amendment or not. Is that right? Well, it is, just like that. So that's the point. We just talked a few times about the rule of law. The most important document in one country is the Constitution. I mentioned how the Constitution of the federal state was violated. No one's blushed. No one was blushed when we introduced the State Charter in an unconstitutional manner. All the consequences have arisen ever since. Once you break the law, as long as you or someone who was in power with you while you were breaking the law, you can't bring things back to normal. We're just trying to get things back to normal legal course. There's another problem. It's not a big deal if the law doesn't pass. It will become the property of the Republic of Serbia. What's the problem? What we're going to burden after the state administration with local problems. Sorry, one more thing, I'm sorry in one part that whoever is responsible for the seven million-long heat plant in Krusevec now wants to give its amendments to the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9747	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9748	Thank you. My discussion is now naturally related to this debate on the rule of law and the rule of law, and this amendment is somewhere logical as a consequence of the previously submitted amendment that we have proposed to delete this extension of the deadline, but when we like to call on the rule of law and the rule of law, then we should also read what is proposed by these amendments to the law, which is that they take effect the next day of publication, which is certainly not in accordance with the Constitution, which very often in the absence of other evidence we like to call on. So, I will repeat what I said and in the debate in principle and explaining the previous amendment. I regret that we are finishing the debate on amendments to the Law on Public Property, and yet we have not heard enough clear explanations about what the causes of non-compliance with previously prescribed deadlines are, whether it is intricacies, whether they are complex and complicated procedures, because without it extending the deadline by just two years does not mean anything. We can extend it to ten years, but it doesn't mean we're going to put public property in the way this law is prescribed. By pretending there's no problem, we won't solve it. That is why I expected today and the day before, when we talked in principle, as serious people to talk about what are the causes of both local self-government and public enterprises and the province, but we must not abandon the Republic Property Directorate, that they apply this public property law in every way and within the prescribed deadlines. Since we haven't heard those arguments, I wouldn't really have anything further to explain about the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9749	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the Serbian Progressive Party MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9750	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and I advocate respect for the rule of law, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is written in the draft law that the Law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication. This is not unconstitutional because the National Assembly can make a decision to shorten the period of entry into force. It's in accordance with the Constitution if that's what we decide. A fellow MP or MP, however, wrote to delete Article 2. If it had been in accordance with the Constitution and called to the Constitution, it would have been written - this law shall enter into force eight days from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger". That's how it's written in accordance with the Constitution. I am very surprised by the great concern of the MPs of the former regime for public property and public property. They've had 12 years with her. How did they get her back? In charge, over-indebted. Do you want to talk about JAT? Here, I'd like to talk about JAT. What kind of JAT did we find? Seven planes three of which can't even fly. We gave credit, we gave guarantees for getting new planes. Where'd that go? Now someone's talking about taking care of public property? Do you want to talk about public debt? How did he grow up? How much is he going on interest payments now? Do we want to talk about state property or social property? Under the Constitution since 2007, they have been completely even. Shall we talk about this privatisation? What, it's nobody's? What's social, which is a state I don't care about, so can anyone do what they want? We are now awaiting the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, just to see which are now going to defend the two directors who have a basis for doubting that they were charging a racket from businessmen. That's the kind of country we inherited from you. Look at that one time. Accept that fact. If you want to help, tell us who these are your incompetents that you know are incompetent, that they're corrupt, that you suspect are thieves. If you didn't have the strength to deal with them, we would, not just incompetent, incompetent, incompetent. Well, who hired them? They didn't come from Mars, did they? Well, the previous regime hired them. What are you complaining about now? Probably because he can't keep hiring like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9751	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is Mrs. Vesna Martinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9752	So, the Constitution prescribes only exceptional reasons for entry into force before the eighth day of publication, but I don't want to go any further on that, and I don't want to talk about JAT or public debt, because I'm afraid the subject of public debt today would be too painful for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9753	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Sabina Dazdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9754	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reasons for submitting this amendment are similar to that of our previous amendment. Here we have the same problems with public enterprises, which is that a small percentage of public enterprises reported their assets, i.e. that the application of their assets is not yet completed, that other problem, which is the organisational structure of catastrian services that is not good, which is again here, as well as local self-government that, when they write down their assets, have a problem with catastrian services that will not carry out that conversion. So here we have the same problem with public enterprises. In the end, I would just like to add that my last name is not Dizdarevic, but Dazdarevic. Please refer to me as Dazdarevic in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9755	Thank you. There seemed to be a technical error in the amendment, so I read it like that. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9756	Thank you, Your Honor. Tell me, please, how many MPs have more time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9757	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9758	Thank you. This amendment to the amendment of the Property Act refers to the deadlines that public enterprises had, which are public, which are social enterprises, whose capital is in state property, which had the deadline for these three years to enroll property on immovable property and now extends to them to five years. So, they're given another two years to do a job that they haven't done, I'd say due to irresponsibility, non-business, non-professionalism over the past three years. Anyone who tries to justify responsible persons in these public enterprises or social enterprises, I find it in some way insulting Serbian citizens, no matter who these persons are, whether they belonged to some previous authorities or belong to the current authorities. We're talking about current time. Our proposal was to give them a deadline of another year to do a job they hadn't done in the last three years. What are we doing this for? Because we want to try to restore legal certainty in this country. In any case, it doesn't take someone to graduate from law school to know that if someone to whom the law applies, an individual legal standard counts that every time he doesn't fulfil his obligation that is time-limited, he gets a new deadline without any sanctions, so why would he enforce that legal standard? No legal consequences, no responsibilities, no social or political or material responsibility, not to speak of criminal or criminal. Why would someone pay taxes if they knew that they'd be forgiven or paid taxes on wars, and then again, the tax would be forgiven? Why would someone count on him not to commit crimes, if his criminal sanctions were to be reduced, or amnesty done? Why would someone commit to the law if they knew they wouldn't suffer any sanctions? Why would a water director register water installations, pipes, lengths, and hundreds of kilometers in some cities as his property, if he knew that he would not suffer any sanctions, nor would he be replaced, nor would he be punished, nor would anyone mention his name? Why would anyone sign up for cemeteries, hot water and other installations, buildings, buildings, if they won't suffer any sanctions? Why is that? Because executive and legislative authority does not perform their duties. I'm not even sure the executive board knows what ministry is responsible for this. This, as we have determined, is under the Ministry of Justice Act. So property is the exclusive law of the Justice Department. This is where the representatives of the Ministry of Finance showed up. Yes, in some segments, the Ministry of Finance is competent, but neither ministry has done enough to apply these laws and that when finance ministers change like on tape. Ask a Serbian citizen how many know who the finance minister is now. How would you know? I often go to the market and to the grocery and to the bakery. Believe me, I know every digger and what he does in a bakery, I know their names, I know their faces. Why? Because those people when they chose to work there were looking for some people who could survive, who could work, sell bureks, sell apples, pears, etc. Here you have ministers who change every few months. It's easier for me to remember who's out there in the grocery than the minister. How will these ministers enforce the law when they can't even get to know the building they're in, let alone get to know the problems they're facing? That's how our ministers change. That's how our country's legal system works. It is a matter of legal certainty, and it is a matter of fact that if you support an amendment to this law and give it the right of the Serbian government to behave in this way in the coming period, when the law expires, even after the end, as in this case, it proposes an extension of the period by two years and nothing to anyone. That's not what the exposé said and what Mr. Wolf read. That's not what you swore, in efficiency, in security, in the legal equality of citizens. What about the ones who signed up? They're the same as the ones they didn't sign up for, nothing to anyone. We therefore suggested that this deadline be extended for another year, that they be given a chance, but not to extend indefinitely, as someone said – 50, 100 years. If this continues, this law will not be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9759	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9760	I'll speak in the amendment, although I might also report for damage to the Rules of Procedure, because I don't see what the resemblance between enrollment of public property rights and barrels is. More has been said about the barrel, about the diggers, about the honorable occupations, about the places that all MPs are sure to visit, the authorities, the opposition, it doesn't matter, but these are places that are public places and where they work honest and honest people in Serbia, but I don't see any connection, because neither the diggers, nor the people who make and sell the barrels in Serbia are recording and not applying for registration in public property. There are a lot of things said that have nothing to do with the amendment, or the law. You will suffer, and you will equate what I will have to give my opinion on and on, and I will also tell you about the amendment and the law, of course. No country's citizens have to know the name and last name of the minister. They're not ministers of estrace stars, they're not members of the 1991-1992 Red Star Championship team, so for the record. What matters is what they do, the reform measures they implement. You know, in one period of the former regime until 2012, unfortunately, we all knew about this finance minister, because he was also the Prime Minister, and he served more to cook coffee in the government, because he made other decisions. We knew the name and last name of the Prime Minister until 2012 and the finance minister, who you can imagine, will never forget that sentence, which he said – Serbia has statistically come out of the crisis, but its citizens will not feel it. We knew the name and last name of this man, unfortunately, who led the government of the Republic of Serbia until 2012 for which Serbia statistically emerged from the crisis, but the citizens of Serbia will not feel it. We don't need such ministers. We don't need ministers who don't take citizens out of the crisis, but they do statistics from the crisis. The Law on Public Property, I'd like to define two things and repeat a proposal that I said a few days ago. Is there damage and what is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Public property, which is the inertness of representatives of local self-government, municipalities and cities and AP Vojvodina, by the inertness of Bojan Pajtic, and I believe that the words addressed earlier are probably addressed also to Bojan Pajtic, is well, needs criticism, no right is entered, no application for registration of public property within the time limit prescribed by the law, which was passed by the assembly majority. Now the same assembly majority gives the AP Vojvodina and the inert, incompetent, irresponsible Bojan Pajtic, who did not do the same, but also other representatives of local self-government and public enterprises. That's what I'm talking about. There are no innocents in this business, there are no innocents politically, because at the restaurant all the parliamentary groups sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have their representatives in these public enterprises that have not entered the right of public property, in these local self-governments and in this AP Vojvodina, Mr Bojan Pajtic, who has not done the same, who is also incompetent and inert and has no personnel. Is there any damage? It's not. That property didn't burn. That property didn't go down the Danube, down Morava. This property is state property. We believe that with this property much better and much more attention will be given to units of local self-government, public enterprises, who otherwise own this property. That's why it's necessary to write down property rights, but there's no harm done. What responsibility can the government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent ministry, be? Whether the minister, and the former ministers sitting here in this hall, can go from local self-government to local self-government or from public enterprise to public enterprises, or we here from the National Assembly will go to Mr. Bojan Pajtic and tell him – let's do your job instead of just thinking about most of it, whether you have it or not, and when you have lost your legitimacy, let's write down some public property and property owned by the AP Vojvodina. He's thinking about other things. The obstacles are other things. It is good that this criticism is directed to both the AP Vojvodina and those who have led it for the past 12 years. I think it's a much more creative approach and I think that the point of merger should be control over this period, which this law today will be given to representatives of local self-government and public enterprises, so that we don't lose that time period in vain. I wouldn't agree if there wasn't a responsibility. Because, primarily, as a citizen of a small local self-government, I don't know if the representatives of local self-government have applied for public property registration on Monday. As a citizen, I'll say, Mr. President of the municipality, did you do it, because you're the president of the municipality now, maybe you'll be in the next period, maybe someone else will come, but I'll stay here as a citizen. That responsibility is measured in the elections. There will be a choice, so people in that local self-government will ask – Mr. President, Mr. Director, did you do it? No, I won't vote for you, don't do your job. It's a responsibility. If you think that the assembly majority, that the minister, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will go from local self-government to local self-government, will twist hands and say – come on, do your job, come on, Bojan Pajtic, do his job, come on, file a request for public property registration, no, but the citizens are the only ones we care about and are the only ones who care about. A much more creative approach and a hand provided by SNS and Mrs. Udovicki, but according to other MP groups, it was like that – let us not pass this time, let us make one table, let us put that table on the Internet, let us make it as one public call, that there are local self-government and public enterprises in that table that did not do so now. Let those who won't do it in three months be ashamed, then six months. Let their citizens ask them, what are you doing? The state doesn't have a mechanism. I know it will be nice to attack the government and I know that someone will say – the opposition is right, it's her job to attack. It's no problem, but tell me what are the mechanisms that the government can come to local self-government and sanction anyone for why they didn't do or did. That's what elections do. What I want is for this time given to Bojan Pajtic, AP Vojvodina, and other units of local self-government, not to think about most, not only to think about how they will survive in power, not only to think about chairs, cars, secretaries and mobile phones, not only to think about the size of their cabinets, not to think about salaries, but to think about the interest of units of local self-government. Let's make a website. Let some sublegal act get rid of something like that. Let it be public, to be transparent, that as Mr. Zoran Stojiljkovic, a friend of mine, a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences says – light is the best disinfectant in the fight against corruption. Let's turn on all possible lights, so that we don't let this flow of time, given by this law to Bojan Pajtic, AP Vojvodina, but also to other units of local self-government, not to waste time, not to argue in this or another congregational majority in the same way. It's the only way. Otherwise, whether it's going to be four years, whether it's going to be three years and three months, whether it's going to be six years, whatever, if eyes close to this challenge today, not ten years, not three months, or not knowing how many months will be enough. It won't be enough, but it won't be enough for Bojan Pitiæ either. It won't be enough for the AP Vojvodina either. They weren't doing their job either. Don't close your eyes. Don't look at this challenge on the one hand, politically. No one has done a good job of enrolling public property, but the government has no mechanism to force units of local self-government to do so. Citizens have no damage, except that it is a kind of decentralisation to register the property of public enterprises, local self-government. Different citizens will feel. It's going to run differently towards that property. We can't close our eyes today when we pass this law. I don't want to close my eyes. Attention to that. If the attention of the amendment is three months, six years, four years or just to get two minutes to criticise the government and say – the government is responsible that Bojan Pajtic did not apply for public property registration, what is this about? Then who abuses the congregation? Who abuses congregation time? I don't think this approach is more quality, it couldn't get into this proposal to amend and supplement the law, I believe it can by a certain sublegal act, and I believe that this way the government will build a wall of local self-government of public enterprises that haven't done it or who are doing it or who are going to do it in the next three years. In any case, I think the point is that these three years we don't lose, but in this way we force the local self-government and Bojan Pajtic to do their job without only thinking about the majority, cabinets and retaining power.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9761	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. You've got another minute and 20 seconds. You have no chance of replicating. You can only do this time you have left. [[Janko Veselinović, from the place: I wanted a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9762	When I mentioned the workers and the workers in the bakeries, then I thought exactly what they were doing. So, they're doing their job safely and Mr. Babic should know that when he comes to the bakery to buy a burek, he won't tell him -- come in two hours, it'll be a burek in two hours, but he'll give him a barrel right away, and the ministers don't say that. Ministers say -- you have three years to register the immovableity, the deadline comes, it says -- here's another two years. I told Mr. Babic, he wasn't in the O.R. at the time, he mentioned Mr. Pitiæ more than once, and no Istvan Pastor. They are in a coalition in the province, and Mr. Pastor is in the coalition with you here in the Republic Parliament, so try to sit down with Mr. Pastor, one and the other and ask them to try to enroll those immovableities. It would be very good, someone mentioned local self-government where you're in power, to see if your directors did those jobs, if they'd put in real estates, and you mentioned twice the words I liked -- the points of merger and hand-to-hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9763	Mr. Veselinovic, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9764	Just one sentence, please. So that's where we can agree. We said -- here's another year, here's the possibility for those directors of local self-government to type in those immovableities. That's enough. You put pressure on them, and I think a year is enough for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9765	Thank you. The People's MP Zoran Babic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9766	I'm not a lawyer, Mr. Chairman, but I don't need to be some extraordinary lawyer, and even less a doctor of legal science to know that there's a big difference between the executive and the legislative authority. A huge difference in powers between the executive and the legislative authority. If on the one hand you have the hand and the point of merger, how are we going to get Bojan Pajtic and the directors and the presidents of the municipality from my party, I am not closing my eyes, to force those years or three years to do our job? On the other hand, you have the insertion of certain political matters, criticizing Mr. Pastor, who is the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. With what authority does he give, with what authority to apply for the admission of public property to the AP Vojvodina? With what authority should the president of the National Assembly do the work of the executive authority? What's done is, that defense is a unmistakable defense that's not based either in the Constitution or in the law, it's politics, I don't want to do it. I just want all units of local self-government to write down the right of public property, that all public enterprises do so, that Bojan Pajtic begins to do his job instead of thinking about most of his party, and he cares more about most of the AP Vojvodina, to start making demands, to start charging the salary he has. I just want everyone to do their job, and mostly because the AP is bigger than all units of local self-government and all public enterprises. At the most Bojan Pajtic, because I think all these words addressed by the opposition, opposition MPs, are the most addressed to Bojan Pajtic, and incompetence, and incompetence, and irresponsibility, and unresponsibility, and all that caused the AP to be one of those units of local self-government that did not apply for public property registration.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9767	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is made by Master Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9768	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, given that we have very short time, I will not do much in the introduction. I want to give you special support in my address, and I want to give you the importance of your work and your role in all these processes. When I hear representatives of the ruling coalition, or Mr Babic, Mr Antic, and when we hear their comments and their accusations brought here, it is only then that I fully understand what a difficult role you are in and how difficult it will be for you to open this process. If Mr Antic, today asks all of us what is the date and doesn't know that today is October 3, 2014, then we can rightly claim that he doesn't even know that for the past two years since this regime is in power and that he doesn't know what responsibility and role they took on, first of all after May's elections in 2012, when Serbian citizens have introduced terms of composing and transmuting into political life. If SNS gentlemen are constantly trying to impose this concept and the impression that they are employees of public enterprises and local administrations, that the unemployed, that they are party employees, that they should therefore respond because they are in such places, etc. Then a fake picture of the operation of local administrations is imposed, and then you have a problem. It would be good to open the topic with these people, which is why more than 100 municipalities and mayors who won the elections were replaced after May's 2012 elections. Madam Minister, I have been in the role of Mayor Užica since 2008-2012 and we have made the first spatial plan and general plan in Serbia, entry into the immovableity cadastre. We entered the property, but because of the transfer procedure, people came in who were simply found and didn't know what it was about. They took responsibility for managing the administration of those people who did not know how to finish the job and that is not the only example in Serbia. You have dozens of cases like this. Instead of today's head of the SNS parliamentary group talking about the responsibility of these people, the stopped processes, the burden of responsibility is again being passed on to some people who are not responsible and guilty, such as employees in local administrations. I'm saying there's no problem. It is just a matter of continuity, a matter of policy change, a matter of expertise and a matter of work. We heard here in an exhibition that lasted 10 minutes 15 times mentioning the name Bojan Pajtic, but it is not possible to hear the names of those people who stopped these processes in the original sense where they were supposed to start both energy and strength and the expertise of people, and these are local administrations and public enterprises and all those who haven't worked for these two years nothing on this job. The second issue raised here from Mr Babic's exposure is exactly how local administrations that haven't completed their jobs in the past two or three years, as expected, are well equipped with property. That is why it was precisely the purpose of this amendment to impose a question of responsibility for previous work, in fact, on the issue of further proceedings. So if the local administrations haven't set up this job within three years, the question is, how does Mr Babic think they're leading this process further, and essentially he's mixing values, and he says it's the same whether this job ends in three months or 10 years. If the goal of both these governments and these coalitions is to hire people, then it is fully expected to be asked by local administrations to get this job done as soon as possible. If local administrations don't have listed assets today, the question is -- how do you think you show up for new investments, for new jobs, how can you offer something to investors? Here, Madam Minister, I really expect that your role may be crucial, that by your performance you try to direct this debate and point to those problems that have really led to an irresponsible behavior at all levels in the past two years this job has not been brought to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9769	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9770	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the honourable MPs, when we proposed this amendment and suggested that the deadline for the entry of the immovableity be extended for another year, we were extremely responsible, because the extension of the two-year period carries with it one danger that we had in mind. In about a year and a half later, local elections will be held, and what director of a public enterprise, the president of a municipality or mayor, will insist that this work be done within that time when he knows that the elections are coming and that a trail of his responsibility will be lost? That's what we're talking about, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, and that's why we're asking in you allies to support this amendment. I know very well, Mr. Babico, I know the difference between the legislative and executive authorities, very well. I'm not sure you do, because unfortunately you're mixing some things, or you don't know that it's the power of the legislative authority to exercise control over the application of the laws passed, and that's what this Parliament doesn't do. If this Parliament had done so, you could, through the competent committees, determine that this law does not apply to an adequate extent. That's what you or you don't know or try to deceive the public in some way. So, the legislative authority has full responsibility over law enforcement, law enforcement, as well as the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, chaired by Mr. Pastor, has the responsibility to control what the public enterprises in the AP Vojvodina have done, along the way some public enterprises lead exactly the personnel of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians and try Mr. Babic, gentlemen of the SNS, to sit down with your coalition partners to try to solve this issue in the next year, not to deal with politics, because we will be in a position to change this law again in two years by extending the deadline. It's not a matter of government, every government is looking to cover up its own responsibility. This government is most responsible because the law was not applied, because it could ask the question of law enforcement, the application of the law to local self-government, so if it was not implemented, it could propose before amending the law, which would be sanctioned by those directors of public enterprises that did not carry out the list of property they owned. The government could have done that. She could have done that with these changes. If she extended the deadline, she could have provided for sanctions in these provisions, what would happen if they failed to comply with their obligations. It's a lack of the basics of this law, and you gentlemen have no answer to that. You have no answer, if you give a new term to an irresponsible person that deadline will be spent for no real purpose. If you give the sanctions, then you may have achieved some purpose, but not for two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9771	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9772	I'll just say one thing. Mr. Veselinović, you've fallen. You fell because, in which way the government of the Republic of Serbia can replace the director of a public enterprise it has not chosen, it has chosen a unit of local self-government. Number one, why did you fall to Dr. Veseninovic. Number two, why Dr Veseinovic is on fire, is that the assembly of the AP Vojvodina is responsible for why it did not follow the law that was passed by the Republic Assembly and did not implement Bojan Pajtic. Another question you've fallen for. There's a lot of them, mixing grandmothers and frogs. I understand that in these rhetorical things and outwittings sometimes it gets won, sometimes it gets lost, but don't bury the profession you represent. There's a big difference between the approach of the former regime you belong to, that it's enough that someone who was the director of a public enterprise, or he was the president of the municipality, so he didn't do his job well, so he went to another function and he forgot everything. No, it's not forgotten. Someone who is irresponsiblely doing his job, and you are quite surprised when the SNS introduced a system of responsibilities of passing times because we wanted constant and constant attention to people who represent the citizens of Serbia, who represent their interests, whether in the Assembly, in the government, in public enterprises, anywhere. If someone's not doing well, they have to leave early, in three months, in six months, not wait for the end of the term. I also know that Mr Pajtic is waiting for the end of his term so that everything can be forgotten about the Vojvodina Development Bank. Maybe he's waiting for the end of his term to forget all about the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. It can't be forgotten. Who wronged the law, who is responsible for ruining public property? It can't be stopped. Sir, speaker John, colleague from Uzic, I'd like to ask you to listen with a little more attention to your colleagues. He didn't say Mr. Antic. Mr. Antic is sitting in a second block. From Jagodina is a fellow MP. Mr. Arsic spoke, but as soon as you didn't remember his last name, the vice president of the National Assembly, someone who's been here for 10, 12 years, I'm sure you didn't even want to understand him in a good way about all the rhetorical questions he's asked, including the rhetorical question -- what's the date today? It was enough to look at the wristwatch, so they'll see what the date is today. He didn't have to ask the National Assembly unless it was a rhetorical question, and it was a rhetorical question. What I am asking and asking until the end of this debate is the question – how can we not miss this time we gave Bojan Pajtic, AP Vojvodina and other units of local self-government, and there is, of course, the responsibility of SNS representatives who are in these units of local self-government? That's what I'm going to say with a very correct and pure heart and a pure cheek. How come they don't miss and they don't waste this time given to them by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as an opportunity to do their job? The RS government can't shake hands with anyone. She can't replace the ones she didn't name. That's what citizens will do in the election, and it's up to us to make a mechanism for it not to happen, it's been that year, three or five years. What makes you think it's been a year? What makes you think that if you go into the election year that the directors of public enterprises or the president of municipalities will go from the stands to the stands or, as we just did before, to the tribune of colleagues from Užica – what has been done in Užica? Let's talk about what was done in Uzica and at the time of Christmas holidays, when some colleagues had such a good taste of the goddess pig and didn't care that the citizens of Užica had no water at the time. But that's why the members of the Serbian Army, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, worked to get the citizens of Uzica drinking water. This isn't the place for the stands. This is how we are going to send a strong and strong message to Bojan Pajtic and AP Vojvodina and other units of local self-government to start doing their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9773	Thank you, Mr. Granny. To allow MPs today to discuss the subject on the agenda, the amendment to Article 2 submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and other MPs, I am giving a three-minute break. [[after breaks]] Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9775	Of course, this amendment is in accordance with the law and the Constitution and of course it is meaningful and of course offers a solution to this problem. As a result of the public, this first amendment referred to the property, i.e. to the publication of the property of local self-government and the province of Vojvodina, which refers to public enterprises. We've heard a lot of things. In this debate, we even heard that when the law is not implemented, there is no harm. Then it is a question—and why is the law passed if its prejudiciality does not cause harm? It was also a question of how to punish someone who hasn't done their job in three years? Then the minister also wondered how the government would punish those who were unsupervised? I'll tell you how. You have public enterprises here, and that applies to public enterprises whose founder is Serbia, if anyone is listening to this. The public enterprises, the founder of Serbia's state, have their own directors. This means that the Serbian government can replace them if they haven't done their job, and their job for the past three years has been to write down their assets. I haven't heard of any changes, or at least that he's been removed for this reason. Is the "Serbian" property in full or not? Let's bet he didn't. He's supposed to be relieved of his duties, too, for Obrenovac's sake, but let's be a reason he didn't do his job on the property. Is the EPS's assets registered? As far as I can tell, that director got his term back. For two-and-a-half years, he's been acting as acting director and now he's become a formal director, probably because he's done something big for the EPS, but the property certainly isn't registered.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9776	Time, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9777	Therefore, there is a way to punish those who are embarrassing the Serbian government, and thus also the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9778	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Pores procedure and the Tax Administration You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Vesna Martinović, Borislav Stefanović, Zoran Živković, Vladimir Pavićevic, Marko Djurisić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Prof. Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9779	Thank you. My esteemed and respected colleague Babic said we should turn on all the lights in the fight against corruption and I fully agree with him, but I'm afraid we won't be able to do that, since we're not even able to provide the citizens with electronic tax returns. We're back on the deadline. The extension of the arm is due to something. Of what? We don't know. We are looking for an extension of the deadline without establishing the reasons why previously prescribed deadlines are not respected and without guarantees that these deadlines will now be respected. What is different from the Law on Public Property is that, technically, there were some assumptions here that could have been further developed, to lead to the end of 2014 and end of 2014 respectively, with the possibility of submission of electronic tax returns. In principle, he noted, shyly, as he was concerned, at the time he was the director of the Post of Serbia, in 2009 on February 6th, the first protocol on co-operation he predicted and where "Post" was the first taxpayer to submit an electronic tax application. Now I wonder – if something could be done in 2009, why is it impossible to do it in 2014? Wasn't it enough for five years to make assumptions in a technical sense to file electronic tax returns? This is particularly important because today we are in a very difficult financial situation, which is whether or not the government has recognised it, not full of the expected dynamics, and therefore it is important to facilitate all taxpayers, encourage them to submit tax returns and pay taxes. By extending your deadlines, you certainly don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9780	Thank you. The amendment to Article 1 was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Mrs. Udovicki, therefore, in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, Article 38 paragraph 7 is amended. Our proposal is to amend points 1, 4 and 5 within this position of Article 38, which is changed by a proposal that defends Mrs. Udovicki. We therefore believe that the tax on the profit of legal persons, other than the tax on the profit of legal persons, should take effect as early as 1 January 2015, instead of 1 April 2015, as proposed. As regards excise duties, also since 1 January 2015, instead of 2016 and the income tax on self-employed activities for business book-keeping entrepreneurs, we also consider that from 1 January 2015 instead of 1 January 2016. The government has not accepted our amendment, I think for no reason and has written that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution extends the deadlines for exclusively delivering tax returns in electronic form in such a way as to optimise the costs of setting up an adequate information system for participants in the tax-law process. Look, we have submitted our amendment with the same explanation, to say that our proposal to be optimised will be fully satisfied. So, two questions for Mrs. Widowsky now. First, why hasn't this amendment really been adopted, Mrs. Widowsky? Please, still answer these questions. Secondly, if you can't answer these questions concerning the bill, can you tell us why Mr. Vukic banned the broadcast "The Imprint of the Week"?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9782	The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9783	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like my fellow MPs to have a little discussion, see if they're already filing an electronic tax application? Here, the additional value tax is submitted in electronic form, tax returns. Taxes on profit payments shall be submitted in electronic form. The final account of legal and natural persons shall be submitted in electronic form. Who has the biggest problem with filing tax returns in electronic form? It's not the IRS, it's the IRS. The tax debtor should provide funds, i.e. to be technically equipped to be able to submit a tax application in electronic form. If you read carefully the next position of this same member, you will see that the obligation to submit tax returns in electronic form from these deadlines provided for by the amendments and amendments to the law, but no one has yet been prevented and disabled from submitting that tax application in electronic form. The obligation comes from these deadlines. Check out a little, already many legal and physical persons submit their tax returns in electronic form. It is not clear why this much desire to have something that is already quite certain so much of an attack, and it is true that we have had problems in the functioning and tax administrations, it is true that we have changed several directors, and it is true that now certain procedures are being conducted on grounds that the directors of individual tax administrations, i.e. branches or regional centres, have taken a racket from taxpayers to reduce their tax bases. It seems to me that it is "The Slave Houses of Belgrade", which were sold from bankruptcy in 2006 or 2007. Tax liability was made in 2008. Who brought these directors of tax administrations and regional centres? Then why are you surprised that the state is in such a mess? We can't figure out for all these years what kind of people you've been dragging into the state administration and what kind of trouble the state has to deal with with such bad people, party personnel who were hired by 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9784	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9785	So, all I have to do is quote a few introductory sentences. The Law on Public Property, as well as the Law on the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration, was proposed to the first amendment to delete the first member and the second amendment to delete the second member who has been prescribed entry into force. So these two amendments are one logically connected continent where one without another simply doesn't go. The Law on Public Property did not establish any disagreement with the Constitution and the law, unlike this other law where it was established, although, as I say, the amendments are fully identical and logically linked to the amendment proposing to delete the proposed extension of the deadline. I therefore also call on the Members of Parliament to respect this amendment, except for the reasons given by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, which is not only not logical but is not in line with the previous decision on the Law on Public Property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9786	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9787	Thank you, Chairman, no matter how much we cannot participate in this debate, because as soon as someone from the opposition comes in to say something, you interrupt the session and it's a new manners. But, okay. When it comes to this amendment, it concerns the entry into force of this law. It is intended to enter into force on the next day of its adoption. We have suggested that he enter into force on the eighth day of the day of adoption. Why? Because we wanted to provide as much legal certainty as possible. Why? Because these laws have all arrived by emergency procedure and that everyone enters practically the next day of the adoption, and in what way do we provide legal certainty whether they are in any parliament or in parallel? So, the law comes by emergency procedure, votes on the day of the debate, and the next day this law will come into force. That is why we, the chairman, Deputy Prime Minister, have proposed that this law enter into force on the eighth day of its publication. Since you did not give me the right to reply to Mr. Babic's presentation, who said that I "failed some exam" I just wanted to say that Mr. Babic couldn't even fail the exam because he didn't even come out... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9788	Time's up for the amendment. You're using the time of an authorised representative? Here you go. Please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9789	Please, how much time do I have? In fact, it's about the legal certainty of those who need to apply this law. Some MPs, I mentioned their name, said I didn't pass, when I was talking about the fact that citizens have to feel legal certainty and say, they couldn't even fall, because they didn't even take the exam, and some of their colleagues who got PhD... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-03-0.u9790	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since we have completed the debate on the 1, 2, 3 and 4 part of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly can determine that the day for voting on the bill's proposal is immediately following the completion of the draft law. In accordance with this provision, I hereby determine Friday 3 October 2014 starting at 13.20 a.m. as the day for voting on the first four item agenda of this session, i.e.: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Property; Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (the Second Project of Health Development of Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters. Dear People's MPs, 15 minutes must pass in order to reset the system, so that the new MPs who took office today can vote equally with you. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 158 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Property since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Property, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 155, against – four abstentions – no, three of the 162 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that the vote was – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 162 of the total attendance of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – seven, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 of the total attendance of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – five, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 162 of the total attendance of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – eight, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 out of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 164 of the total attendance of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – seven, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 162 of the total attendance of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote, 166 of the total attendance of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you it's Article 3. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 160, against – eight, with abstention – there are no votes, three of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Property, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – nine abstentions – there are no votes, three of the 171 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Public Property. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – five abstentions – there are no votes, six of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 166 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I remind you it's Article 2. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to the vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, v – 10 abstentions – no, three of the 171 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – nine abstentions – there are no, two of the 171 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Since we now need to decide on the proposals for a law on the approval of international agreements, points 3 and 4 of the agenda, I remind you that, under Article 105, paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Serb Development Development Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Other Project for the Development of Health of Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164 against – no one, with abstentions, voted seven of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to item 4 of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Sarad and mutual assistance in the Customs Issues. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted three of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The session is due Tuesday at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
