ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is likely to resolve an enigma that burdens the media in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, a variety of speculation and bids on who is our candidate for president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would not much like to talk about the importance of the president of the National Assembly, about what he has in mind by law and by the Constitution, but about what may be equally important, and that is how much the president of the National Assembly contributes to the reputation of the National Assembly and the reputation of each MP individually. Unfortunately, in the past 2000 to 2012, it seems to me that the wish of all the presidents of the National Assembly was for the National Assembly to lose the importance that the Constitution and the law had. To lose the importance that this is the highest body in the Republic of Serbia, which is passed by laws, and perhaps the other function many forget about, which is the function of the National Assembly and the control of the work of the executive government. For the matter to be even worse, in all the Rules of Procedures that the National Assembly brought during that period, every Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly was getting worse and worse. Let me remind you, earlier in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it was necessary to sit 126 MPs in order for the Assembly to lead the debate. Allegedly because of the great number of working days and the obligations of the Members of the People, and I do not know what these are more obligations of the Members of the People than to participate in the work of the National Assembly, this provision was changed, so it was necessary to sit just one third of the MPs in the hall. So it was hard to do, I don't know why, so it was determined that the National Assembly should be chaired by the National Assembly and at least one MP to lead the debate. I ask the question – What kind of picture did we send to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as the National Assembly? It may have made sense in the period when they transferred in 2003 to the National Assembly, so the citizens did not see what was going on here, but then the National Assembly sessions existed and the National Assembly was constantly losing its reputation because there were no MPs in the hall. The desire was also for those who brought and voted such rules of procedure, that the MP did not have too much rights, especially in the debate of the National Assembly, and that the MP was less involved in the work of the National Assembly. That was the situation until 2012. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure have not been changed, but the manner of conduct and treatment of the MPs has changed. The Rules of Procedure have not been changed most for the reasons, since we have all been put forward as a government and as an opposition in that Rules of Procedure, we have felt his and her good and bad sides, that we have a desire to make a normal Rules of Procedure that will restore the reputation he deserves to the National Assembly. National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic has a rich parliamentary experience in his life. What was most important was also the MP of opposition parties. As a MP who was in the opposition, he was in a position to feel on his skin what it means to be a president who is not good, what it means to be a president who abuses the powers given to him by his rules of law. I am absolutely sure that it is her life motto – which you do not want to yourself, does not do to others. That is why I believe it will be one of the best presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the recent parliamentary history of the Republic of Serbia. It will have to do much to increase the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the reputation of each MP, the reputation and quality of the sessions to be held in the coming period. He will have to overcome, not only to meet the standards set by former President Nebojsa Stefanovic, who are very high and I am absolutely sure that this job will not be easy. But Serbia must change, some bad habits in the past must change, and the National Assembly must take its place in the Serb society that belongs to it, which is that the MPs are holders of the sovereignty of Serbian citizens, to respond to the citizens of Serbia for their work, and that the president of the National Assembly as a person representing the National Assembly must do the same to the citizens of Serbia. We are absolutely sure that Maja Gojkovic has met all these conditions and that is why we have also proposed her as a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u7	Before the search opens, I remind you that it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary groups. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the MP group of Serbian Progressive Party – two hours, 43 minutes and 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group – 30 minutes; the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party – 22 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia – 12 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of the Unity Serbia – 8 minutes and 24 seconds; the MP group of New Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Vojvodina Hungarians – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction, the Democratic Party of Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPA Group of the S. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 9(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u8	Dear President, dear colleagues, here we are today, almost 40 days after the elections, finally joining the constitution of parliament, the election of presidents, the election of vice-presidents and other working bodies and committees to begin the work. We had a campaign where great expectations of the citizens were from this call. I'm sorry we wasted so much time getting to this point. Today, when we listened to the proposal of a distinguished colleague, Arsic, about a new candidate, or candidate for Parliament's president, we listened more to the criticism and, I think, some analysis of the Rules of Procedure. I suppose it was an announcement to amend the Rules of Procedure that will follow very quickly. Our relationship with the ruling majority and the president elected today, we will appreciate through these amendments to the Rules of Procedure that are being announced today, that is, how the role of the opposition in this House will be resolved - whether the opposition will be reduced rights or not, whether it will work more on the democraticity of parliament, whether it will be done more, what my colleague Arsic said, and what pleased me, at the control role of parliament towards the executive power, towards the government. These are all the things that we expect from the President of Parliament, I believe that today, of course, she will be elected, but also by the parliamentary majority, because it seems to me, did not exist in this area that is being announced. Over 200 MPs will support the government and be in the majority. The opposition will be few, and thus the role of those who lead this assembly is more important to enable us from the opposition to work, to address citizens, to present our ideas, to criticise the government where there is room for criticism, and not to be punished in some way or to be reduced of our rights. We will today abstain from voting on this proposal because we want to see how the new president will have a relationship with parliament, in which way he will fulfil all these obligations that his colleague Arsic spoke about, but in any case we will be ready to co-operate and have in us colleagues who will support it every time she works to strengthen the role of parliament that should play in the Constitution and in modern democratic tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u9	The word is made by Parliament Group President Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as far as this proposal is concerned, I really have nothing to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u11	The speaker of the parliamentary group Miroslav Markicevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u12	Dear chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens watching this transmission, the New Serbia parliamentary group and New Serbia MPs will support the proposal of counterpart Arsic, and we will vote for Maja Gojkovic as a candidate for National Assembly President. We want to believe, and knowing her as a colleague in this House, that the trend of the work of this assembly that was in the past year and a half will continue, that the spirit of tolerance ruled among MPs, that the ruling majority, unlike that of the previous parliament, respected the rights of MPs and the National Assembly as controllers of the executive government. We especially want to point out that we are glad that the candidate for National Assembly is one woman, because that spirit, not only of legal obligation, is grown by us in New Serbia. Once again, I would like to say that New Serbia MPs will support the proposal and vote for Maja Gojkovic for the president of the National Assembly for all of the reasons I have stated in the previous sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u13	Thank you very much. The word is made by Parliament's president Dragan Gilas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament and MPs, there is little to add to this reasoning that we have received about the candidate for Parliament's president. There was no explanation, as you yourself are aware. We have heard mostly stories about what happened from 2000 to 2012, which says that again in Serbia we will have a return to the past and a return to what was, rather than as responsible people, who have received citizens' trust, we are dealing with things that we should do in the future. Perhaps it was wrong that it was decided that only one third of the MPs were sufficient in parliament to work. We can make up for it, suggest that there be two-thirds of the MPs from now on enough for the quorum, so if there are no two-thirds that Parliament does not work. I don't want to talk too much about a candidate for Parliament's president, because I see that those who suggest it don't want to talk much either. I don't think it would be useful to talk about the New Sad, the affairs, the money the city is supposed to pay today for the contracts that were signed at the time. I believe that Mrs Gojkovic is only a symbol of what Serbia today is and that this majority, made by the will of the people, is reflected in Serbia today. What kind of Serbia do we live in today? We live in a country where people are afraid, where they can't speak. We live in a country where children are killed by elementary schools. We live in a country where people are killed for a few hundred dinars. We live in a country of aggression. We live in a country where it's become normal for people with minority opinion to have the right to say whatever you want, to insult them and qualify them the way you want. We live in a country that today has more pensioners than employees. We live in a country where no one gets very upset when they read that 500 people are employed in a public company the day before the elections and thus gets several thousand votes. There's no response from the authorities to that. No shifts within 24 hours if they weren't familiar with it, so they found out. There's nothing going on in this country. (Milovan Drecun, from the place: Let him cheat on the subject.) Thanks for the suggestions. I'm the new MP. Any suggestion given from the scene will mean a lot to me to be better at what the citizens have chosen me for. We live in a country where that hate speech is something that, unfortunately, was symbolized by Mrs Gojkovic in the campaign. This is what I expected when this enigma for the media, according to an esteemed colleague, is being resolved today, an enigma that I thought was much more important for the citizens of Serbia than for the media, but in this country the media is obviously the most important one, which has allowed itself to say in its pre-election talks to those who think differently that seed should be destroyed. Here, I think otherwise. My name is probably only mentioned because I am the president of the opposition party, but I really expect the President of Parliament to give an explanation for those words, if it is already too much to give an apology, because there are many of us who think differently, who we also have children who need to live, and such a message is something that is primarily directed towards them. I want to believe that those words weren't the way we heard them and that there was something else behind them. I see there's anxiety when someone from the opposition speaks. I see there's a problem with hearing about it. I see that in this country no one is bothered, nor do you gentlemen, that your views are publicly in the media of people like Kristian Golubovic. I can see that it's not a problem that a man like that is visiting all the media today, even though he spent half his life in prisons, even though he's got a judicial verdict for 14 years. Such a man, who I hear is an artist, so perhaps he is also a candidate for minister, expert in the new government, is a man who speaks freely, who speaks normally of the people of the opposition as thieves, who says he shares two powers and supports the party in power. None of you feel that any way to give up, but other people like that in the media, and then we'll wonder why this is happening to us on the streets, in schools, why it happens every step of the way. It is the responsibility of all of us, not just you in power, but us in opposition, that in the way we speak, the way we work, help and do everything that doesn't happen. Those who are in power today have the opportunity to do so specifically. We who are in opposition have the opportunity to talk about it. Let us stop from this House, which is the highest House in this country and whose president should be, from sending messages of aggression, hatred, impatience. That's what our citizens expect from us. The Democratic Party and our parliamentary group will not vote for Mrs Gojkovic as the candidate for National Assembly President. We'll keep an eye on her work. We'll do anything to make sure that the reputation of this institution, which has already been humiliated by the ideas of a rotating president and similar nonsense that we've been listening to for several days, comes back again. We believe that it is important for everyone in Serbia to have this parliament ambushed, to have as few ugly and difficult words as possible, and as many proposals and concrete things as possible. I expect the new president to put the laws proposed by the Democratic Party in vain in the past term, such as the banking sector law, which would allow citizens not to be abused by banks, as well as businesses, on the agenda of parliament and all others that we will repeat. We're going to make concrete suggestions, wanting this country to be better. Of the majority, the president of parliament depends on what this House will look like for the next four years. Once again, the Democratic Party's position is to be against this proposal because of everything I have stated, and I want the President of Parliament to assure us by his work that today's fear of what this parliament will look absolutely unwarranted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u15	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, where it is said that the speaker can speak only of the agenda. The previous speaker spoke of everything but the agenda. I find it a little strange when someone complains about getting into a working relationship with public enterprises, although it is known that both public enterprises and the entire state sector are loaded, filled with 780,000 people. Then when I spoke in this House that there are no innocents in this business, but that innocence or guilt is directly proportional to the length of being in power, and it is known that the party to which the previous speaker belongs and led is far more responsible because both scurvy and mother-in-law and brothers and godmothers work in that state sector without any criteria. The Serbian Progressive Party is the first party to say -- stop employment and put a moratorium on public sector employment, and earlier this year there was no political courage to make such a decision. The hate speech is, I think, patented not now, patented in the 2012 campaign, patented in campaigns from before, when about Alexander Vukic, about Tomislav Nikolic said anything, but at the time it was not a hate speech, it was probably music for the ears of some here in the hall. I will use these 10 seconds to say that there is fear in Serbia, but in Serbia only those who have wronged the law, who have become rich in law, well, they have fear, because they will have to respond, no matter what they are, no matter what media controlled, no matter how rich they are or whose party they have, zero tolerance for crime and corruption, and such people have reason to fear. I don't think anyone should have the courage to defend people like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u17	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the president of the DS Group. This is his first term. I honestly would not like to feel 10% on my skin as the MP of the opposition what I felt until 2012, exclusions from the session of non-halloral MPs, taking away words, sharing warnings, amendments to the Rules of Procedure. I don't know what's wrong with the fact that in my presentation, I said that we should raise the reputation of the National Assembly, that the President of the National Assembly is the most responsible for the reputation of the National Assembly, and God's people's MPs are also responsible. Why don't we have a working quorum? What is there for those who want to deal with politics and be MPs, what is more beautiful, more serious than sitting in the O.R. when the debate of the National Assembly is? I would not even like to, when it comes to quoting that our candidate said that "political inexperiencers should be crushed by seeds," I hope I hit a quote, but now I'm going to say another. It was said at a rally in Novi Sad, our candidate for National Assembly president said "Corruption and crime are the seeds of evil to be eradicated", not a word about the opposition. I don't know why someone's identifying themselves about that. As for the banking sector law, I may have overlooked it, I don't remember seeing one of those laws. It may have been, but I know that we have passed the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, and I know that at that time in the adoption of that law, where the National Bank was proposed, the SNS parliamentary group actively participated in the adoption of laws and that with the help of all MPs, we have managed to correct some of the provisions of the law and make the law even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u19	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u20	The JS parliamentary group will support Maja Gojkovic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given that I have known Maja Gojkovic for over 20 years and that in 2004, Maja Gojkovic ran for Mayor of Novi Sad directly in the elections, went to the polls and won. If the entire Novi Sad then had the confidence to vote for Maja Gojkovic and she is also a lawyer, then I am sure that Maja Gojkovic will be a good president of the Assembly. We were not wrong when we voted for a lady not in the last meeting but in the one before that, for Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. I think it was one of the better presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the lady. The JS is also sure that Maja Gojkovic will also be a good president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and will not apply the double arches, that he will respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is why JS will vote for Maja Gojkovic to be the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u21	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u22	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I think it is a day when we choose the president of the National Assembly the day when we choose the first among the equals in the 10th Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the ideal opportunity for all the MPs on behalf of the SNS Group to congratulate us on the election and to wish us all work in one democratic spirit, full of respect, respect, to cross political attitudes and arguments and to come up with the best solutions. This is the path that the citizens of Serbia expect us to look for the points of merger, not to dig and deepen the trenches that have separated us all these years. The Serbian Progressive Party is aware of the role the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia plays in our society and the role is not only legislative, although the role is the most dominant and most consummated. The role of the National Assembly is both representative and electoral, but also control. This role was the motive for the SNS to propose a rotating principle in the election for the president of the National Assembly, because we wanted this control role of parliament to be consumed in the strongest possible sense by both opposition MPs and opposition parliamentary groups to be able to give a candidate to the president of the National Assembly. I think it's a democratic step, and I think that's the principle we should go towards. Of course, it's not a lack of personnel, as someone said, in the lack of arguments and in the blindness of some political hatred, but responsibility. Responsibility to parliament, responsibility to Serbia, responsibility to the citizens who sent us here. I am sorry that this constitutive session is polluted by individuals with false or a desire not to look into their faces, a desire not to remember how Parliament was established and how long we waited for the constitution of parliament in both 2008 and 2007 and 2004. Months lasted in negotiations, contingents and quotas, kidnapping functions. This parliament and this assembly are as fast as possible. The results were announced on March 24th, and I will remind you of the election on March 16th, today it is April 23rd. We will get the established parliament less than a month from the declaration of final results. Government for a month. Remind me when it was in Serbia? When was it so fast and so quality? When, when did you get a chance to do it quickly, did you spend months and months? I think before we speak, before we make a statement, before we give criticism, we really need each one of us to look in the face. The function of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a political function, a couple of exeleans. That is why the SNS has proposed to Mrs Maja Gojkovic, a woman with years of age, not to mention decades of political experience. Although I am now at risk of not mentioning women and years in one sentence, but I don't think Maya will mind me, but Maya has gained this political experience at all levels of state administration, from the City of Novi Sad, which led in 2004, the province MP, the Minister of the Republic and the Federal Government, the MP in the Republic of Serbia, and I am sure that this experience will be conveyed in the right way also as the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What was important to the SNS was the fact that Maja Gojkovic is tolerant, ready for compromises and ready for deals. We really believe that Maja Gojkovic, in the work of the Assembly, will succeed in working with all MPs, with all parliamentary groups, in creating one democratic atmosphere where citizens will see that we are doing a serious job here and that we are in this business together, regardless of political differences. Mrs. Gojkovic comes from a multinational environment such as Novi Sad, such as the AP Vojvodina, and as such she learned what wealth means. She learned what tolerance means, what it means to agree, make a compromise and look for the best solution. What we expect from Maja Gojkovic as the future president of the National Assembly is to continue with the further modernisation of parliament, the modernisation launched by the former National Assembly President, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, by introducing, or by continuing the implementation of the e-parliament, the electronic parliament, by introducing the Life Strip, by opening the Assembly towards citizens, according to the media. We expect and I'm sure that as well as she's done the job she's been entrusted with so far, she'll be saving in the National Assembly, as we did last year with savings of over 500 million dinars. Finally, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expects live diplomatic activity. The government of the Republic of Serbia is expecting full EU membership negotiations, and all of us in the next four years of this mandate to bring legislation into line with EU legislation. I am sure that Maja Gojkovic, as president of parliament, and also as a woman who was very active in the Foreign Affairs Committee in the previous meeting, and her quality, her expertise, her knowledge, will best implement and invest best in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u23	The president of the Balint Pastor parliamentary group has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group will support Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's candidacy as president of the National Assembly. We already did it yesterday with the signatures. The reason is very simple. Since 2007, we have voted in favour of each candidate for the president of the National Assembly behind whom the majority for the election was sufficient. We voted for Mr Dulic's election, although we were an opposition parliamentary group. We voted for Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic's election and did not regret it. We voted for Mr. Nebojja Stefanovic's election. Today we will vote for Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's election. We believe that there should be as much consensus as possible about the election of the National Assembly president and the National Assembly president should be the first among the equal. That doesn't mean the same responsibility. Of course, the responsibility of the day-to-day president of the National Assembly is the largest, on the one hand, because the president of the National Assembly is another man, another person in the country according to our Constitution after the President of the Republic, and on the other hand, it is a significant function because, according to Serbia's highest legal act, the National Assembly is the most representative body and holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in Serbia. Unfortunately, the National Assembly is still the only institution of the legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia and will remain so as long as this Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is in force. Of course, it's also an important control role, but I think it's the most significant representative role. If we are proposing laws, if we are investing amendments, if we are discussing bill proposals and other acts, then we are doing so in a way that we are representing citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The responsibility of the president of the National Assembly is also high because this person depends on how the control or supervisory role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be played in practice. We all promised, or all the presidents had promised so far that the focus of their work would be to strengthen the control or control role of the National Assembly. I have to admit, we didn't do much in previous terms, as far as that goes. I do not belong to MPs who consider parliament to be the highest authority in the Republic of Serbia. It simply cannot be so under the Constitution, since we have the state government organized by the parliamentary system, not by the assembly system. There's a division of power, there's no system of unity of government. This means that according to the gypsum, there should be mutual relations and mutual influence between the National Assembly on the one hand and the Serbian government, on the other. As we know, the National Assembly chooses the Government and therefore controls it, and under certain conditions the Government may request the disbandation of the National Assembly, which we have seen not long ago and in practice. So this mutual relationship, these interactions should exist and should function in practice. I think Mrs. Gojkovic, there is now a huge chance in front of you, since you will be chosen by most of whom none of your predecessors have been chosen. I think there will be another one of the massive support of Dragan Marsicanin, who was chosen with one quite massive majority at the end of 2000, but so far no one has been elected with most of the perhaps 200 MPs. It's one big obligation, it's one big responsibility for you, and on the other hand now should show that the National Assembly is exercising its jurisdiction. It should now be shown in action that the Government is being controlled by the National Assembly. I don't have any excessively big illusions. This is my fourth term in the National Assembly. But if we succeed in making a small improvement compared to previous calls, then we have already achieved quite a great deal, and the People's MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will help you in this work as much as we can do to us as a constructive parliamentary group you can certainly count on. I think the most important three traits are for the president, for the president of the National Assembly all the time, and three factors are important. First of all, the president of the National Assembly should first and foremost have authority in his party and his parliamentary group. If that's not there, regardless of party functions, then the candidate for National Assembly president cannot be a successful MP and I think you're meeting this condition. On the other hand, there should be experience, parliamentary experience. In this meeting of the National Assembly there are more than 110 MPs who were first elected to this post and there are only a few dozen MPs whose this is the fourth, fifth, sixth term and you are among those MPs, if we count both the parliament of Serbia and the parliament of the former Yugoslavia, Serbia-Montenegro, etc. On the third hand, the candidate for National Assembly should be an ambitious person, because without it he cannot be successful in this work. As I said, we do not have some exaggeration about what I said, of course the parliament in Serbia is in crisis like this institution in crisis in almost every country in the world, because parliament is perceived as some pre-greeting institution that is inefficient and that does nothing good for the people and for the state. Of course, it can't be like that, I said, I don't have that excessively big illusion in the sense that something from the roots is going to change now, as far as the experiences of the National Assembly by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are concerned, but if you're going to be a successful president of the National Assembly, if things are going to happen here in agreement with parliamentary groups, then we're all going to take a big step together to make the reputation of the National Assembly a little different than they are now. I wish you success in advance in this significant function. I hope in the interest of all of us that the National Assembly in the coming years will be a representative body in all respects of these words and bearer of constitutional and legislative authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u25	The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u26	Thank you. At first, I'd like to correct your mistake from the beginning of the session. The name of our parliamentary group is SDA Sandzaka PDD. As regards the election for Parliament's president, as a minority party, we expect full understanding, full support and an open door for co-operation. In the past, we have worked well together with today's candidate for Parliament's president, we know each other well, and we have no reason to believe that we will not have this support and cooperation. As for SDA support, Sandzak will support SNS's proposal to elect Maja Gojkovic as president of parliament. We hope that together in our work we will justify the trust of the citizens who have delegated us to represent them in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u27	The word has the president of the parliamentary group, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u28	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, it is a pleasure and an honor to have gathered today in this number and to choose the first among the equals as our fellow Pastor said today. At the same time, we also choose a person, not only a person who will represent the Serbian parliament as an institution, but also a person who will be forced to co-operate with us in this legislative work for the next four years, estimating both principles and tolerance and democracy. Knowing my esteemed colleague, Maja Gojkovic, I would say that she truly has all the qualities that will enable her to successfully perform this responsible function. I would also remind you that today we are in a home that was built in 1936. I'm always inspired by the message this building sends whenever we enter it. Here you can see one strength and seriousness of our people. The importance that political institutions have in our political culture is seen and that we can certainly further upgrade and improve our hard work. We all have a title here called the People's MP. So we represent the will, we should represent the will of those who chose us in the elections, who supported us and who expect us the most. I really don't think Mrs. Gojkovic, our distinguished colleague, is going to let us all be one voting machine. The fact is that the ruling majority that will soon be formed in the Serbian government has indeed one historic, unprecedented majority in our new parliamentaryism, but at the same time we are here to seriously debate as serious people about the extremely serious problems ahead of us. I am convinced that Ms Gojkovic, on the basis of her primary education, because she is a lawyer, will have a rich political experience in both branches of government, both in legislative and executive, as well as in law enforcement, has learned to respect the letter of the law, to hold firmly in the hand and the Law on the National Assembly and Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and to respect the same letter of the Constitution of Serbia. It will be her most powerful weapon in the coming period. I would like to point out that it is important that it now continues a tradition that at the same time as a representative of Serbia's majority population, as a woman that has been elected to one of the key functions in the country. In Serbia, analysts say, and we will all agree that this is the second post after Serbia's president. So, along with my colleagues, who in almost one-third are also our electoral body and our citizens. Indeed continue a tradition that its distinguished representatives, and Mrs Micic, Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, have already established, which is to respect the dignity of this highest body in Serbia's political system. I can only wish her that she used many prerogatives of her authority, but that she would not be in a position to call as predecessor Micic a state of emergency. Serbia needs one regular state, one regular dialogue, one serious consensus on the extremely serious problems ahead of us. I am sure that she will succeed in promoting this consensus with the emphasis of tolerance, with the emphasis on democracy, with the emphasis on the right for each of us, regardless of which political party we belong, to have the full right and freedom to express our opinions and to represent our views. I think it's possible that all of us here are conducting a tolerated, civilized democratic dialogue. It's a good thing cameras are almost all the time included in this respectable home because citizens can weigh every word we say with attention. They're the ones who will judge how right we are or how wrong we are. That is why it is also important that the very authority and political and personal, professional and educational and capacity of the Honorable Madam Chairman, I hope that we will choose, the President of the National Parliament will be equally respected and imposed. I also want her to maintain a great deal of autonomy, autonomy in relation to the executive power, it is by the letter of the Constitution and so should be in the political system, and to wish that she also represents the face of Serbia and the face of this high home and in parliamentary diplomacy Serbia enters a phase of disseminating diplomatic activity. Our regional and European and international agenda is extremely rich and I have already come from some of my experiences along with distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, who participate in parliamentary diplomacy as representatives of the Serbian Parliament, I can see that this picture of Serbia is changing. I am convinced that Mrs Gojkovic will indeed contribute to this, so to speak, the positive image of Serbia and the promotion of Serbia's positive image in the world. Time will show how much criticism or our positive expectations, which I express on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, are right, but I think we'll agree that we have to and that we want to wish her successful work and successful co-operation with all of us. So I expect that the activity of this home, the Serbian Parliament, will be extremely accelerated, extremely dynamic. Sometimes we won't agree, but it's important that we all be aware of our responsibilities, that each one of us truly bears part of the responsibility for respecting the authority and dignity of this legislative body. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I wish you successful work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u29	The word is Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u30	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will first say that I am one of the signatories who supported yesterday's proposal to be the president of the National Assembly and I did not just do it so that there would be one more or one more number to support its candidacy. I didn't do it for a reason to be respected and said, "She is now the vice president of the SNS or she has a great reputation, but for reasons I think that if we were to be guided only by the well-known -- whoever's innocent throws a stone, I don't think there would be any stone here and I won't talk about past mistakes, held elections, or the winner of the election. The people said what they had to say on March 16th, and I think that's very clear. In addition, last week when we joined the constitution of the Assembly and the verification of the mandates of MPs, we had a college where the heads and deputies of the parliamentary groups attended both the positional and the opposition. I agreed with the views of opposition MPs' representatives that it was not good for that kind of gentlemen's agreement, which I think was proposed out of very good intentions, that someone rotated the president by changing every year, and that once the president of the Assembly would be out of office, and the second time out of the opposition, because it violates authority, raises the authority of the president of the National Assembly as an institution. I must also say that with power, and the power here is being exercised by the National Assembly as the most legislative body, and the President of the Assembly, who is making the same legislative authority personified, symbolized, treated gently and should not be distracted from the mind that power is always on loan. What's more dangerous than any criticism is exactly commendation. I won't praise Mrs. Gojkovic for not having much reason to praise her. If you ask me why, we don't know each other. It's very curtous to say hello to her when I see her. We're colleagues in the profession, lawyers. I've never had a drink with a woman or talked about any subjects. I don't think it's desirable in a democratic society, if you will, and the National Assembly should be a single correction and that in fact the degree of democracy of society is being looked at in relation to the ruling majority towards the minority, I won't judge anyone in advance and I won't prejudge things. I think we need to give everyone a chance, give each other a choice, so if he's smart, let him take that chance. If he is not smart, there is a different way to choose another president of the National Assembly again. If she condemns any proposed candidate for president here, it's Maja Gojkovic or anyone else, I think it would be a hate speech, and I don't think we'll do anything with hate speech. We have seen it in the past, and finally, hate only exhausts and eats the one who feels it and grows it. On behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I will support Mrs Gojkovic with one note that she remembers, as well as anyone else, that the government is never being guarded by the reason for the government but by authority for a reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u31	The word is Dr Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable chairman, the SDPS parliamentary group will give full support to Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's election as president of the National Assembly. What do we expect? We expect the National Assembly to carry out the task in the next four - year period with all the tasks ahead of it. First of all, we think of European integration, the laws that we will have to adopt in a faster process than we have so far. We also expect that this high legislative house will have a more peaceful atmosphere, a better tolerance, and that in a democratic process we will talk about getting as high-quality laws as possible, that we will be open to different opinions, because our task is to pass those laws that will contribute most to Serbia becoming part of the European People's Community. Just because there is a vast majority here doesn't mean that we can't discuss every law very openly, very systematically and in these differences, we get better laws for Serbia's well-being. The reputation this parliament must have, and we are witnessing and that in the public it is often wanted to reduce the reputation of this high house, I think our obligation is very large, to achieve that this Parliament has a great reputation among Serbian citizens. There is a great responsibility for the first man of parliament, the first among the equals, and we expect it from Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Given that I come from Vojvodina and that Mrs. Maja Gojkovic is my fellow citizen, we live together in Novi Sad, we expect to discuss very much in this meeting the laws on the autonomy of Vojvodina and that we will achieve that degree of tolerance, consistency that is necessary for Serbia to move forward while respecting the Constitution, laws and autonomy of Vojvodina. It is in this sense that I am fully, on behalf of the SDPS parliamentary group, giving full support and I want success in the work of Mrs Maja Gojkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u33	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups. The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u34	Respect, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's session was supposed to have, above all, one solemn character, given that indeed most exist in parliament and that the majority can vote literally whatever they want. However, I think it is precisely Mrs. Maja Gojkovic who has the most reasons for dissatisfaction, because what was an explanation why she was proposed for the president of this Parliament is actually something that is really not appropriate. We think that this should be said much more and that Serbian citizens have a more complete insight into who the SNS, or your coalition is proposing to the president of Serbia's parliament. It's not about solving the enigma that the media have. This is, as far as I can tell from this place, a large enigma just for a huge part of the SNS parliamentary club and this is an enigma for a large part of Serbia's citizens, given that it is a person who has a great parliamentary experience, has a large multiparty experience, in this room it sat, in every part of this Parliament there were members, five, six or seven parties in Serbia. It's something that's a fact and it's kind of surprising, but it's something that can just contribute to showing understanding of the opposition and of all of us who are minorities, and I remind you that since 2000, this majority in parliament hasn't existed, and I think it's exactly the obligation for the majority to adequately treat the minority. I remind you of one more thing, Mr. Arsic was just talking about how since 2012, parliament has been decent and I suppose he wanted to say that no one throws shoes at the president of the Assembly anymore, no water spills, no pajamas when we have foreign delegations that speak here. It's only because the opposition is such that it doesn't, and precisely from those positions, where you're sitting it was happening and I'm glad that it's changed and that it's gone. What is a fact, today I will not criticise or praise Mrs Gojkovic, I will speak the facts, and the fact is that Mrs Gojkovic said very difficult words in the meeting in Novi Sad on 20 February 2014, a hate speech. That hate speech is not appropriate for people who are members of parliament, nor is it suitable for someone who wants to propose to be president of the assembly. If the media mistranslated it, if all of us who saw it in the broadcast didn't understand, this is exactly the moment to explain, when you say that the rooted seed of evil was not said to be destroyed, the fact is, you said that they were eradicated, that they couldn't be reborn, that's the words that, believe me, in Serbia, long ago, in the 1990s, no one spoke. If you think what I'm saying is false, you can go out on sites, it's very easy to find, you'll find it on the "Blica", February 21st, an absolute quote of what's been said and it's something we're worried about, given that, as someone who's had an extremely radical rhetoric in the 1990s, who was Mr. Seselj's first associate, it's someone who has to show respect or at least show one apology regarding what was said in the campaign. We can have understanding, because it's a school where Seselj himself said that what he's saying about the campaign has nothing to do with what he's doing when he comes to power. You have also spoken of the Rules of Procedure, you have spoken, Mr Arsic, of many things concerning the past, unaware that you have been running this parliament for almost two years, no one has prevented you from changing the Rules of Procedure, no one has prevented you from matching the needs of those parties that are in the majority and today you can do it again. It is not forbidden to return most of the 126 MPs who have to attend the session, it is something that was natural in Serbia. We felt that MPs do not only have a job to sit in Serbia's parliament, MPs have a job to tour their voters and that is something that is also natural, but you today have no right to apologize for what you have done for the past two years, nor do you have the right to blame anyone for not being restructured by parliament in the way you would have done it. No one was stopping you. Practically today we have a single reconstruction of parliament, the same coalition is in power, we have a government reconstruction, the same coalition will be in power, there is no big news. The only question is why are you not correcting the past two years and who has prevented you from doing so and will you continue your political action to rely on 2000-2012, or will you finally explain why Serbia is less alive today than in 2012? That is the essence that concerns the citizens of Serbia. What is important to understand is that you and everyone who sits here today, we are chosen by a little over 50% of the citizens, of those 50%, voted for this majority that is present here, which is only a quarter compared to the Serbian citizen's electoral body. So three-quarters of Serbian citizens did not vote for this coalition, which today has a large majority in the Serbian parliament. Note that the vast majority of Serbian citizens are expecting results. I think the most natural thing would be to end today's session as we started, to say solemnly, but to speak to us and Mrs. Gojkovic, to tell us what she said in Novi Sad, to tell us which part of her biography should be deleted, given that we haven't heard, except that she's a lawyer, I don't know if you're doing that job or in parliament, as far as we've heard, some 14, 15 or more years, but we're interested – what part of your political history should be forgotten, what is it you regret, what is it that you want to promise us and what is it that you're going to do? We're a minority here, but we'll be brave, we'll have the courage to tell you in the face, to all of you who are in most of what we think, no matter how bad you are, no matter how much you rebel. This is our obligation also because of those voters who voted for us and those who did not vote for you. As you can see, Serbian citizens today can see that today the DS is the only party in the Serbian parliament that has been taking the opposition course since the first day. We will not refrain from voting, we will not be held back, we will vote against, because we believe that even among you there are those who are much better and better-quality candidates, much more tolerated, people who deserve to lead this parliament ahead of the majority, and unfortunately, by your actions in the past, you have not shown the degree of tolerance necessary to lead this parliament. I'd like to make a mistake, I'd like it not to, but the expressions of your colleagues and yours show that you either don't understand what I'm saying or you don't like it. I'm sorry if you don't like it, I'm sorry if it makes you nervous, but trust me, you'll have a lot of anxiety from our party, because we expect you to finally show the result, not just criticism from the past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u35	The word has the head of the parliamentary group, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Sutanovac and I have graduated from the same university, even the same direction, but I don't remember that math you just taught us at the Faculty of Engineering. According to this mathematics, by which you have shown that this ruling majority of maltene has no legitimacy, I would like you to apply to your parliamentary group. Would your MP group then be in parliament? Then we'd make a decision. I'm afraid this is all like when the team coach who lost the game after the press conference says it's the weed, we had more corners, we had more chances. The result is what it is, the SNS has taken responsibility and we show that responsibility because it has also been established by parliament and the Serbian government will vote at a historic maximum at speed. As for the Rules of Procedure, Mr Sutanovac, we did not want to create a Rules of Procedure that will apply exclusively to the ruling majority, as you have done since 2008. We wanted the Rules of Procedure to be part of a debate, a product of agreement between all parliamentary groups, not a force that the ruling majority could have. The Serbian Progressive Party is an open party, open to people who have never been anywhere in any party, but we are also open to people who were members of some parties. We are closed only to people who have sinned against the laws, who would like a membership card to hide from responsibility. That's what we're closed to. Otherwise, if anyone was sitting anywhere here, we're open, so let them impose on themselves with quality. As for the enigma, please do not worry about enigma within the SNS parliamentary group because it is not there and because we will show it, because all 136 MPs will vote for Maja Gojkovic as a candidate for the future president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You're more concerned about enigma in your parliamentary group. You worry more about your backyard. Don't worry about us. We'll take care of us. Everyone take care of themselves. We'll take care of both the state and us, and we'll take care of you if we have to. You take care of you and your MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u37	The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is one particular difference between looking at the situation between me and Mr. Sutanovec today. He was in a similar situation on January 21st 2001. They had most 176 then, they could do whatever they wanted in this congregation, they could make laws whatever they wanted, they could literally do what they wanted to do. I was then an opposition, and I learned when I was that opposition how I should behave when I was in power. It's that school. When I was talking about the past, I was saying what the president of the National Assembly shouldn't do, because I don't want Mr. Sutanovac, or anyone else in this room, to be the chairman, to be water-popping, to throw a shoe, to exercise some right that belongs to him under the Rules of Procedure and by the law. So, we do not want to abuse this power we have in the National Assembly, but that all MPs, regardless of what parliamentary groups they come from, have the same rights. It's not a problem for the Rules of Procedure to change. When we discuss this, we will also invite your political party to the task force, but our wish was as long as this Rules of Procedure applies that those who voted for it feel both good and bad, that one bad Rules of Procedure be a school to all political parties, that such a Rules of Procedure should no longer exist in the Serbian Parliament. When a new one is brought in, we want it not to be for one term, for one government, for one majority, but to be something that can be used for a long time and can only be repaired in some parts of it where a mistake may have been made or because of a consensus with the Constitution. It's our goal in SNS. We're looking at your mistakes and we don't want to repeat them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u39	I give my word to Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, you have not denied me anything, you have just confirmed everything I have said, in just one other way. You can't justify shooting the president with a shoe because he's having a bad session. Mr. Arsic, you came to Parliament in pajamas, wearing yellow ribbons, watering the president. You have no reason to be afraid, we will not do so no matter how much the future President of the Assembly violates the Rules of Procedure or lead badly this Parliament, because that is not what we do. That's the fundamental difference. When you say we have different views, these are the views that distinguish us and that's why we sit on the opposite sides. We've always been on the same line, but on the opposite sides. That's how it's gonna be in this House. Mr Babic, never fewer Serbian citizens went to the polls, 50 per cent. Of those fifty-something percent, fifty percent voted for you. That's a quarter. You can be as angry as you want, but that's a fact. According to Dont's system, you have received as many MPs as you have, and I congratulate you on that, but you have a responsibility to all citizens, and to those who voted and those who did not vote. It's a fact, and you have to get used to having a responsibility and according to the result of the work. The result of the government's work being reconstructed now for the second time is catastrophic. In each segment, life is worse than before 2012. Now we're going to have a new pay cut, all of us, a new tax imposition. You will explain him very easily here because there are many more of you, but Serbian citizens can't handle it. That's the point, and I'll always tell you that here, no matter how many of you there are, because I think you need to hear the voice of the opposition here. As you can see, today the only opposition is the DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u41	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u42	The Honorable Chairman, members 104 and 107 were injured, the Parliament's dignity and too personal address to Maja Gojkovic, who are really small and abundant in hate speech. Since we here have amazing things going on about the election, so someone says the SNS got a little vote, how many votes did they get for this kind of turnout? Can they look themselves in the eye when they're complaining about some percentage, since apparently they don't exist in the electoral body? What I have to say may have happened once in parliament, but no one from the SNS has ever voted for governor of the NBS or how, and that's what the vice president of the DS did. Obviously, some things are forgotten here, because it seems that the president of the DS, the only thing he does zealously, follows Christian Golubovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u43	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u44	Mr. Chairman, you are not the President of the Assembly, but you have managed to violate Members 105, 106 and 107 in this situation when you have allowed the MPs of the majority who are the new MPs and do not understand that the violation of the Rules of Procedure is being advertised for breach of the Rules of Procedure, not for replication. That way you allow them to replicate something they don't normally have the right to under the Rules of Procedure. If you think this goes on like this because they like applause and they're enjoying this new role they've got, then I think you have a serious problem. I know you're here temporarily, but you have a chance to end this nonsense. Because if we're going to go check in with the Rules of Procedure now and use it for replicas, this isn't going anywhere. Of course, then I can use my invitation to the Rules of Procedure to talk about their candidate for National Assembly President. Where's that gonna take us? Nowhere. So if they have something to say in response to the performances of our MPs, let them do it by authorized people for it, not to wave at the Rules of Procedure here and then race who's going to quote more tabloids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u45	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u46	I called in the replica later, Mr. Chairman, but I don't know who I'm replicating. An empty bench, because by the mathematics it insists on and on the account that Mr Sutanovac insists on, he is not in parliament. Six per cent per 50 per cent of voters out there are three per cent. Not enough under the Constitution, by law, not enough for your MP group. Then you're not in parliament. I don't know who I'm replicating, Mr. Schutanovac isn't here. Beneath the census, it's that way. Let's look at this math but in the right way for both MP groups and each one equally. On the other hand, I agree that people in Serbia are having a hard time living, I agree that the unemployment rate is huge, I agree that we need heavy reform measures and SNS, not that it didn't run away from it, but it's very brave, open, and in the election campaign, and before, and now I'm talking about it and we're ready, however much it costs us, politically as it costs us, we're ready to implement them. We are ready to implement them because Serbia will get them. I wish you had the wisdom of 2008 in 2007 to enter, not to distract Serbian citizens that the crisis is a chance or that the crisis won't even tick us, because these were messages from the government in 2008. I wish you'd gone into reform then. We'd be coming out of the crisis by now. This is how hard work has been left in the hands of Alexander Vukic and the SNS, and I am not running away from it, but I agree that some people in Serbia are harder to live than they were up to two years ago. I agree, and I'm sure you're one of them, and you're Mr. Sutanovac. It's hard to accept the situation where a month-long schneider comes to you from Turkey so he sews two, three, five suits, now only once a month can one suit. It's hard to accept that crisis. It hurts this crisis, but that crisis and those measures will first hit us, all the people we're dealing with politics and the SNS is ready for something like that. We were neither born in chairs, nor tied to expensive suits, nor were we expensively bound to armored cars, nor were we bound to boast, nor were we boastful. That's why I believe you regret the time that is far behind us all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u47	I give my word to Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u48	Mr. Chairman, you are required to warn the MP when he is this personal and when his name and last name is addressed to his colleague in the Serbian Parliament. No matter what Dragan Sutanovac, Dragan in the Serbian Parliament, is important, Serbian citizens. There is no one in Serbia today who lives better than in 2012. The standard of living is falling, the purchasing power is in decline, the collapse, the one-hole budget as never before, in a year and a half over five-and-a-half billion debts, we enter debt slavery, and you're talking about suits here. Who's talking about what, the grandmother of the wrinkles? Serbian citizens will seek results. You've been able to explain to them that you haven't been in power for a year and a half, that we've been in power for the past year and a half because the result of our power since before 2012. Now it's time to explain what you're going to do and how you think you're changing Serbia. The way you started today, it won't work. It doesn't matter how many of us are here. Be aware that Milosevic did not have much more MPs, so he left the post. So you have to raise the opposition, be gentle with us. Mr. Granny, I know this is difficult for you, but you have to be nice. And that's hard for you? Exercise, you will now have Mrs. Maja Gojkovic who can help you address us with respect and protect us. We're the only opposition here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u49	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, congratulations on your choice. It's very nice to see so many people in parliament, which I completely agree with, has not been the custom for the last ten years. It really has nothing to do with me not being in parliament for the last ten years, those are some other reasons. It is perfectly natural for the largest parliamentary group to have the right to propose and select a candidate or candidate for Parliament's president and it is completely natural. It is also natural to get a proposal for a reasonable period of time. I can inform you that I, not only myself, have not received a written proposal for this item on the agenda, without any biography, without any proposal from that candidate. So I think it is unserious that this is how the work of a new parliament is started, especially when a parliamentary group, or one political party, is dominant in that parliament, which says it will change everything for the better in this country. I don't think it's a good start. It's not a good thing the former Deputy Prime Minister didn't come to take an oath as an MP, and he was on the SNS election list, but he did it secretly. It is not natural for us to have a debate today that is too rough and that is overly unimportant for today, but it is probably just a difficult start as in many other things. Many wrong facts have been presented, namely wrong thesis, which is not the fact that DS is the only opposition party in this parliament, which, of course, is not because NDS is the same. I don't even agree with that speaker who said the SNS got a small number of votes. I think the SNS got too many votes, but that's the will of the people, so there's nothing we can do about it. We've heard a lot of wrong information. That this is the biggest victory of a list in the history of the Serbian parliament. That is not true, in 2000 and 1990, the winners in the elections had a higher number of votes and a higher percentage of the total number of outputs and more MPs who won. There's always talk of some high speed, that this will be the fastest-established assembly, that the government we'll probably get by Sunday will be the fastest elected, which is not true. Neither, nor the other, nor the third. So the largest number of votes in Serbia's history won DOS in 2000 on 23 December, two million and 402 thousand and something more, which was 64% of the total number of MPs and 176. The parliament was established, which was established after the elections, was established in less than 30 days since 22 January, and the elections were held on 23 December of the previous year. That means 29 days with all Christmases, new years and other holidays. Finally, the government will not be elected by Sunday because the government of Zoran Djindjic was elected on January 25th 2001, 33 days after the election, and this government if elected on Sunday and if we calculate that the elections are completed on 23rd rather than 16, which is essentially what they are, it will be 35 days. Of course, these aren't too important things, these are just facts that say that the new government that's about to take responsibility in Serbia for the next period, that it's more of an esthetical thing, and that's who's faster, who's fastest. I don't think that's the point, and I think most MPs here know that. What Serbia needs is reforms. These are the reforms started not today for the first time, today they are not yet started. They didn't start two years ago, because if they did, you'd see the results, and they're not in any area. Reforms began 14 years ago, but then most of the people sitting in this House today were against these reforms. I look forward to the memory of the majority. That they realized that the Berlin Wall had fallen, that they realized that there was a real sector besides public enterprises, that the fight against crime was something that was done with the police, the judiciary, not the media. But I am afraid that the beginning of this Parliament and the beginning of the work of the next government did not start in a good direction. I've already told you what I resent to Parliament. It will be unserious if we vote today afternoon on the vice presidents of parliament, and at this point no one knows who the proposed people will be. (President: Time.) I think it would be very unusual to find out the candidates for ministers in the future government only Saturday, and then, after that, we vote on these people in 24 hours. I think that one power that has a vast majority, a great trust of citizens, I said too much, has enough opportunities to access its business more seriously. I do not expect anything important in this parliament from the majority, from the future president, or the government that will be elected, so I will not be surprised, but I am afraid that most Serbian citizens, including most of those who voted for you, will be disappointed. Therefore, I urge you to do your job, to deal with what is in the law, in the Rules of Procedure, and thus try to get this troubled country out of the difficult situation it is in today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u51	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's a little hard to talk after my fellow farmer, but I'll try to agree with some of their views. King Peter began the construction of this parliament in 1907. He wanted Serbia to have the dignity of building a National Assembly like those in which the European Parliament was. That building's been built for a long time. Serbia only recently returned to the building. A few states have fallen apart. But in addition to wanting to have a good building, it is likely that King Peter also wanted to have decent messengers. I admit that I am not the greatest achievement of a worthy MP because of my harsh tongue, but I believe that some colleagues will try to be better, more noble and more generous than I am, and I believe that these will be on my left. I want to thank, above all, DS for the good result of the list led by the SNS list. It would have been hard for me to win this convincing victory if it hadn't been for them and if it hadn't been for the people who led the party. I also agree that in 2000, and I was an integral part of it, we had a historic chance to take advantage of enormous energy, and in that energy I don't count on that warm love of yours that you burned down this assembly, I didn't participate in that part, to carry out political and economic reforms in the country. Instead of reforming, in 2000 those who led the country, especially after the prime minister's death, there is one living proof of that, fought against reforms. Political and economic reforms have not been carried out and that is why Serbia is not living better and that is why Serbia is in crisis. Those who today say that we are not fighting the crisis enough have pushed Serbia into a crisis. That's why the objections they made here, because all the time, instead of Parliament and the state, they served Parliament, the people and the state. Now they remind me that I've strayed from the subject, and they've forgotten that these are just answers or attempts to interpret their already spoken speeches. So, I'm sticking to as much of the subject as you have, my dear gentlemen of the opposition, and you've stuck to it. I welcome the chairman's intention to be tolerable, especially according to an opposition that is few. Don't say I didn't warn you you had three percent. I told you that on time. Tolio and you won. You're lucky it was a low turnout and you've succeeded in overcoming that five percent magic censorship. How did you do it, I really don't know. I didn't think that was gonna work for you either. The size of someone is in forgiveness. You are certainly the witnesses that someone who beat you convincingly, and here above all I think of the electoral bearer who won these elections was noble enough for you. After a landslide victory, he didn't want to humiliate you. He gave you a hand of reconciliation. He even suggested that the presidents of the Assembly rotate in four years, as I understood. I must admit I was against that proposal. So, the majority exists and I am one of those who felt that the majority should have the President of Parliament, since this is a second function of importance, since, God forbid, the President of Parliament, whom we choose today, is changing the President of the Republic and this is an extremely important function that I do not think should belong to the opposition. Here are fellow witnesses of my dissatisfaction, that I was not satisfied with the fact that the bearer of the list was so noble and, not wanting to humiliate the defeated, suggested that the presidents rotate as president. I think that the SNS, and I am a representative of the People's Peasants' Party, as a convincing majority party on this election list, has the right to propose its candidate for Parliament's president. They decided who it was. It is mine, as well as all other colleagues on that election list, to support this proposal with our votes in the assembly. Some here have asked why there is no state in this country, even though they are the main culprits of this circumstance and do not need to ask us why this country is brutally torn out of the hands of its citizens. That's what they should ask themselves, they should ask their presidents, those who have led the state in the last 10 years. Why is there a bad living in Serbia? It's not a bad thing to live because we're choosing the President of Parliament today. Serbia is living badly because by 2012, the country's public sector has multiplied to 781 thousand people, which is a smaller country, which has killed 350,000 people more than it was born in that time, thanks to the economic and social situation that the government has contributed to, because another 300 and several thousand people from Serbia have moved away, and the number of people in the public sector has increased. Four hundred thousand people were out of work during that period, dropped out of the business chain. There were no health and pension contributions they would pay. There were no salaries that would increase budget costs by spending. The deficit you've been making up for in your line of work. Your only product in that country was debt. You over-indebted yourself and now you're asking why we're in charge of paying back the debt that you've irresponsibly made at a time when you've had incomes from all the privatisations, when you've had donations, when you've had huge incomes from the diaspora. You were living from the man in charge at the time, not the earner, and now the time has come, so return as thou hast longeded. Now you have to live on what's earned and pay back what you owe. That's why it's hard to live today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u53	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u54	This is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman. Article 106. And the previous speaker is not the only one in a series of flagrant violations of the Rules of Procedure that you have allowed. I know that I repeat that you are here temporarily and that you do not intend to engage in anything that, unfortunately, embellishes this assembly, but I do think that you must react in a situation where we have such an amazing display of various parliamentary examples here, which, by bringing nonsense, encourages yourself to a huge challenge and obviously disappointed by future expectations of the people and the inability to fulfill the huge hope they gave you in these elections, now encourage yourself here by attacking DS and you allow yourself to talk about a candidate whose written proposal we neither got, nor the biography, nor anything, they talk again about who put as many people in public enterprises, and only them, that is, that is, you from most of them have put more than 30,000 people, to talk about impoverishing citizens, and you destroyed the country for two years, they're talking about the growth of debt that you've produced, again, they're talking about the closed businesses that you never know that you know that you're not going to open to it. You, as chairman, should know that here is a proposal from a woman to lead a meeting, according to Mr. Masic, the principle of rotating the president by not changing the physical president, because it has changed so many parties that you have introduced a rotation. You've got a future president who won't apologize for wanting to repel us. You have a president who's shown the greatest hatred and wants to work with us. We ask only that – when will you do it? Instead, Mr. Chairman, you allow people here to act as prosecutors again, not to delay the huge support you have. I ask you to stop this, to talk or to talk about the candidate, about the agenda point, or to start acting like this, which will turn this congregation into what they want, and that's the Cossack Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u55	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u56	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 106th and 107th. Mr. Chairman, I appeal to both you and your young colleagues who help you in your work, that today, today's Assembly, abuse of violation of the Rules of Procedure, should not be used to bring nonsense. It is very explicitly explained that the candidate for the National Assembly said about the phenomenon of crime and corruption and that this seed, which it is, is the seed of evil, should be put to death. If colleagues or colleagues who have reported before support it, that we need a society full of crime and corruption, let it go. Besides, they've shown it through political action. From 2010 to 2013 we did not have a adopted Anti-Corruption Strategy. What did we show as a society? That we don't care about that fight. Here, now in Parliament we defend her, as a phenomenon, not personally. On the other hand, I ask you not to allow the assembly speaker to be used to bring nonsense, to provide unnecessary and incorrect employment data in the public sector, 30,000 people, and what about the other 750 thousand? Who hires these shrews, aunts, mistresses, godmothers and friends? Who hires these people who now don't have a public office or a chair to sit on, let alone go to the bathroom, they'll lose a desk and a chair? Whose responsibility is that? We're not talking about public enterprises today. We will also talk during the ministry law and in the future reform of the entire public sector, about all the anomalies in the public sector that have been immersed, piled up over the past 20 and a few years. We are ready to talk about this, we are ready for the reform of this public sector, but I will not weigh around the neck of someone who is far more responsible for such a failure of the public sector and public enterprises, as well as for the state in which they are now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u57	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u58	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating the violation of Article 104. It would be your turn to pay attention to that. The speaker before was very insulting about Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. I would really like you to warn him, because he was talking about her face's physiology and he treated a lady as offensive as Maja Gojkovic. He also said on several occasions, and I now advertise the violation of Article 107, insultingly, or in violation of the provisions regarding the dignity of the National Assembly, calling this assembly a goat. I'll just remind you, in their time at one point we had 300 MPs in parliament, we didn't even know who the MP who was elected or who wasn't. Remember 2003. I would really ask you to comment, because he least talked about advertising the Rules of Procedure, and he used his absolute advertising of the Rules of Procedure to replicate, which he had no right to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u59	I ask all MPs to return to the topic. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u60	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 106. Rules of Procedure. I was just about to ask you if we could level what's on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today, or if we have different convocations? In fact, we at NDS were counting on today to discuss the election of a new president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, the head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Djurisic, discussed. After that, we hardly heard a word about the election of the new speaker of the assembly, but were talking about topics that could possibly be the subject of some of the next sessions. Mr. Chairman, you are allowing the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to be humiliated because there are topics that are not on the agenda and spoken in a language that is not suitable for the National Assembly. So I ask you, Mr. Chairman, both you and the representatives of the ruling coalition, above all the representatives of the SNS, to help the chairman finish this agenda to be a man of full capacity and ability to manage the work of the National Assembly. In this way, you too contribute to the completion of this work and to the discussion of topics that are really not on the agenda and in which NDS does not want to participate, unless you force us, or if you do not confirm that there is something else on the agenda, rather than the election of the National Assembly president. Please, Mr. Chairman, turn this application into an order, because you have the right to do so, and to return to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u61	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, the New Party in the Serbian Parliament has two MPs. Zoran Zivkovic and I will vote against the proposal that Mrs. Maja Gojkovic be elected president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This attitude I would like to argue with two things, that is, for this thesis I have two, I think, very strong and good arguments and I would be glad that the majority of the congregation here also try to face these arguments, to have a serious debate. My first argument concerns the approach of the assembly majority to the election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the second argument is personal. It concerns the person who was proposed here. As far as the election of the National Assembly president is concerned, it is my judgment that the election of the National Assembly president of this assembly majority is not worthy of the role and importance that the Serbian Parliament has in Serbia's political system. It's enough to read article 99. The Serbian Constitution, which clearly states that this Assembly can adopt and amend the Constitution, decides on changing the borders of the Republic of Serbia, decides on war and peace, oversees the work of the security service, elects the government, oversees its work, decides on the termination of the mandate, elects and resolves judges, so as to conclude that this is a central political institution. It is my opinion that this congregation majority here in one unsuitable and unserious way has taken place in preparation for the organization of this session of the National Assembly. This unseriousness was initiated by defending an argument that we should choose a rotating president of the National Assembly here. I guess the idea was that here instead of this chair chair, we could have a little spin in the frame that some people are going to change every year. We believed in the New Party that such an idea was degraded for the Serbian Parliament, which is a central political institution and not only is it destructive for the Assembly, but our assessment was that such an idea could, if realised, also result in the destabilization of Serbia's political system as a whole. The second thing about access is this session today. For example, the two of us didn't even get a notice on who was running for president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we didn't get a biography. We came here this morning at 10:00, sat down and found out that we have a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We also find that it is part of this very bad approach to the Assembly. Just a little attention, please. This second argument, I think, which we use to vote against this candidate, is personal. I have always felt, and of course now, that for the president, or president of the Serbian Parliament, we should choose one model personality, one person who will have a very clear, visible, professional authority and personal integrity, one person whose personal authority will be able to deal with the authority that will give it or give him this institution the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I haven't had much time to get to know all the cartoons from Mrs. Gojkovic's biography, but I can put one of my visions of her work in two pictures. As a student, in 1998-1999, I fought against all the repressive mechanisms of the government of Milosevic, including Mrs Gojkovic. A dozen years later, within a campaign, to say here the white ballots, I fought against new authoritarianism and Boris Tadic. In the same period, the same person, Maja Gojkovic, defended these authoritarian features of new authoritarianism. Based on these two images, I cannot argue that the person proposed for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has such clear, obvious personal authority, which can bear the authority to give it an institution, so that I can vote for it today. I think that this assembly majority needs to think twice about all the arguments that come and on this side, to face these arguments, and to choose today as president, or president of the National Assembly, indeed, a person who deserves it by his own actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u63	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, being the head of the National Assembly, the highest home, the highest body of our country is always a special honor, a privilege, but also a great challenge. Of course, here, Parliament's president must always take special care of those challenges relating to the protection of the minority, whether it is a parliamentary minority or any other minority, a special attitude towards the opposition and must show the greatest tolerance, must make compromises, and must otherwise experience his position from the position of someone who is only a national MP and sees his position in a different way. I am confident that the candidate for National Assembly President, Mrs Maja Gojkovic, will faithfully and responsibly carry out this duty, will be given the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but will, of course, be extremely committed to those values of our society and those objectives and tasks that Serbia is pursuing today. These are, first of all, the reforms of our society. It is something that we must do and it is something that our parliament will have, which this assembly of parliament will have as its first and primary task. We need to reform the public sector, create conditions that people in this country can progress, that they can live better, that the private sector is completely different and that people in this country realize that we can't just hire people in public institutions, but we need to stimulate the economy. It is the economy that finances and pays the public sector and must be done to make those reforms feel like citizens in our society. Not to be the privilege of a number of people, but to be the privilege of the widest layers of our society. Parliament has a great task in this regard. Out of efficiency, the ability of the President of Parliament, but also of all others sitting in this Parliament, regardless of whether they belong to ruling or opposition parties, will depend on what pace we will go towards the EU, at which rate we will achieve the democratisation of our society, at which rate we will be able to say that we live better. This is probably the goal of each of us people's MPs and the goal of every citizen in Serbia to make people in this country live better, to make this country progress, to be more successful every day. The Serbian Progressive Party will certainly invest all its strengths. These people who are here today and who are going to fight, are tasked only to take care of this one great goal of Serbia moving faster, to fight for reforms, to fight the laws that we bring to the benefit of citizens, to fight for every time we discuss in this assembly we also take care of the dignity of the National Assembly, but also what our discussion means for the people who live in this country. I know that parliament was not always the most important institution in our society. It is also one of the tasks that the president of parliament must change. I am sure that Maja Gojkovic can do such a thing, knowing her, I know that she has enough power in her to try with every step and every subsequent assembly this parliament has more integrity, to have more control over the work of the executive authority and to contribute to its reputation and dignity for people to treat him like that. In future Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, I congratulate him on the courage and courage to accept such a difficult role on himself, but also very responsible. I want it to continue with the promotion and work of our highest legislative body, in terms of legislative activity, but of course our international activities and the convergence of the EU. Dear Maya, I wish you a lot of success and happiness in this work. Your success and success in the work of this parliament will be the success of all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u65	The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u66	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, the SNS in the March 16th parliamentary elections achieved a well-known result for all of us. So, the election list, led by Alexander Vukic, won 158 seats. This is not a reminder, but it's a story of mathematics, which confused me too, otherwise I'm part of Parliament, just confusing the citizens. After such an election result, citizens expect the positions, which are essential for the functioning of the state, to be taken over by someone from the SNS. When I say this, first of all, I mean taking responsibility, huge responsibilities, and in accordance with the enormous trust that the citizens have given us. The proposal, i.e. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's candidacy as SNS representative, to take office as president of the Serbian Parliament, is supported for several reasons. First of all, Serbia will get another approval of the changes today, another confirmation of future reforms, it will be given the post of chairman – Maja Gojkovic. So, a woman who had her political decisions, what had gone along with them, courageously and resolutely carried as a personal burden. The educated politically, indeed, is what we, her associates, colleagues and friends, have convinced ourselves, many personal manners, compassionate of the weak, but often the target of the strong. Perhaps not sufficiently understood in the political elections, but therefore very loud in the policy of change. She was the mayor of Novi Sad and during that period the mayor of all citizens of Novi Sad and, let's not forget, elected directly, by name and last name. The European optimist is also a great fighter for orderly and modern Serbia. A neo-Sadian, for those who do not know the roots of central Serbia. So the election of Maja Gojkovic as president of the Serbian Parliament is a strong message of my dear, in the affirmation of women in politics, but also confirms the development of parliamentary democracy and the spirit of tolerance that Maja Gojkovic will surely respect, cultivate and cherish in this House. Majo, here I join the congratulations that Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic has given you, I wish you every good in future work, I want you not to be abandoned by the energy you have, that you are not let down by the principles you stick to and that you really are someone who will be a worthy Parliament to lead, and to represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u67	I give my word to MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u68	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have had the happiness or the misfortune of being taken to be a member of Parliament here or there and to have more presidents and more presidents. Some of those presidents I remember for good, correct, and honest people, some of them I forgot, and some of them I try to forget. However, the more I seem to try to forget them, the less I do. It's amazing how before a man forgets what he doesn't want, and it's harder for him to forget what he wants. I want to forget those presidents who, as they came to this place and sat down, forgot where they came from, started to feel like the government and to be part of the government, to be a shield between the Parliament and the Government and thus to make sure the government does what it wants. I want to forget just the ones who adjudicated that role of the National Assembly in the control of the government and finally followed those laws that it itself passed. But there were extremely high - quality people, who, by their tolerance, knew how to create an ambience and to strengthen the reputation of the congregation. Sadly, the congregation came in a position to lose that reputation because it did not know to impose itself and did not know to show its role in society, and the government could, especially in some past time, do what it wanted. Without that control, it happened that the government was disintegrating, selling and eventually destroying this country. Every once in a while he's looking for people for that someone's duration. This is a difficult time, difficult. This is a crisis time, this is a time when hatred and negative energy dominates a normal threat to violence. That is why I think that in this House for the President and people should come and just come the woman who was proposed, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, who, with her calmness, will be able to make an ambience for the citizens to see. I expect Maja Gojkovic to enter into this assembly that of our duchy tolerance, abstention, and sometimes excessive modesty. I expect this urban charm, and the people's breadth, to contribute here to tolerance, conflict of opinion, mutual respect, to be the dominant traits of this House. I don't think this parliament should be like in England and its control role will be by the ministers working in the morning, and by night and night to account for the parliament. That's not gonna happen. We're still a long way from that, but I want this particular majority here to be absolute with its knowledge, skill and democracy that it can stand up to some decisions that go contrary to the state's interests. I expect Maya to be able to do that and to know that she is articulating such opinions. I wish her the best, and I think she'll be one of the good presidents of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u69	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, in a text he wrote in the emigration, Slobodan Jovanovic sees an interesting phenomenon in the Serbian people, which is that when the Serbian people and when Serbia loves someone, he recognizes them by name. It is not necessary to specify a last name next to a name, it is not necessary to specify a function, it is not necessary to specify a biography. Just say his name. Paraphrasing Slobodan Jovanovic, I can freely say that in today's Serbia, the political scene of the Republic of Serbia is sufficient to pronounce Maja, so that the whole of Serbia knows that it is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. By MPs racing here and running a dead race that is a larger opposition, whether DS, whether NDS, whether those who went to the elections with the Democratic Party and became independent MPs overnight, insist we heard nothing about Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's biography. Some even went so far as to say that the biography was not even received, which is a notorious lie because all MPs received the biography of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic in the material and received her statement that she accepted the candidacy for the president of the National Assembly. Maybe I'm a little subjective when it comes to Maya because I've known her for a long time. What I can say is that it comes from a respected new family. A good part of the people doesn't have a positive opinion of lawyers, but when a lawyer wins as mayor of such a big city as Novi Sad, it means that people trust him. Then this means that it is a person who will be safe, responsible and fair to the people of Serbia in the same way that she was safe, honest and responsible in working with her clients. Maja Gojkovic is someone with a huge political experience. I've heard a lot of hard words here at her expense about who changed some political party, who did what in the past. If we were to go back in time, I think that historic scale would weigh in favor of the SNS. I agree that it was ugly to throw at the president, or the chairman of the National Assembly with a shoe and water him, but I also think that it was much uglier, socially more dangerous, by country and nation to burn down the National Assembly, to take chairs, artistic pictures, all that the current opposition did on October 5th 2000, to hack with machines into public enterprises, to form crisis headquarters. To remind you that they threatened the children of their political opponents to cut them bald to mark them and cut them. So, if we were to go back in time, I don't think a very nice picture of today's opposition would go public. I don't want to talk about them. Serbian citizens said everything about them on March 16th. (President: Please stick to the topic. )......................................................................................................... I hold on, Chairman, topics much more than my predecessors did, but thank you for this suggestion. The election of Maja Gojkovic as president of the National Assembly, which will, of course, be supported by the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, is important for at least two reasons. First, by choosing Mrs Gojkovic, we affirm the role of the woman, not only in the Serbian parliament but in the Serbian political life at all. We thus motivate all of the more gentle sexes to engage more actively in political life and to contribute in their specific female way to making Serbia much more normal, much more decent, much more orderly countries than it has been in the past few decades and, ultimately, today. On the other hand, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's choice as National Assembly President, I think it is also important as an expression of one great thank-you to all our mothers, wives, sisters, in general, the institution of a woman in a Serbian society who today carries a great burden of preserving the family, raising her children properly, while at the same time someone who has suffered a lot in the past, but also in a very active way, contributed to Serbia's success and glory. I don't think there's any need to remind you how bright the cheek of the Serbian army in World War I in the year when we mark the anniversary of that great war in which Serbia was on the side of the victory force, in which Serbia was on the side of those who defeated those who wanted to enslave all mankind. Being president of the National Assembly is a great honor, but also a great responsibility. Practically after the post of President of the Republic to be President of the National Assembly is the most important place in the country. In order for you to be a successful president of the National Assembly, you have to have a huge political experience, you have to possess enormous expertise, which Maya as an excellent lawyer and lawyer has. You must have a special sensitivity when it comes to dealing with MPs. I want to remind myself, I don't want to mention names, and I don't want to talk ugly about anyone, we've had a phenomenon here that some of the National Assembly chairmans voluntarily interpreted the Rules of Procedure, so they said -- some of the provisions can't be advertised, some of them can't, so you've had the appearance that the MP was taken away after three seconds of his speech, so you've had the appearance that the MPs who were in opposition at that time were severely fined, that even the MPs who were not even punished at the time of the punishment were not even in the National Assembly Hall. So there was a lot of ugly in the previous period. Knowing Maya, I am convinced that such phenomena in the Serbian parliament will not be and that the election of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, acting as National Assembly president, will indeed be of pride and pride not only to those of us who have proposed her, not only us from the SNS and the MP groups who supported our proposal, but that the election of Maja Gojkovic will be proud and dim of the entire Serbian parliament, the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens and, of course, I would join the wishes of my colleagues to work successfully in the coming period, to work in quality, to work securely and to work in the interests of the National Assembly as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u71	I would like to inform MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavjevic that the professional service has delivered DS materials. Does Zoran Zivkovic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u72	Thank you, Chairman. That doesn't justify a previous speaker saying something - a notorious lie. I think it's a good quote. I think it's against the 107th of this Rules of Procedure, and you've made a mistake not to warn him about it as planned 109. Let's know if it's the job of the MP to search for the materials and then ask for it there or here. All the MPs present here have their addresses, e-mail addresses, phones, in a hundred ways it was possible to deliver the materials before this session. Neither Mr. Pavicevic nor I received these materials and it was my intervention. I wasn't talking about candidate biography, positive or negative. I just realized that we didn't get it and it doesn't deserve a reaction called a notorous lie. If we're going to adopt that way of communication, we can do that. I don't think that's my wish, and I think an apology would be enough to continue with a normal parliamentary tone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u73	I give my word to Parliamentarian Maria Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u74	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very pleased to speak today about the candidate, or candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, this is not the first time that a woman is a candidate at this high office in RS, and I hope, I am confident, and most colleagues will share with me hope, that that good tradition of serious leadership will continue in the National Assembly when previous colleagues were in that place regardless of which parties they come from. What is recorded in numerous surveys in the Republic of Serbia is when you entrust a certain job to a woman, especially at such high functions it is completed without any problems with maximum commitment and responsibility. Very rare abuses. The degree of corruption, taking bribes is minimal when it comes to women. These are some of the specifics that we can absolutely take into account when we talk about women's positions in Serbia. What we can see in the discussions so far that seem to have been longer and more complicated than they should have been when the candidate's proposal is so clear, is that many refer to Mrs Gojkovic as being from Maja, which is enough to say that this is a person who is extremely well known and professional and political and who has authority, political integrity. Some have tried to play with these terms. When Serbia's citizens are told something from this pay phone then somehow they believe it's true, so many of the lies we've heard in previous exhibitions, especially from opposition MPs, citizens may think it's true. I wouldn't agree with that. When you propose to a certain candidate, you consider his personal, professional, political and political qualities and characteristics. About Mrs. Gojkovic when we talk about personal qualities, I'll say something from my personal experience. Of course, the different impressions of people in Serbia are different. The largest number of people I work with would agree, and this is confirmed by a biography that has been properly delivered to all parliamentary clubs and MPs in the Serbian Parliament. The only thing is if someone checked whether it came or not to know where his office was or where his mail was being postponed. An extremely educated, responsible, dedicated, shrewd person, above all tolerated. It is tolerant because, for so long, you stay on the political scene of Serbia in such a difficult time, when you are a woman, and I would say what is important for Serbia, when you are a woman who does not always have a back, conditionally said, but goes forward on her own, you need to be extremely sharp and resourceful and far-sighted, politically. The way I think about it today, I'll have that position tomorrow, conditionally speaking, in politics. Perhaps from that point of view we should consider selecting a future candidate for the president of the Serbian Parliament. I think that Mrs Gojkovic, taking office as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will give a new quality to the Serbian Parliament, a new quality in the speed and efficiency of law making, not too quickly, as long as that speed does not affect the quality of the laws passed, but in any case, I think that the woman who knows how to run the assembly, who knows what is necessary for the good, quality work of MPs, what is necessary for minorities to first have their positions, their place of work, to be respected enough, to have their voice heard. What is important to me, of course, is not a priority in Serbia, but as the first co-ordinator of the Women's Parliamentary Network in Serbia, I want to say that it is extremely important, it is also supported by colleagues in their discussions, which is also this time a female candidate in such a high position and she will change the way it works and functions in Serbia. The Assembly’s reputation in the preceding period has been greatly raised. The previous president, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, has significantly improved the work, above all in substantive political work, in a high degree of tolerance, opening the Assembly to the public, towards civil society, towards international organisations, the degree of parliamentary diplomacy, or co-operation, has been raised to an exceptional level. All of these are just certain degrees from which we will move on. When I say - we'll start, and I'm talking about Mrs Gojkovic's candidacy, I want to remind you that this is the position of one person, but don't forget that Serbia is in such a difficult time, that we are only together, as a team can do something. And this time, it is necessary, as much as Mrs Gojkovic is both educated and visprene and with good political positions and exceptional experience, to be a good team, to offer her hand and say – you can count on me, us SNS colleagues, as a really right hand in every area of work, as the future president of the Serbian Parliament, and on other colleagues from other parties as constructive associates with extremely good suggestions for improving Parliament's work, with good laws, but not maliciously. Serbia is in such a difficult time that there is now no room for malicious comments, moves, proposals. Let's be a good team and at least the Assembly, as an important institution in Serbia, will be the bearer of these changes. I know that women, colleagues, MPs, will make a significant contribution, as it was in the previous period. I also want to say that this is an extremely good composition in the education structure of special MPs. Those who didn't check it out can do it on Parliament's website. So let's put our education first, our humanity, our decency, our determination to put first, in Serbia's service, and I think it'll be a lot easier for us then. We forgot to be polite, and that's what we need right now. Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u75	I give my word to the MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u76	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today when we elect the President of the Assembly, I can't help but remember that two years ago we were in this same place doing the same job. And then there was a lot of criticism, a lot of hard words on our proposal to elect Nebojsa Stefanovic as president. Because, just like then, because I didn't particularly praise Nebojsa Stefanovic, I'm not going to praise Maja Gojkovic today, because I want to see the results of her work. But I am proud to say, and I believe that everyone or most of them share that opinion, that Nebojsa Stefanovic has done his job in a dignified and cultural way and that he will be remembered as a good president of the Assembly and I congratulate him on that. We've all been faced with the proposal of this rotating president of the Assembly these days. I see a lot of people coming at me today. To be honest, I wasn't up for the proposal either because I remember a rotating presidency that contributed a lot to the SFRY so that the country would fall apart. But it was only one attempt to enable the opposition to participate more actively in the leadership and presidency in this assembly. Even though I said I would not praise Maja Gojkovic in advance, I must express my admiration for her courage to engage in such a difficult and uncertain job. We are all aware of the success that the SNS had in these elections, but that success brings one great commitment. There are difficult times ahead, there are painful structural reforms ahead, there is a period in which we have to make important decisions and difficult decisions. Maja Gojkovic, as one of us here, will be able to participate more actively in making those decisions. That is why it will also be hit by both the media and the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens did not give the SNS trust because we are beautiful, handsome, smart. No, they expect the SNS to show them the way to that tape of light that everyone promises. I understand the opposition's wish, it is their right to criticise our proposal, but they must also understand that our proposal came from getting the huge trust of Serbian citizens and this trust gives us the right to propose who we think will be the best in the job. The opposition's criticism, in my opinion, is well-intentioned, and it is intended to select as many candidates as possible. In the future, we'll be able to agree on a lot of things and disagree. I'm against talking about who the government has made some mistakes, what she's done and what she hasn't done. Everything we haven't done or done wrong will be brought to the public court by a court of voters who will decide how we will be trusted. Some will be tried by other authorities, but on the road on which this Assembly will be led by Maja Gojkovic, we all face a lot of challenges and we must all work together, and positions and opposition, to make these decisions in the interests of the Serbian citizens. The opposition will try to correct what the position suggests with its proposals and amendments. So don't hesitate, we are tasked with helping each other and the President of the Assembly and the Government, that Serbia at least lives a little better in the future. Mayo, I hope that your work in the Assembly will be successful and that after four years we will choose a new president, that I will have the honor and pleasure to commend you as I am now. Good luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u77	I give my word to Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as someone who has been an MP for 15 years, I will speak again and again in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from a certain angle and experience that I have about what Parliament should look like and how it should be run. With the election of Maja Gojkovic, I am convinced that this composition of parliament and all of us here together, because it is only the first among the equals, I am convinced that this assembly of parliament will actually give the best results and that it will be the most effective in its work and that this work will be the most fruitful for our citizens and the state, at least for these last 15 years, and if not for a longer period. To talk a lot about Maja Gojkovic, and my previous colleagues were saying, I don't think there's any need. They're gonna do some basic things again. She's an experienced politician. She has repeatedly been a republican and federal MP and knows how parliament should be led. She won the local elections in our second city in size and was mayor of the city for four years. Many people in this city today call it our Maya, which is hard to hear about politicians speaking and speaking to someone like that. I am convinced that our colleague Maja Gojkovic will do this job well and lead Parliament well and that we will have a peaceful but fruitful work, which is now necessary for Serbia. The economy has been destroyed in Serbia. We need re-industrialization. We need new investments. It takes as many, especially young educated people, as well as all other young people to work, and we will be able to do so only, not by the government's work, as some like to present, but by working together with the government and parliament, because the government can't do anything without parliament. It's something that's fundamental to democracy. Fellow Socialists often talk about democracy a little... But these are some earlier times, and now they're slowly coming towards it. They will listen to others when they speak more and more. On the other hand, I have one more thing to say, the development of agriculture is needed. That's why I'm sorry there are so few people in parliament who deal with agriculture. I thought there were two or three of them, as far as I've seen, but I was convinced by Mr. Risticevic that there were others. Development of agriculture and infrastructure building. In order for the government to do all this, we need good laws. To pass these laws, we need work in parliament and a stable situation in parliament. Do we want to go through the EU? We have to finish the corridors, for example. I don't know if some of them know that EU standards are not only built highways, but also built underpasses and overpasses for crossing and passing savages across the same highway. How far away we are from the EU when we don't think about these things and we don't talk about them, and that's something we need and how we need it. It is the job of the MPs to remind the government of this, to launch such initiatives and to do all of this together. We will be able to do so if we have a tolerated and peaceful atmosphere in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I am convinced that this will happen as long as Mrs. Maja Gojkovic holds the presidency. Thank God that the SNS with its coalition partners has achieved such a convincing victory in the elections, so we, of course, will, with our own responsibility and commitment, help her in this work, and hopefully the opposition, to be effective and to be in four years after this Parliament's work, and I always say parliament, less government than parliament, we are much closer, if not at the gate of entry, at the door of entry into the EU, because this is the most important thing at this moment for the citizens of Serbia. We, as MPs, do not have a more important task, but rather, by our work and by our efforts, by passing good laws, by adopting an efficient and fast number of laws that bring us closer to the EU, by changing our society, where the judiciary will do its job, by changing the education system, and by, of course, by getting more people to the point that one day, very quickly, already at the end of this Parliament's term, we may be close to entering the EU, or by somewhere in 2019 or 2020, we are already a full member. We will only be able to do this with daily good work here, effective work here, and I am convinced that, with the good Presidency of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. So, all of us in the SNS support this choice, with the hope that, in good co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at the end of this term, we will have a much different picture and a much different Serbia, of course, for the better, than we have become used to, that we enter into some more difficult and difficult situations from the mandate. I am convinced that at the end of this term, we will all live in a better Serbia and that our citizens will be pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u79	I give my word to MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u80	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, or I'm the first time in my life a MP of the people, and it's really an honor here. It's an honor to work here at a congregation restaurant, it's an honor to work in the Stenographers' Service, it's an honor to be an MP, not to talk about sitting in that chair where he sits first amongst the equal, where the President of Parliament is. I am also one of those who express regret that the current speaker of parliament will leave the post, but I also express the satisfaction that Mrs Gojkovic will come to the post. Why? For many years, the Serbian parliament has been portrayed in public as the worst in this country. The MPs were shown in the worst possible way, and the public spoke of them all the ugliest. Despite this, Nebojsa Stefanovic has indeed managed to give this parliament a sense of decency and to create a picture of him in public, and this research results show that the percentage of citizens' trust in parliament has increased, and has shown that this can indeed be a very honorable, very decent and good body, in which citizens can have a lot of confidence. Therefore, because of this result, without talking about the savings he has made in this House as president of the Assembly and the diplomatic activity he has had here, I regret that he may not be here anymore, but I believe in Mrs Gojkovic because he is a respected lawyer and has a long-standing practice in parliament. I remember, while this was the parliament of the common state, what replicas she had in her day, especially with Montenegrin MPs. It was a pleasure to listen to her, especially in a professional way as she explained absolutely every law and how she reflected always in this political dialogue. I'm sorry that the opposition MPs here at this point probably have a little bit more to do. Few are really on this other side, uninterested. But what Nebojsa Stefanovic has managed to show, it is that MPs can always be in parliament. You can have a look at the O.R. now. The MPs of power are in the congregation, full of benches, and on the other hand, what the people would say is, the blow of prominence. Why? That's how it used to be when someone else here had a majority. At that time, the government really had empty benches, and there was a huge public mistrust in the congregation itself. Maji Gojkovic, as someone who is likely to be a motivator, first of all to deal with politics, and I can say that in the SNS we have truly extraordinary women and the most responsible functions, from the governors of the National Bank to, behold, now the President of Parliament and the Secretary of the Assembly, we really have great women and I believe that they, especially Mrs Gojkovic, will be from that place, because we have two very strong male figures, Mr Nikolic and Mr. Vukic, someone as the third controller of all that is Maja Gojkovic, and I believe that they will be a real motivator to get women involved and I wish her all the happiness of this world. Of course I'll vote with my whole heart for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u81	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? I'm finishing the search on a proposal for a candidate for National Assembly President. Consent of the power specified in Article 9(5). I am laying down a list of candidates for the president of the National Assembly with only one candidate, Maja Gojkovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search and is in agreement with Article 9(5). Rules of Procedure of a designated list of candidates for the President of the National Assembly, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 10(1) of the Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure before joining the election of the National Assembly president, the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote in public, it shall be voted by the call of the MPs to Article 10(2). Rules of Procedure. I propose that the election of the president of the National Assembly be announced by a public vote, by calling the MPs. I would like to put the motion to vote so that the election of the president of the National Assembly is made by a public vote, by calling the MPs. I ask the MPs to press the corresponding key on the business unit for 15 seconds. I'm asking the MPs to check again if they've all voted. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that 176 MPs, against five, were not abstentions, did not vote 26 of the 207 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly decided by majority vote that the election of the president of the National Assembly should take place by a public vote - by calling the MPs. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of the National Assembly president should take place by a public vote, we should hold the vote by calling the MPs. Before we go to the roll call, I remind you it's article 131. The Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure shall be convened by the Members of the People's Parliament in the alphabetical order of the last name; each appointed MP shall pronounce the word "yes", "no", "no" or "abstained"; the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall write down a statement of the MP or his absence with his name and last name on the list. Before we go to the vote, I remind you that according to Article 104, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established that the National Assembly is elected by the majority of the votes of all MPs by the National Assembly president, which means that a MP has been elected to the National Assembly, who received most of the votes of all MPs. I would like to put the motion on vote to elect National Assembly Speaker Maja Gojkovic. We approach the vote by calling the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u82	Alexic Dragan – for Alexic Irena – for Anastasov Adriana – for Andrejevic Dejan – for Andrić Mirjana – for Antić Aleksandar – Antić Zoran – for Arsenović Konstantin – absent Arsić Veroljub – for Atlagić Prof. Dr. Marko – for Babić Zoran – for Bajatović Dušan – for Barišić Dr. Dragan – for Batić Olgica – for Bauer Dr. Ivan – for Bačevac Dr. Muamer – for Berić Nebojša – for Besarović Prof. Dr. Vesna – for Bečić Igor – for Birmančević Boban – for Bićan Milena – for Blažić Branislav – for Bogotinović Žarko – for Bogdanović Goran – maintained Bogosavljević – Bošković Prof. Dr. Snezjana – for Božović Balša – absent Bojanić Branka – for Bradić Blaž - for Bradić Blaž - for Brežje - for Bož - [[unheard]] Varga Laslo – for Vasiljević Bratimir – for Veljković Jelisaveta – for Vesenović Janko – abstention Vicek Anamarija – for Vlahović Sonja – for Vujić Vojislav – for Vujović Irena – for Vukić Vanja – for Vukmirica Svetislav – for Vukmanović Dr Dijana – for Vulin Aleksandar – for Vučetić Dr Jezimir – for Vučković Nataš – for Gvozdenović Dr Slobodan – for Girić Ninoslav – for Gojković Žika – for Gojković Maja – for Dazdarevic Sabina - [[unheard]] Dačić Ivica – for Dimitrov Vladica – for Dinić Ivana – for Dragojevic Srdjan - absent Drecun Milovan – for Djeric Zlata – for Djilas Dragan – against Djokovic Mirjana - for Djukanovic Vladimir – for Djukić-Dejanović Prof. Dr Slavica – for Djurica Milan – for Đurišić Zivan – for Djurisić Marko - [[unheard]] Đurović Aleksandra – for Đurović Dr Branko – for Zivkovic Zoran – against Zivkovic Milinko - for Zindović Dragoljub – [[unheard]] Zindović Miljana – for Ziric Bojan – for Zorić Dr Gordana – for Ilic - Stošić Biljana – for Imamović Enis – for Isailović Dr Obrad – [[unheard]] Jablanović Aleksandar – for Jarić Drazen – for Jevdić Marija – for Jevtic Jovica – for Jevtović – Vukojčić Milanka – for Jovanovic Dragan – for Jovanovic Jovanovic – against Jović Dr Radoslav – for Jovičić Aleksandar – absent Jozić Zoran – for Joksimović Jadranka – for Jolović Nikola – for Južović Aleksandar – for Kamberi Shaip – [[unheard]] Karavidić Branka – abstentioned Karić Dragomir – for Karić Ivan – absent Karić Milanka – for Knezevic Goran – for Knezevic Milan – for Kovac Elvir – for Kovačević Borisav – for Kovacevic Goran – [[unheard]] Kovačević Dejan – for Kovačević Milan – for Korać Milan – for Kosanić Mr Djordje – for Kosorić Ljiljana – for Kostić Vladeta – [[unheard]] Kostić Radmilo – for Kostreš Bojan – [[unheard]] Krkobić Milan – [[unheard]] Krlić Mirko – for Kružević Srdjan – for Lazić Nada, [[unheard]] Lakatoš Ljibuška – for Laketić Dr Darko – for Latković Dr Milan – for Linta Miodrag – for Lukić Mladen – for Lutovac Violeta – for Ljubičić Jana – for Maksimović Saša – [[unheard]] Maksimović Siniša – for Maletić Aleksandra – for Malović Snezana – maintained Malušić Ljiljana – for Maraš Marjana – for Marinkovic Prof. Dr. Vladimir – for Marjanović Vesna – against Marjanović Mirjana – for Markić Miroslav – for Marković Aleksandar – for Marković Dragan – for Miladović Stefan – for Miladinović Zoran – for Miletić Miletić Milija – for Milić Đorđe – for Milojevic Milosav – for Milović Nenad – for Milošević Nevena – for Miljević Nevena – for Mirković Saša – for Mitrović – for Mitrović Milić Đar – for Milić Milović Milović Milosav – for Milosević Nena – for Milošević – for Milošević Neven – for Miloš – for Mirković Saš – for Mirković Saš – for Mitrić Nević Neš – for Mitrović – for Mitrović Milko Dragko Drag – for Milko – for Milko Dragko Dragko – for Milko – for Milko Milko Milko Milko Dragko Dragko Drago – for Milko – for Milko Dragož [[unheard]] Mihajlović Miletić – for Mrdaković-Todorović Dr Ljubica – for Mrkonjic Milutin – for Muković Mujo – for Nestorović Ljiljana – for Nikolic Dejan – against Nikolic Dragan – for Nikolic Dušić – for Nikolic Miljan – for Nikolic Miodrag – for Nikolic Nenad – for Nikolic Radomir – for Nikolic Sanja – [[unheard]] Nikoić-Tanasijević Nadica – for Novaković Milan – for Obradović Prof. Dr. Zarko – for Obradović Jasmina – for Obradović Marija – for Omerović Meso – for Orlic Dr. Vladimir – [[unheard]] Pavićevic Vladimir – v Pajović Dr Aleksandar – for Pantić Pilja Biljana – for Papug Olena – [[unheard]] Pastor Balint – for Puljenjkić Oliver – for Paunović Vera – [[unheard]] Paunović Dragan – for Pek Zoltan – for Peranovic Dr Aleksandar – for Perić Slobodan – for Petkovic Vladimir – for Petric Milan – [[unheard]] Petrović Dušan – [[unheard]] Petrović Mira – [[unheard]] Petrović Prof. Dr. Nebojsa – for Petrović Petar – for Petronijevic Milisav – for Pešić Oliver – for Pošurica Mileta – for Pralic Zoran- for Radčević Dalibor – for Radojevic Dr. Aleksandar – for Rakić Katarina – for Rakić Miodrag – [[unheard]] Rakonjac Dr Vesna – for Rističević Marjan – for Ružić Branko – for Savović Biljana – for Senić Aleksandar – abstentioned Spasojevic Suzana – for Stanković Miroljub – for Stanojevic Velimir – for Stevanović Marija – for Stevanović Milan – for Stevanovic Zvonimir – for Stefanović Borislav – against Stefanović Dr Nebojsa – for Stojadinović Ninoslav – [[unheard]] Stojanović Momir – for Stojanović Neven – for Stojiljković Ivan – for Stojković Velibor – for Stojković Dušica – [[unheard]] Stojmirović Ljubisa – for Stojsic Djordje – [[unheard]] Stošić Milorad – for Stupar Dušan – for Susec Željko – for Tatomir Nebojša – for Tomašević Damnjanović Tanja – for Tomić Dr Aleksandra – for Tončev Dr Novac – for Tosanić Miloš – for Tosić Velinka – for Tosić Vučeta – for Turk Milena – for Ćirić Goran – against Ćorić Milena – for Ćorović Aida – against Ugljanin Dr Sulejman – [[unheard]] The widower Vanja – for Filipovski Dubravka – for Fremond Arpad – for Halimi Riza – [[unheard]] Hasanovic-Korać Biljana – abstentioned Cvetanović Milorad – for Canak Nenad – against Chikiriz Mirko – [[unheard]] Colaković Momo – [[unheard]] Komić Gordana, [[unheard]] (Satan) Alexander (Satan) (Satan (Satan))). [[unheard]] Šarac Suzana – for Škundric prof. dr Petar – for Šormaz Dragan – for Šutanovac Dragan – against Šushnar Katarina – for Antić Aleksandar – for Grujic Mladen – for. [[unheard]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u83	Since we have held a vote to elect the president of the National Assembly by calling, I am finalising the vote and we are approaching the outcome of the vote. Since this will be announced in a few minutes, I pray that the MPs do not depart from the congregation. After the break. Allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 215 MPs who joined the vote, 194 MPs voted for the candidate for National Assembly President Maju Gojkovic against - 14 MPs, abstentioned - nine MPs, absent - 29 MPs. Dear People's MPs, based on your vote, I find that candidate Maja Gojkovic received most of the votes of her all MPs and that the National Assembly for National Assembly President has elected Maja Gojkovic. Allow me to congratulate Maja Gojkovic on your behalf and on my behalf in the election of President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and wish her much success in her work. I ask the President of the National Assembly to take over the chair of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, I want to thank you for the great support you've given me today with your vote. I would also like to thank all the colleagues who participated today in the debate on the person of the President of Parliament and on the tasks that are expected to be done by me now, leading this great and historicly significant building. It's an extraordinary honor, and it's not a flossula, to say that it's a great privilege to be the first or first among the equals, but I'm telling you that it's indeed a great responsibility, a responsibility that I would like to share with all of you today. I listened carefully to every discussion today. I paid the most attention to what my fellow MPs, who did not vote for my election this time, said. I listened very carefully, although it may sound strange, and the silence of some MPs, because after years of political practice I can interpret the meaning of both silence or dissent at all. When we remind ourselves of what all the presidents in this House had said before me, we will agree that our goals were mostly the same, but I am grateful especially, and you will not be angry that I will single out two MPs or one MPs and MPs, Ms. former Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukić Dejanovic and now former President, Nebojsa Stefanovic, for giving me both their discussions and their vote a great support to continue to meet the three most important goals that you have all mentioned, regardless of whether it was a parliamentary group from the ruling majority or from the opposition, and these are the further development of democracy in this Parliament and Serbia and with the help of this spirit of tolerance, which is the most important and what may be left unspellable, which I will promise to all of you, that I will indeed insist that all MPs here be equal in their rights, but also in their responsibilities and obligations to this House, regardless of the government, whether the majority of the Members are either. Thank you again for this great support. I hope you share my opinion that the image of this House cannot only be created by one man. The image of this House is created by all of you who will work together in this assembly with me. I'd like to announce now an hour's break to meet our business obligations and move on to the vice president vote. We need 30 minutes to take that break. We'll start at 14.05 p.m. I ask the MPs to take their seats and allow the session to continue. [[after breaks]] Before we move on to the election of vice presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that he is a member of 14. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are prescribed that the National Assembly determines the number of vice presidents, on the proposal of the National Assembly president. I propose that the National Assembly determine that there are six vice-presidents in this meeting. This proposal will be made known before we move to the vote on the proposed candidates. I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 15. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received a proposal for six candidates for vice presidents of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a proposal from the vice presidents of the National Assembly. As you have seen, National Assembly Vice-Presidents are proposed MPs: Veroljub Arsic, selected from the electoral list ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ – FUTURE IN THE FUTURE (Serbian Progressive Party, Social Democratic Party of Serbia, New Serbia, Serbian Movement of Reconstruction and Movement of Socialists); Mr Igor Bečić, elected from the electoral list ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ – FUTURE OF THE SOCIAL PARTY (Serbian Progressive Party of Serbia, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Nova Serbia, the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction and the Movement of Socialists); Konstarst Arsenović, elected from the election list of IVICA DACić – the Socialist Party of Serbia, the United States of Serbia, Serbia; Gordana Čomić, elected from the elections of the elections of the elections of the elections of the elections of the elections of the elections "SA DEMOKRATIC Party of the Republic of Serbia", the Republic of Serbia – Mr. Since, according to Article 16(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the representative of the motion, have the right to explain the proposal, ask if the proposing representative wishes to explain the proposal of the candidate for vice-presidents of the National Assembly? (No) I would like to remind you that the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours. I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: MP group Serbian Progressive Party – two hours, 43 minutes and 12 seconds; Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group – 30 minutes; Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party – 22 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Socialist Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia – 12 minutes; Parliamentary Group of the Unity Serbia – 8 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group of New Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group of the Military Hungarians – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group of the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction, the Democratic Party of Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; MP Group of the League of Social Democrats – 7 minutes and 7 minutes of the SDA – 7 minutes of the SPA – 7 minutes of the SDA. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine a maximum of three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak once, up to five minutes each. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'm opening an investigation into the proposal for a candidate for vice president of the National Assembly. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) I would like to inform you that a list of speakers for the debate I have opened has not been submitted. I'm finishing the search. As I announced, before we move on to the election of vice presidents of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to establish the number of vice presidents of the National Assembly in this assembly. The president's proposal was six vice presidents. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 190, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted seven of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there are six vice presidents in this meeting. Allow me, according to Article 16(5). The Rules of Procedure, in the alphabetical order of the last name, determine the list of candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, in the alphabetical order of the last name. According to the proposals submitted, I am setting out the following list of candidates for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: 1. Konstantin Arsenović 2. Veroljub Arsic 3rd m Igor Bečić 4th Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic 5. Ninoslav Stojadinović 6. Gordana Komic. I remind you, according to Article 17(1). The Rules of Procedure, before joining the election of the Vice-Presidents, shall the National Assembly, on a proposal from the President, decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it is voted by the call of MPs. I propose that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be made by a public vote. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 196, no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is done by public vote. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly should take place by public vote, in this case Article 17(2). Rules of Procedure are prescribed that if the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by reference. In accordance with the provisions of Article 17(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The rules of procedure can be voted on as many candidates as the election of vice presidents and that is between candidates whose names are listed on the candidate list. Before we go to the roll call vote, I remind you it's article 131. The Rules of Procedure set out the procedure for the implementation of the public vote by a call and, according to that provision: the Secretary-General, i.e. the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly, shall call on the MPs by the order of the alphabet, the MPs who approach the vote pronounce the full name and name of the candidates for which they vote, the President shall repeat the name and the name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determine that he is absent or does not wish to vote, the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall write down a statement of the MP or his absence with his name and last name on the list. I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 104(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, elects the vice-presidents of the National Assembly to vote mostly on all MPs. With that in mind, I would like to put the motion to be elected vice president of the National Assembly: 1. Konstantin Arsenović 2. Veroljub Arsic 3rd m Igor Bečić 4th Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic 5. Ninoslav Stojadinović 6. Gordana Komic. The vote is collectively, as I understand it, the heads of the parliamentary groups have declared that they vote for all six vice presidents at once. I ask the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs, in the alphabetical order of the last name, and record their statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u86	We approach the vote by calling the MPs. Alexić Dragan - for Alekić Irena – for Anastasov Adriana - for Andrejević Dejan – for Andrić Mirjana – for Antić Aleksandar – for Antic Zoran – for Arsenović Konstantin – absent Arsić Veroljub – for Atlagić Prof. Dr Marko – for Babić Zoran – for Bijatović Dusan – for Barišić Dr Dragan – for Bašić Olgica – for Bičan Milen – for Bajić Dr. Mužislav – for Beroštinović Žarjan – for Besarović – for Bešić Igor – for Birmančević Bob – for Bišan Milen Milen – for Bijekjan Žažažić Branžiž – for Bogotinović – for Bogosavljević – Bošković Prof. – for Božan – for Bož – for Božić Balša – for Bož – for Bož – for Božić Žalić Žalić Žalić Žalić Žalić Žalić – Žalić Žalić – Žalić – Žalić. Knežević Goran – for
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u88	Since we have held a vote to elect the vice-president of the National Assembly by calling, I am concluding the vote and we are approaching the outcome of the vote. Please stay in the O.R. We need about a minute to two. Not anymore. Since we have determined the results of the vote to elect the vice-president of the National Assembly, allow me to announce the results of the vote. The proposed candidates were voted by 213 MPs, against one, and there were two abstentions. Since candidates Konstantin Arsenovic, Veroljub Arsic, Mr Igor Bečić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Gordana Comic received most of the votes of all the MPs, I find that they were elected vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate the vice-presidents of the National Assembly in their election on your behalf and on my behalf and ask them to take their seats next to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Congratulations again to the vice presidents of parliament. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – NAME OF THE GENERAL SECRETARY OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY You have received a proposal from the President of the National Assembly to be named Jana Ljubicic as Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Parliamentary Progressive Party Group – two hours, 43 minutes and 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group – 30 minutes; the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group – 20 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Socialist Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia – 12 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia – 8 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of New Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Vojvodjan Hungarians – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction, the Democratic Party of Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the SDA Group of the S. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak once, up to five minutes each. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs who wish to participate in the debate. I am opening a hearing on the motion for candidates for the appointment of Secretary General of the National Assembly. Since no parliamentary group has proposed, or provided us with the names of MPs who would participate in the debate, I conclude the search. Before moving to the vote, I remind you that, according to Article 21(3), Article 3. The Rules of Procedure, Secretary General of the National Assembly, were appointed if most of the national MPs voted in favour of the proposal. I would like to put the motion to be called Jana Ljubicic as Secretary-General of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -199, v - nine, there were no abstentions, no vote – eight, of the total of 216 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has named Jana Ljubicic as the Secretary-General of the National Assembly by majority of the votes. Congratulations on your own and on your behalf. I ask the Secretary General of the National Assembly, Jan Ljubicic, to take office and take his place, but after an hour's break, which we determine to prepare the materials for the establishment of the Committee of the National Assembly. I'm extending my work, if that's necessary, and after 18.00 hours. [[after breaks]] We are moving to item 5 of the agenda – MEETING OF MEMBER STATES MEETING MEMBER STATES, you have received a proposal for a decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for debate of parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Parliamentary Progressive Party Group – two hours, 43 minutes and 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group – 30 minutes; the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group – 20 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group BORIS TADIĆ – New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia (PUPS) Group of MPs – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Social Democratic Party of Serbia Group – 12 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia – 8 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the New Serbia Group – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Vojvodina Hungarians – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Serbian Movement, the Democratic Party of Serbia – 8 minutes and 24 seconds; the SPA Group of the 7 minutes of the SPA – 7 minutes of the SD. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall determine, by mutual agreement, not more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the motion was nominally me, although the presidents of the parliamentary groups participated in the agreement on the composition of committees and permanent delegations, I will not take the floor in this debate. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u90	Thank you, Madam President. SDA SANDZAKA PDD MP club will discuss support for this proposal for the same reason we did not vote in favour of electing the vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Our parliamentary club is made up of parties that have performed independently as minority parties in previous elections, and thus we have become legitimate and legal representatives of Bosniaks, or Albanians in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. With this in mind, we have proposed that one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly be among the parties of national minorities, especially because there are three minority parties in parliament. We also propose a correction of the proposal for the composition of the committee, as well as a correction of the proposal for the composition of the Republic Election Commission and the composition of the permanent parliamentary delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. These proposals can be realised, with agreement, by correcting this existing proposal, by increasing the Vice-President of the National Assembly, which we discussed today at the College of the Presidents of Parliamentary Groups. Today we have a proposal that some of the most significant committees and parliamentary delegations for minorities do not have representatives of national minorities. That was the case with the early election of vice presidents of the National Assembly. We had a case that we elected three vice-presidents of the National Assembly from the SNS election list, one from the SPS, one from the DS and one from the New Democratic Party. These proposals must and should be seen as proposals for election lists. As I said, this is how the SNS got three vice-presidents of the National Assembly, two SNS candidates and one SDP candidate. The adoption of this proposal would allow minorities to actively engage in the political and public life of the Republic of Serbia and contribute to the development of democracy and parliamentaryism in the National Assembly. To all minorities, this is how they would send an important message, allowing their legitimate representatives as much space as possible. I sincerely expect this proposal will come to the support of all the parliamentary groups in this House, because otherwise this proposal is unacceptable for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u91	I thank Ambassador Imamovic. I hope that you have received a proposal that this is not the constitution of all the committees that exist under the Rules of Procedure in Parliament, and that there is certainly room for discussion, and I ask that the heads of Parliament's groups, after the session is completed and that this agenda is discussed, remain in the College, which will take a short time, on the arrangements and constitution of further committees and permanent delegations. Do any of the heads of parliament want to take part in the debate? (No) Since no one is answering from the heads of the parliamentary groups, I would like to inform you that only two independent MPs have signed up for the discussion on this agenda point, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from Ambassador Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u92	Thank you, President. Congratulations on your election, no matter what I didn't vote for you, it's my right. I expect you to pleasantly surprise the entire parliament, including us who have not voted for you. Not to waste a lot of time, just the principle thing about the board. In the Rules of Procedure and in the customs of this Parliament, the independent MPs are in a very difficult state, because they have denied many other opportunities, competencies and roles that other MPs have. Of course, it is perfectly natural that the largest parliamentary group has the highest president of the committee and the president of parliament, the head of the delegation, all of this is perfectly normal, that, proportionately, other parliamentary groups also report to the board, but I think it is totally unacceptable, for the reasons of the democracy of working in this body, that MPs who are not in the parliamentary groups do not have the opportunity to be members of any committee. I know it's according to the current Rules of Procedure. Of course, Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, or Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is a matter that can be changed. Some decisions may, as was the custom in an earlier period, also improve some of the illogicalness. So, I appeal to all the heads of Parliament to find the possibility that even the independent MPs, in this case, fortunately for you, it's just the two of us, so we're not looking for much space, nor do we need a lot of space, to find room for our participation in some committees of the Assembly. Of course, we're not looking for any presidential post, we're not looking for a place in delegations, we're looking for only committees, and we're looking for a few committees. I think it is one requirement that should be accepted, not at this time, but in the coming days and weeks and thus show your good will to make this parliament a real place for tolerance and parliamentaryism to be conducted in the most consistent way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u93	The word is from MP Vladimir Pavicevic, also an independent MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I wanted to rely on what Mr. Zoran Zivkovic had already proposed, when senior officials of the Progressive Party suggested that the speaker of the Assembly be elected to the rotation, then one argument was very interesting for our debate, which is to speed up the democracy of the work of our Assembly. We felt that these two things did not go together, but we concluded that the principle of democracy can, for example, be linked to the positioning of this majority here in relation to the election of MPs and committees of the Republic of Serbia Assembly. Since the two of us as independent MPs do not have the opportunity to propose ourselves or each other to participate in the Committee's work, we believe that this majority here, a very large one, would show that sense of more democratic work of the Assembly if it were to recommend that the two of us also participate in the work of some of the Assembly committees. In other words, we suggest two things that most of us ourselves propose to participate in committees that we are interested in and we can say that. Another thing, to provide opposition MPs and to manage a number of assembly committees because it is also an indicator of a democratic spirit. Of course, whatever the approach of this majority is, we will vote to adopt this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u95	I thank the independent MPs for their participation in the debate. I'm just going to add that we are obliged to respect the existing Rules of Procedure and in these frameworks we can only work at this point. Your remarks are very important. Parliament's earlier meetings also discussed the status of independent MPs, so this could be the basis for launching the procedure for amending or adopting a new Rules of Procedure and considering your position and the position of all other independent MPs. I give my word to the president of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic. Here you go. Excuse me, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am using the right to a replica, and I am sure that in this assembly as well as in many future, as in many past councils, we will have certain challenges in the very functioning of the National Assembly. The assembly is a living organism, changing daily, but we have also shown today a normal, decent, civilised conversation at the Assembly College that these challenges are going through, that challenges for some parliamentary groups that may not have had the opportunity to give candidates to vice presidents of the National Assembly. We solved this with one gentleman's, normal dialogue. We have also shown a way to appreciate every member of parliament, no matter how large or small a parliamentary group he is or how independent an MP he is. There's only one thing I'd like to ask you to do, and that's that deob on the high and low SNS officials. The Serbian Progressive Party is unique. I'm 194 centimeters tall, and I don't know if I belong to a group of tall, low or medium-sized officials or members. We don't deal with elitism, we're all under the law, in front of God, in front of people, we're equal and there's no division. We are for dialogue. We agree with the Rules of Procedure which we did not write, but which we are obliged to apply. In accordance with the desire to change this Rules of Procedure, and to be one to suit all MPs. I think in that spirit we'll keep working. In any case, there is no indication of a desire to discriminate in this room and no one has any right to do so, and unfortunately there has been such a case in the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u97	Thank you. The replica of Mr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u98	Please, my intention wasn't at all to discredit any member of the SNS based on whether he's a high official or not, but I think it's obvious to all of us that someone who takes a more significant position in any party, that his or her word is worth a lot more, that with greater attention he listens. I just intervened, and I wanted to say that the vice president of the SNS when he proposed the idea of electing a president based on rotation, so, when it was current here, he called for an argument of democracy. I thought that when the vice president of the SNS said that it had some significant weight. It was not my intention to insult anyone, to humiliate myself, but only to bind myself to this principle of democracy that we can use right here in terms of elections and some MPs who do not have the opportunity to enter as members of the Assembly committees through the Rules of Procedure. I just wanted to appeal to this principle of democracy and to provide us with full participation in the work of the Assembly committees. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-23-0.u99	Thank you, we understand. On the lists of parliamentary groups, there are no more entries for the word, so before the conclusion of a single search, I would ask if any of the heads of Parliament would like to hear from you? (No) I am concluding a unique search. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 24. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on a proposal for a decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, shall be decided in general by a public vote. Members and deputy members of the Committee shall be elected if the majority of the total number of MPs voted for a draft decision. Please just one little note, it's about the committees that are here in front of you. Therefore, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, has voted – five, of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the motion for a decision in general. I'd like to inform you that the session will continue tomorrow at 1200 hours. I would like to ask the heads of the parliamentary groups to hold a brief meeting, i.e. a college for the continuation of the session, and I would like to inform you that tomorrow at 11.00 p.m., a memorial meeting is held in connection with the death of MPs and members of the current government of Mr Jovan Krkobic. Please attend. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 135 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly at the First Session of the National Assembly exists if most of the national MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 158 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We continue to work on the 5th item of the agenda – the selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly You have received a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Parliamentary Progressive Party Group – two hours, 43 minutes and 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group – 30 minutes; the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group – 20 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Socialist Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia – 12 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia – 8 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of New Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Vojvodjan Hungarians – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction, the Democratic Party of Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the SDA Group of the S. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak once, up to five minutes each. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs who wish to participate in the debate. According to Article 9(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 24. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on a proposal for a decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, shall be decided in general by a public vote. Members and deputy members of the Committee shall be elected if the majority of the total number of MPs voted for a draft decision. I put to the vote the draft decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 185, against – no one with abstention – has voted – six of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority of the votes of the total number of MPs. We move to the sixth item of the agenda – the election of Members of the Permanent Parliamentary Delegations in the International Institutions You have received a proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Parliamentary Progressive Party Group – two hours, 43 minutes and 12 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group – 30 minutes; the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group – 20 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Socialist Group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia – 12 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia – 8 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of New Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the Vojvodjan Hungarians – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction, the Democratic Party of Serbia – 7 minutes and 12 seconds; the SDA Group of the S. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, shall, by mutual agreement, determine no more than three participants in the debate, who have the right to discuss each other for up to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Since no parliamentary group has submitted a list for discussion, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if the presidents, or authorised representatives, want the word? (No) I am concluding a unique search. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, according to Article 105(2) point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 196 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted two of the total 198 ambassadors present. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, a proposal for a decision to determine the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. How the National Assembly conducted the examination of all points of the agenda of this session and the decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the First Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I would like to remind the MPs that the continuation is the beginning of the next session at 15.00 hours. Thank you. (Session closed at 12.25 hours)
