ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14584	Dear fellow MPs, I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Infrastructure, Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic. The first question concerns something we agreed on as the RS Assembly, which concerns the restoration of road infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In August of this month, we had a debate in the tide, and then we ratified the loan that the state of Serbia raised from the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which concerns the rehabilitation of the travel network in Serbia. Then, as the National Assembly, we adopted certain routes whose programme was built by the public company The Ways of Serbia. At that time, I spoke on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, and the minister, on my express question of when the process of building these roads would begin, said the tenders would be completed by the end of August or early September, and that all works would take place during the calendar year 2014. I am now asking us as Members of Parliament and the Honorable Minister, what is the problem, and why is he late? I have not noticed anywhere in Serbia that no road has even begun to work from this programme. What's also important is that, as I come from the territory of Šumadia, from Topola, I am particularly interested in the direction that entered that network, which is the direction of Mine-Topla, which is 28 km long, which is significantly damaged after the May floods. There are more than 15 slides, two bridges that are damaged, there's a board on which it writes – a contractor, and all the papers will be completed by October 1st, in the signature of the Ministry of Infrastructure, and we're all witnesses that the works have not started, but that no one is simply thinking about them. We hear informally from the people of the Ways of Serbia, that the problem with the procedure is with the approval of funds. Also, we hear off the record that certain shares are, like, e.g. Topola-Arangelovac-Lazarevac passed and that certain contractors, but off the record, we hear the contracts were signed a month and a half ago, but that these contractors are not getting you into work. It's also interesting and I'm asking for an explanation and a solution from the Resort Ministry for why it's done. My second question is also about the same Ministry. We are witnessing these days, and the public is upset with the various announcements that the toll collection system will change, and that the introduction of a vignette is being considered, or that the current collection system will change. I absolutely don't mind, but I'm asking the honourable minister to get answers, because she said that the Ministry is working intensively on it, that a committee is formed that will determine the best way, which I agree with, to collect tolls, but she would want me to get an answer from an esteemed minister, when she has formed a commission that will determine the most optimal form of toll collection in RS territory, and who makes that commission, to simply see what those experts are, and what are those people from the Ministry who make that commission, and when that plan should be completed? My third question is for the same Ministry. When we talk about a commission that should provide an explanation that is the most optimal form of toll collection, it was mentioned, and in a statement by the resolution minister, and also by its associates that the charge will also apply to, to, to think about, and to the state roads of the first order. For viewers to know, they're old highways. As far as my question is concerned, is it specific that I get an explanation which is still a number of roads, and as far as precise mileage is concerned, the state roads on RS territory without KIM which has not yet been paved? It's an interesting fact that there are state roads of the second order, first of all, that never had any asphalt after World War II. I expect to get a concrete answer with precise mileage, which are these routes and whether there is a concrete plan to, above all, pave the way for all state roads on RS territory, from Saturday to Vranj. Once again, I ask for a concrete answer without Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14585	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14586	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Petrochemia and Azotara are two Pancheva giants who are these days in the spotlight of public interest, mostly national media, primarily due to large debt to gas. The debts exceed all the debts of the Serbian state to Russia. It should be recalled that these are also enterprises that are still in the direct jurisdiction of the state, because they are in restructuring and for which the state is looking for potential strategic partners. At the same time, however, these two giants continue to give great headaches to the Pančevs, because they are polluting the environment with their work, and in recent weeks it is very interesting that some small explosions cause fear to enter Panchevo, which is why citizens are concerned about their safety. We have already asked several times as "Green Serbia" what is happening in Panchev. Unfortunately, we did not get the right answers. The question is, once again, will the factory continue to pollute air or not? It is not sufficient for us to respond to measures to determine the impact of the Azotara on the environment and, in accordance with the established results, to take the measures provided for in the law. Not enough answer to see what happens, but in the 21st century... I need another wire, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14587	Ambassador, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14588	I need another wire. I can't hear myself either.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14589	Then sit down and talk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14590	You think that's simpler than calming down your colleagues?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14591	I will ask my colleagues to die, to listen to another question from MEP Ivan Karic, and I ask MP Ivan Karic not to throw it away, he does not shout what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14592	Ambassador Marijan Risticevic throws away and you don't see him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14593	Yes, but you know I need you to speak to me, and I'm going to ask an MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14594	And he knows I don't need him to talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14595	Don't argue with the flaw.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14596	I'm not fighting at all, but he knows I don't need him talking to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14597	So you don't want to ask the question anymore?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14598	No, of course I will, but if you cannot establish order in parliament, then take away my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14599	I would ask the MPs to help me establish order in parliament, so that they do not earn each other, do not shout - what, even so, because the real dignity of this assembly cannot defend only the chairman, but all MPs with their own conduct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14600	Therefore, Pančevci learn very disturbing news from local media, which is that yellow smoke from “Azotara” will continue to poison the Panchean air, since unfortunately there is no money to obtain the necessary equipment. Meanwhile, Pančevci were unwarranted for three days and three nights exposed to panic and fear of noise and great flames from the Petrochemy factory torch, as the authorities did not explain what the start of production means and what it could cause. It is frantic that the factory, which remains in the jurisdiction of the state, does not consider its obligation to inform citizens of what it is doing, which can affect public safety and the health of citizens. In 2009, the Arhu Convention was adopted and ratified as an international instrument for environmental protection, guaranteeing citizens the availability of information when it comes to the environment and the Constitution of the Serbian state in article 74 guarantees the right to a healthy environment and to timely and complete notification of its condition. The question being asked is what kind of message does the state of Serbia send to citizens if it does not respect and apply its own Constitution and international agreements to which provisions have been made? The claims that despite the noise and high flames in the city, there was no increased concentration of air pollution are not convincing, because city monitoring in Pancheva because money from the Environmental Protection Fund has been usurped and spent unintendedly for three years, has not measured the parameters and could not be measured because of the corrupt analysts and because of the failure of monitoring system that has been malfunctioning for several months. The Pancians survived the launch of production in Petrochemia, they will survive and launch “Azotara”, but in the 21st century it is not ideal to survive, but to live. Will because of the transfer of competences from one to the next and the wrong city monitors, because of the refusal of the "Azotara" leadership to go public, will the Pančeks continue to be in danger? No business, nor industry can pollute the environment and destroy human health if we want to be part of the EU and if we want to exist primarily as a state. The environmental collapse of Serbia, which has been going on for months, will be the biggest obstacle to integration, but, most importantly, it will be the biggest obstacle to human health. My question for the competent energy and mining ministers and the competent environment and agriculture ministers is what exactly does the "Azotara" remont cover and whether the Azotara factory will no longer pollute air after the start of production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14601	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14602	The esteemed chairman, respected presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, as a doctor and as an MP, I would like to ask one question to the Minister of Health and the Minister of Police. Dear citizens, I want to send a message through the asked question to all of you to take care of the growing drug abuse in Serbia. We are witnessing that in Serbia on the Internet, in print media, electronic media, more and more white Mags appear, some otters appear more and more, frauds are emerging who are trying to just sick people who are looking for a cure to cheat and make money on their torment. There are numerous examples throughout the history of the last 15-20 years of what has been happening since Alan Chumak, who has treated sick people with his photo that he has been putting into tea that these people drink until Vladimir Madic has been arrested for selling sewage pipes, where he has offered Serbian citizens that it is a cure against AIDS and a cure against tumours. We are witnessing that a huge number of otters are offering melanomas that are called anticancer medicine and tumours. We have some so-called psychics offering healing by walking barefoot. You have some psychics and otters that say you don't need anything to eat, that's how you destroy the tumor. You have countless con men who, unfortunately, use your torment. The question is, I'm asking the Minister of Police and the Minister of Health because two laws treat these frauds, these so-called drug dealers. We need to be stricter on them. We have to ban their advertising in electronic media. We have to ban their advertising in the printed media, because they're getting more and more waved every day. They make health worse every day. I'm going to tell you on the case as a doctor of otorinolaringology and a professor at the University of Nis, I've been witnessing for the last 20 years that I've had patients who have seen otters, some so-called drug addicts treating sinuses with sea cucumbers, treating sinus inflammation and burning their noses with a sea dunchet. These are, unfortunately, preparations that when you put in your nose can cause anaphylactic reaction, can cause shock, can cause death. So don't go to people like that, people like that. You have a number of treatments they recommend, to treat the incineration of the ear with the guard of the house. You have countless examples to recommend putting on garlic. Dear citizens, it's all a big con and we as a health profession, and as a Assembly, we have to stand up against these con men who cheat daily on Serbian citizens, sick citizens of Serbia who are grasping for the last straw of salvation when official medicine has no answer to any question and some disease. However, dealing with these con men only takes your money and only makes your health worse. The second question I would ask Minister Voulina, since we have an increasing number of company workers in restructuring, in bankruptcy companies, in companies that don't pay health insurance to their workers. Through one example, I also want to introduce you to the fact that as a MP, I have filed a complaint against the administration of a collective who, although having had money, has paid a contribution to health insurance to his employees. There's a guy working in that collective who unfortunately suffers from a serious illness. His condition is getting worse. That's why for the first time I wrote as an official MP reporting against that collective and he sent it to the Ministry of Health, so I ask him what he did, since he hasn't had a 15-day response from the Ministry? What have you done, Mr. Vulin? Did you send an inspection into that collective where I asked it to be sent? The sooner you let me know about it, because the medical condition of this 30-year-old employee is very bad. Once again, at the end of my question, I'm going back to nadhareking. Once again, appeal to the citizens of Serbia, do not trust the frauds who are on the Internet every day, in the printed and electronic media. We must also believe that we support official medicine and the official health system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14603	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14604	A question for the government of Serbia and the president of the National Assembly. After a recent question by the minister of justice – whether the deputy prosecutor for war crimes Bruno Vekaric was legally elected to the post, I was exposed to a brutal, unacceptable and illegal campaign of pressure, intimidation and threats by the war crimes prosecutor, endangering Article 103. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says among other things that the MP enjoys immunity and cannot be called on for criminal or other responsibility for a voiced opinion or vote on the exercise of his parliamentary post. The War Crimes Prosecution is threatening me with some kind of investigation. He's trying to compromise me with a fictional crime story that's supposed to be out of date. Individuals in that prosecution without any evidence link my name to the alleged threats that are coming to the prosecution. Besides, for a long time, I've been the subject of real Stalinist accusations, media links and worst lies by individuals from the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. How serious intimidation and heavy pressure on me as a MP shows the scandalous letter that the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office sent to the US and OSCE ambassadors in Belgrade on 14.6.2013, under the designation "A No. 169/13", which they report and sue me for allegedly quoting by my degrees in parliament, I can do harm to the prosecution's work. They appeal to foreign ambassadors for answering my parliamentary questions and for coming before the Assembly Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, interpreting this coming as a good will, not as a legal obligation. The war crimes prosecutor's office in a letter to the foreign ambassadors, my parliamentary question of the legality of the appointment of Bruno Vekaric as the deputy prosecutor was falsely and maliciously characterized as an attack on the Prosecutor's Office and a false claim. At the end of the letter in question, it is estimated that the alleged repetition of the inappropriate behaviour of MP Drecun is directly contrary to constitutional and legal provisions and powers of the MPs. Citated harsh untruths and flat-rate estimates are most difficult to compromise and challenge the right of the MP and president of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee to comply with Article 74. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall call for a session of the Committee of Representatives of State Authorities, and the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes shall be a state authority, asking the Republic Authority for information and information of importance for the work of the Committee, and that, in accordance with Article 287 of the Parliament of the Members of the other Republic authorities and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority at which they are headed, shall request information and explanations. I have received the mandate of the MP from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not from foreign ambassadors, so the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office cannot and must not influence the exercise of my parliamentary mandate by trying to discredit me, intimidate and prevent me from carrying out my parliamentary mandate. The letters mentioned are a unique, unacceptable and unprecedented scandal that represents a highly unacceptable attack on the National Assembly and its Constitution defined place. It is the twilight of parliamentaryism and requires a determination of responsibility. For the tragedy to be greater, the same war crimes prosecutor's office sent a quote on 10.11.2010 at a meeting with Kendall Deja, a legal adviser at the US Embassy, via Prosecutor Vukcevic, but in the prosecution they are ready to meet once a month with representatives of the US Embassy and to speak more specifically about the course of each case. Based on that quote, I wonder whose prosecution of war crimes, the Republic of Serbia or the United States? How is it that the Prosecutor's Office feels that it is their good will to attend the session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, and on the other hand they are offering to the US Embassy to inform it of the course of each case? Isn't that giving away official secrets? I'm also asking the Republic Prosecutor if the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has informed him and has he been granted permission to contact him in writing or directly on those cases with the staff of foreign embassies? Also, I ask which authorities the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office receives consent from, or approval from, which authorities, e.g. BIA, VBA, MUP, after contact with foreign diplomatic representatives, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is delivering reports and in what way and in order to protect security? Have your competent authorities been informed of those contacts? What will the Government and the President of the National Assembly do, of course, to enable me to continue to carry out my parliamentary mandate? Because in the atmosphere of threats, lies, slanders and media links conducted by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, I cannot carry out the mandate I received from the citizens of Serbia. The second question is addressed to the competent authorities - when will they check the spending of financial resources in the war crimes prosecutor's office, which comes from the budget of the Republic of Serbia or from donations? Could there be abuse in their spending? Was there business co-operation between the NGO “Transition Process Centre”, which was deleted from the Agency for Business Registers 20.6.2011...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14605	Time. You can finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14606	... With the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and is their mutual business legal? Finally, did the editor of the "Study of Words and Acts" call or encourage war crimes in the media in Serbia in 1991-1992, issued by the Centre for Transition Affairs, publish data from the pre-taste procedure, which are official secrets in this publication?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14607	Thank you. I would ask you to hand over the documents you possess and to which you have called, so I will be able to answer you after seeing that documentation, meaning, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in writing within 15 days. The second part of the question will be forwarded to the authorities you asked the question. Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word in accordance with Article 287? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(2) and Article 101(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that there is a session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and that they have not yet completed their work, therefore, we are unable to print our opinions on the amendments, so I ask you to understand. We can continue the session at 10.45 hours, when they finish their session and give us the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Environment Committee has done its part of the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljević Bošković, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Prof. Zoran Rajić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Danilo Golubović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Slobodan Erdeljan, Assistant Minister of Agriculture and Environment Protection; Mr. Nenad Katanić, Assistant Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Mr. Sonja Gašić, Head of the Department for Sustainable Use of the Fisheries Fund at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Ružica Tripić, Head of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Mr. Dusan Ognjanović, Head of the Department of the Department of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Milica Jevtic, Head of the Department of the Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment; Ružica Tripić, Head of the Department of Agriculture and the Health of Agriculture and Health in the Ministry of Agriculture of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Dr Blagoja Bradić, Dr Branislav Blažić, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Milan Novaković, Marijan Risticevic, Ivan Karić, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Mr Dejan Capo; Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandar Senić and Arpad Fremond. In writing, amendments were withdrawn by MPs Gordana Komic and Borislav Stefanovic, who submitted to members 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 25, 41, 43, 60 and 61. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14609	Ladies and gentlemen, about this amendment to Article 2 and all the others I have submitted, in total 23, it is about two different concepts of the law that the Government and the law which I am, in some way, together with fishing alliances and with people who have been here in practice for decades and years, come to some knowledge of what it should look like. This amendment is part of a broad discussion and consultation that I have done with people from practice and people who do this work. What is the essence of this amendment, I will read it, and that is to be in that Article 2. The proposal for a law of point 11, 20, 21, 27, 30, 32, is amended and read as follows: ‘11) the user of the fishing area, as a carrier of public authority, is a company or a public undertaking whose fishing waters are subject to use; 20) the pressure on the fish fund is the degree of burdens suffered by the fish fund due to fishing activities, to adverse situations and unfavourable hydrological opportunities; 30) the fishing organisations are citizens' associations established for recreational and competitive fishing, to popularise fishing, to educate fishermen, to organise them and to record them’. What's the point here, what do I want to warn you about right away? This is that the Constitutional Court concluded by its decision that the authorisation of recreational fishing does not constitute a type of commercial service provided by the user of the fishing area by a recreational fisherman, but constitutes a public authority for the user of the fishing area, and on behalf of the State, which owns the area, allows, or allows, individuals to fish recreationally, because the issue of recreational fishing licences does not constitute an economic activity, but rather a transfer of public authority under the law governing the conditions and procedure for the exercise of public authority. The words “other legal person”, which we have, should be left out because “another legal person” means the possibility that the association of sports fishermen or groups of citizens will receive a fishing area for management, and that the establishment of such a legal person requires two natural persons, one seal and registration in the APR, which, by its seriousness and capital, cannot compensate for any damage done to the fish fund, and the penalties threatened by law do not apply to this type of legal entities. So, if I don't read how it's been formulated, you have the amendment, the point is to be careful. If the Constitutional Court has reached that solution, then it is necessary to pay attention, because if the user file a lawsuit with the Constitutional Court, I would like to say that he will get it. It's not a good thing we start at the beginning, with Article 2, this law brings us into collapsing with the Constitution of this country. That's why it was necessary to pay attention to that, because that's the most important part of what was supposed to be written here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14610	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment, with a correction. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 2nd amendment, with correction, were submitted by MP Milan Novakovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the National MP Dr Blagoje Bradic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14611	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished fishermen, Article 5 speaks about the entry of fishing areas to use, and he says "that the fishing area or part of the fishing area, in the following text: the fishing area, belongs to the use of ministers. The fishing area situated in the territory of the AP shall be subject to the use of the competent regional authority’. Furthermore, it says: “The fishing area applies to the use of public competition for 10 years, the fishing area applied to the use of the user cannot be granted to other entities, i.e. it cannot be leased." I suggested that the word "minister" be replaced by the words "chief of the management district" and that the second position which says "the fishing area located in the territory of the AP be replaced by the use of the competent regional authority" - be deleted. For what reason? I think we can, especially when the law we are talking about is to enter chapter 22, which is waiting for us in the further period as we approach the EU, which speaks of decentralisation, that it is necessary, at least when the management of fishing waters and fishery resources is, to make maximum decentralisation and that these fishing areas are given by the county's chiefs in whose territory these fishing areas are. I think that we will first achieve that those who are interested in the quality of maintenance and management of these fishing areas are involved and are motivated to monitor with more attention and responsibility the work of the tenants of these fishing areas, and on the other hand, by decentralisation we will achieve that the spread of layers of interest in these territories can decide fate. I'm thinking about fishermen who, seeing as you've turned down all the amendments that we've tried to, somehow the sports alliance, bring the fishing alliance back to life and give it a chance to do what it's been doing for 65 years. I can see that this law makes it the most devasive, that we want to, that's all. that the assembly majority wants the parallel fishing organisations, which are founded by the users, let's talk, that we understand each other completely, for the sake of personal interest to be ultimately stronger than what is Serbia's sport fishing alliance. I think you should accept, dear colleagues, this amendment of mine, to be exempt from the Ministry's decision to use fishing areas, that this should be done at the county level, until Chapter 22 is applied, i.e. decentralisations, and then these future regions take over, and this Assembly will adopt, on a proposal for a legal profession. It is logical that, if exempt from the decision of the Ministry, the division of fishing areas, the same method, i.e. is applied in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. that the district chiefs there decide to divide these fishing areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14612	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The word has a minister, Mrs. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14613	Thank you. We have rejected this amendment, for the simple reason that it is contrary to the concept of law. When I say by the concept of law, I mean that we have come from the fact that the fish fund is a natural resource and as such is the property of the state of Serbia. The fishing fund shall be entrusted to the users of fishing areas, in the sense of the conclusion of a contract for the entry of fishing areas, after a public competition has been implemented. The concept is that the competent minister decides on all the important things that are related to the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, for the simple reason, what I said at the beginning, so we start from being a natural resource and being as such property of the Serbian state. Your proposal, if accepted, would mean that we are going to defuse the fishing areas of the administrative districts and that proposal, in our opinion, would be unsustainable and inconclusive, for the simple reason that in some areas, due to a relatively small number of fishing licences sold, few resources would be provided, which would otherwise be necessary for the protection and sustainable preservation of the fish fund. On the other hand, certain areas would provide a significantly higher amount of money from the sale of fishing licences than they needed to ensure the conservation and protection of the fish fund. Also, I want to say that this is how we want to create a balanced system and ensure that the fish fund can be preserved and protected throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as one natural resource and as one state resource that needs to be used by us and by generations to come. In addition, the fees from the use of fishing areas are an integral part of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, since they cannot be part of the budget of the ministry responsible for these tasks, it is logical that they cannot be part of the budget of local self-government and for these reasons we have decided on this concept and this approach to this once valuable natural resource. Since I'm running out of time and chairing my warning, in the next round, I'm going to tell you some more reasons why we came into the making of this law right out of these positions, that is, with this basic concept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14614	Thank you. By amendment, Dr. Blagoje Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14615	Madam Minister, you're wrong. You say that fishing areas give in to users in order to preserve the fish fund. Fishing areas, in order to make it more clear to colleagues in an O.R. that are not so much in matter, as well as citizens who are following this transfer, to make it clear to them, are subject to the users who are doing it for profit. So no company is going to take the fishing zone without any use of it. The only benefit from fishing is the payment of licenses, fishing permits, whatever we call them, which are about six, seven thousand on an annual basis. Multiply that times 50,000 users of fishermen and you'll see what money we're talking about. It's an interest. Now you're telling me that whoever takes out of interest is going to invest all his money in the reconstruction of the fish fund. What we have now is proof that it's not a good principle. Are you saying that the minister can have all the fishing areas that will be re-determined later, that he knows the problems of all fishing areas, and that's all he does on a daily basis? That's not true. I'm just saying that the district chief and his professional service, I don't think he's single, they know much better what the problem is in their district, in those fishing areas that belong to them, and that they're going to do much better and they're going to lead the order. And if you want those fishing areas to have those who will be safe, which will all be collected as the income of these fishing licences to return to the restoration of these fish resources, the conservation of the environment in the coasts, then that should be done by sports organisations of fishermen and not by privates. Because the sport organisations of the fishing sports alliance are non-profit organisations and must not profit at the end of the year. It's an association of citizens and they don't work in income, unlike privates, whose normal nature of business is to earn income. That's why I insisted that the district chief do it, and that's why all these amendments that you refused. You're saying here that you're working in favour of preserving the fish fund, and then we're giving it to privates who, normally, are looking for profit in what they're doing. They don't work out of love, unlike the fishermen who do it out of love. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14616	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14617	Just for a little while, let me continue the interpretation, which is why we think this concept is good. It's the concept of the whole law. With everything I've said, I must add that if we accept your amendment, other measures are necessary that we would have to take according to that, that the administrative districts are established under the Law on State Administration and are practically established for the purposes of doing the affairs of the state administration, outside the headquarters of the state administration. In our case, we'd have to be the Ministry to educate a special district unit. Practically even organisationally, it wasn't possible. I want to say that this law is passed because the situation in the area of management of the Fish Fund is now really difficult and inadmissible. For longer periods of such a situation, the Fish Fund would certainly be at risk to a significant extent. We have come seriously and responsibly to resolve all these issues and take responsibility for ourselves to try to protect the Fish Fund and to significantly improve this situation. You mentioned these potential users. Of course, we ourselves proposed the law and went to the variant to provide as many potential users as possible, i.e. participants in a competition that would be publicly organised and only the best and those with a good programme would get, i.e. they would be entrusted with fish areas for protection and protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14618	Thank you. You have no right, only by amendment. [[Blagoje Bradić, from the place: I have the right to replica.]] The 5th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14619	Mr Becicu, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, my colleague, Mrs Comic and colleague Stefanovic, have tabled an amendment to Article 5. He is the result of the amendments we have submitted to Article 2 and allow me to express my disagreement with your position to refuse this amendment. In fact, it is not about any political position of the DS regarding this law or these members, it is about agreeing with the position of the 2012 Constitutional Court, which made it very clear that the management of the fish fund as a natural resource is a transfer of public authority by the Republic of Serbia to the user of the fishing area. You have the authority to accept this amendment today. The amendment to Article 2 has passed, the ruling majority has the power to do so. You can now accept this amendment and thus condition the ruling majority to accept the amendment to Article 2. So, if you refuse this amendment now, you ignore the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2012 and thus already create the possibility of problems in announcing some future lawsuits or complaints to the Constitutional Court. So once again, I ask you to consider, you have the authority to accept this amendment now, so I ask you to reconsider the amendments submitted by my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14620	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14621	As far as this amendment is concerned, the reasons why this amendment was rejected are legal reasons, so to speak. I repeat, in the context of the creation of this law, we have defined fish areas as an economic resource, a resource entrusted to the users of fishing areas based on the fisheries contract and after a public competition and thus, according to legal terminology, between the Republic of Serbia and the users, a bonding legal status is established. In this respect, public authorities are transferred to the users of fishing areas, but they are not public authorities within the meaning of the State Administration Act. That's why this public authority can't be identified with the idea you're talking about here. Also, when it comes to the issue of fishing authorisations, this act cannot be identified by issuing authorisations within the meaning of the State Administration Act and the general administrative procedure, because a certain amount of money is paid for the licence and it does not decide on the rights and obligations of the applicant for authorisation. Finally, I should also point out that the users of fishing areas themselves are economic operators of different legal status and different capacity, and in this case they cannot identify themselves with public authorities. I just want to say that simply out of this argument comes a different concept of issues relating to public authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14622	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14623	Mr. Becic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in order to make it easier for viewers who may not understand professional terms, we used exactly the terms that the Constitutional Court defined with its 2012 position. I have here the Constitutional Court's decision, understood about this member. We have defined it in the same way and we are not actually changing Article 5 that has been defined by law, we are supplementing it with a new member, more precisely defined, better, and I believe that this amendment can help make this law better. I'm going to read it one more time, so maybe we can think about it one more time and accept this amendment. Therefore, in Article 5 after Article 2, we have added Article 3, a new position to better define this member and it is read – the concession of the fishing area or part of the fishing area is a delegated public authority to the user of the fishing area, which provides sustainable management. So, once again, this is just a better and more precise definition of Article 5, and once again, please, I'm sure, and by your smile, I'd say you're ready to accept this amendment, so I thank you in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14624	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blažić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14625	Since Mr. Risticevic has submitted to this article an amendment that is practically identical to my amendment, then I will only accept his amendment and that is it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14626	Thank you, Mr. Blazic. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, head of the DS parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14627	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, we think that through this amendment with the amendment, certain things are really precise. For example, Article 6(1) changes and points 2, according to our proposal, in a way where it is technically and professionally equipped to carry out its activities, i.e. having the means and equipment necessary for the management of the fishing area, as well as an employee in a permanent working relationship with acquired higher education in second-degree studies, then describes what this means specifically and in which colleges. We believe that not only does this further specify the matter, but the fish fund and the fish area is being protected because the person applying for the use of this area must also have equipment, to know in advance how many people are planning to hire, how many fishers are employed, but it also alternatively places the possibility of either hiring that person or having a co-operation agreement with one of the authorised fisheries institutions. If you don't adopt this amendment, we'll be in a position where someone who already has a contract with those institutions pays for it, and this gives an alternative possibility for someone to have an employee. Mahom is already employed by experts in this area in these particular institutions. This alternative proposal makes it easier for these people to function more easily. They are asked to have clear professional, technical training, to prevent abuses in competitions, to have a privileged position of people already in the framework of that organisation that is taking up a particular area. Therefore, we believe that the solution given in the bill is not logical, as it favours something imaginary in relation to what already exists and that in itself can be the source of manipulation when assessing the applications received in the contest. This amendment proposes an amendment taking into account both the number of employees and the number to be planned. The solution given in the proposal leaves, as I said, too many undefined things, and just to prevent this situation, we suggest that the change that eliminates the possibility of possible manipulations be adopted and that through this more precise setting, through the DS amendment indeed, this law, in which there is no political or any possibility for our political disagreement or discussion, is specified and that the thing that goes forward and in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, therefore, that we have indeed one consolidated law that allows for a reaction through a legal proposal in all situations. If we don't, we have the possibility, as it is given in the bill, that someone in a very wide-ranging way can abuse, which we have so far unfortunately in practice. This is how you know who needs to be hired and what exactly the degree of professional training and from which college and technical training for the sustainability of the fish fund and what is very important is the alternative possibility of using a contract with an institution or hiring a person from these specific clearly defined professions. Please, if at all possible, adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14628	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has a minister in the government, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14629	Your Honor, I thank you for the good proposal for an amendment. I expect him to listen, but he's not listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14630	Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14631	The amendment is really constructive and good, but to some extent it conflicts with our basic principle and concept when we did this bill. First of all, our intention is to raise the professional capacity of the fisheries user himself. That's one of the basic objectives of this law. In any event, the user of the fishing area shall be obliged to engage an accredited scientific or professional organisation in the development of an annual fisheries management programme. Thus, the involvement of accreditation of a scientific or professional organisation does not in any way exclude the obligation to raise the professional capacity of the user himself, as well as the fact that it does not exclude the obligation to hire an appropriate professional person. In addition, I have to say that this part of you, which refers to the proposal, is considered unacceptable in applying to a competition by certain entities that would participate in the competition, by having employed fishermen, for the simple reason that we want to give everyone a chance, to have more potential users and to choose among them the best, which means that they assume on themselves the obligation of additional employment in the next period and the implementation of the programme that is presented and which, of course, we accept and agree with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14632	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14633	Thank you, Madam Minister. Yes, I'm glad you're seeing our constructive intention in this amendment, but it seems to me from your presentation now that you're really looking at it that way with some foreseeable optimism in applying the rules that this thing is going to be regulated and set very wide. We have a way, not a conflict, that's a rough word, but a different view of two concepts. We think that it is always better to define certain situations precisely in the legislative proposal, and you think that precise definition can not only favour a particular side, but that people are obliged to do something by themselves. I admit that I'm really not an expert on this subject and you know it, but knowing the little one, I know how much there's public service, how many abuses there are and how many things that completely destroy the fish fund in Serbia, where there's everything and everything, the most sloppy and possibly criminal acts. But in our opinion, this precise thing would also determine exactly who can do it and who is professional and what it means to be professional and what it means to be contracted with an institution. So you're all listed very precisely. There's no room for the tenant's interpretation of how he should do it. It seems to us that this proposal of yours leaves an opportunity for the tenant to interpret himself. So, he's gonna interpret why someone who's got supposed fishermen would be favored. You say, "You don't need to favor someone, you need to give a wider circle of people." This means that someone who wants to get into the business simply doesn't have to have fishermen, but is left with it as some obligation that is understood. Nothing in Serbia is understood. We believe that it must be prescribed as an obligation, otherwise people who deal with the wood industry, or keep a bar in a place, get into this business, so one of them works in a coffee shop, and the other one's like a fisherman. Believe me, it's my impression, and I'm really a layman, but I know exactly what's going on in Serbia. So it's normal for them to go there and steal fish with dynamite or electricity, kill fish funds that are otherwise devastated. That's why we think it's better to specify this thing, because you're so-called. private citizens in Serbia, under allegations, are looking at having as little cost as possible. What, if he does not have a specific obligation, would he now have a plan to hire a fisherman and how many already have them? If he does not have this provision, he will continue to do what he wants and spread his activity, also under the precepts, to what only capitalists are profitable to him, and for the public good, he does not care, as it has been for years. I ask you to appreciate this, because this is going in the direction, not just precision, but just to avoid these bad things from the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14634	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Madam Minister, you don't have a chance to report twice on one amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14635	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would like to thank the Government not only on my behalf, but also on behalf of Mr Blazic, because our amendments were very similar. It is the fact that experts who carry out professional activities in the use of fishing areas must have a course or an jitology exam, thus being trained to use fishing areas. With that in mind, I thank you for the understanding the government has shown about these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14636	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14637	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I would understand the policy you're leading to why you refused my last amendment. I really understand that. You're in favour of having it all centralized, and my party, Together for Serbia, is in favour of decentralisation. In the next period, you will also accept decentralisation, and then you will change this law. But I don't understand why you refused my amendment to Article 6. For the sake of Serbian citizens, let me just say what this is about. These are the conditions for a fishing area, so who has the right to report to the competition. In Article 1, paragraph 3, you say that the person who owns the private company, the company, etc., says that it is not within two years prior to the publication of a competition for the entry into service of the fishing area for commercial offences and offences in the area of protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. Now I'm asking a question from a few days ago when it was a principle debate – if two and a half years ago it was punished for economic crime and caught in poaching and destroying the environment, then can it be owned and won the natural resource of the Republic of Serbia? My amendment says those who compete and gain the use of the natural resources of the Republic of Serbia must not be punished. How do you let a fox keep the chickens? Is that the Ministry's intention? Then I doubt it, since you're a sad minister, it's a matter of people working at the Ministry, meaning that this article in 64 isn't exactly written, that you favor someone, that you give someone private and someone an opportunity to work even though they probably don't deserve to get a natural resource to own it. So here you are opening up the possibility of corruption and abuse. Because if you give someone who is tried for economic crime and for a crime or a crime against the natural environment and the environment an opportunity to manage the fishing treasure of the Republic of Serbia, there is corruption. What our people would say, someone took the money. Please accept this amendment, to exclude those who have been punished, who have been proven guilty, that they can even apply for the use of the fishing area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14638	Thank you, Dr. Bradic. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14639	I'm just going to remind you for a little while that the drafting of this law has taken a long time and that all relevant institutions that are in the area of jitology have participated in this law. The lawyers also participated, the experts from this area participated, and they had regard to earlier laws and problems that are currently on the ground. Their opinion was that these solutions were the best solutions. In doing so, I want to tell you that fishing organisations have been involved in the drafting of this law. So, all those who have a connection to fishing and who give this issue great importance. For such a proposal and for such solutions, I must again say, it was agreed by the relevant state institutions, the Ministry of Justice, the MUP, the legislation of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I don't see why we're counting on a sequel to some of the negative events from the past. If someone has been punished, and if that deadline has passed, it does not mean that they will continue and will not be under the watchful attention of all of us who have faith enter into the proposal of this law and believe in its successful implementation in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14640	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradic, according to the amendment. Here you go. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. You don't have a chance to replicate. Thank you. On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP... I'm sorry, then go ahead, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14641	So, we don't understand each other at all, Madam Minister, past all the professions that took part in this bill, this is what you're going to sign, and we need to adopt, and we need to respond when this assembly passes, when the vote passes, it's our responsibility. I ask my colleagues – are we going to allow natural resources to be managed by those who have been punished for their violations in relation to that portfolio that will be given to the owner? Not to mention the competition at all, as it looks, the tender, it's not a tender. You have general conditions where you know how much a fishing license costs, which percentage goes to the Ministry, and you get permission from someone I like. There's nothing competitive about this tender that you're going to call. Nothing, and let your associates explain article 64 to you and let them tell you who it refers to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14642	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14643	I also want to tell you this, that this attitude of yours, about the length to which we punish someone for the abuse of an earlier period, was acceptable to us. We would accept your proposal, however, other views under this amendment are unacceptable, among other things, that part concerning the transfer of the Ministry's jurisdiction to administrative districts. For this reason, the entire amendment, including this remark, is practically unacceptable to us. So we can adopt this part of you that concerns the length of punishment for someone who has committed a crime, that it no longer be two years, but some larger period that you suggest, but simply in that we are prevented by other views that are contrary to the concept of the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14644	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14645	I thank you, so we're making progress. I suggest that the chairman of a committee that has that power, on behalf of the Committee, that this part of my amendment be accepted, does not have to be my amendment, may be the amendment of the Committee, but to prevent people who do not deserve to be managed by the natural resources of the Republic of Serbia. I think we all agree. This is where we fight corruption, fight crime, and give resources to people who don't deserve it. I appeal that the president of the Committee, with the members of the Committee, has the power to submit an amendment until the end of the session so that we can adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14646	Mr Bradic, at this point there is no way that any amendment by either the Committee or the MPs can be delivered. It can only be between principle and discussion in particular. Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, do you want to follow this amendment? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14647	I think Mr. Bradic's amendment is meaningful, but there are also from the judicial area of various interpretations. Now it depends on what kind of a misdemeanor he was. There are violations that are three months, one year probation, there are violations that are deleted from the records. I'm afraid it couldn't be done exactly as Mr. Bradic imagined. I support the idea as an idea, but at this point, I don't think we can do it properly. I think that the future of such faces should be looked after, and such events, but I'm afraid there are those who have not been caught at all, who have not been processed, those are far more. I've recently visited a river that has no fish at all, because they're dynamite, although it's extremely clean water, because dynamite, when they're fishing with a net, is slightly younger and passes through the net, but when they take to fish with batteries, bombs and dynamite, then they cause damage that's enormous. Some of them were caught in a minor offense, we won't let them, but those who weren't caught, in such situations, could benefit from the fact that they weren't caught, in far greater crimes towards the environment and the fish fund. I believe that the idea is very good, and in any case I would vote for that amendment, but since I've seen the damage to the environment, I've seen Drina whitening, not greenery, when we enter Serbia, so somewhere behind Visegrad, there's so much garbage, that the rest of the environment could be thousands, thousands of to punish, given that various PVC and other packagings, which, by the way, don't disintegrate for years, damages the environment. If we caught all the perpetrators, we wouldn't have anyone who could manage it, bossing the area. I think this law is definitely good. I thank the ministry for adopting some amendments and ruling parties, as well as opposition parties. It shows that the Ministry is not the rule of any political selection but that it was managed by what is good even the fish fund. I have to say, this morning when I started out that my uncle who was a fisherman reminded me of a Chinese proverb that says, when you give a man a fish, you feed him in one day, but when you teach him how to fish, you feed him for life. But if you teach him how to grow fish, then you feed him and the whole company. Since we import 35,000 tonnes, and we produce 15,000 tonnes of fish, therefore, that the fish fund is completely devastated, I commend the ministry's efforts to adopt these amendments only and together with the MPs, and I hope that it will adopt another one, to seduce order in this area, and to advance it so that once we can not only capture how much it takes but to make a certain industry, that even if we halvate the imports that are currently 35,000 tonnes. Given that Serbia eats only seven kilograms of fish per capita, Europe uses 26kg of fish per capita. How much we would catch that European average would have to import at least 100,000 tonnes of fish, which would cost over 200m euros. With these 100m euros that we're already detaching, we'd be on the issue of fish imports, we'd be in a deficit of about 300 million, which is inconceivable, which can't happen in a country that has so many beautiful rivers, streams, which have conditions for ponds, which have so many lakes. I think we should commend the government's efforts to the team before I see that there is no political selection by amendment. I want the Government to accept as many amendments as possible, which are good for not the ruling majority but are good for fishermen, i.e. the fish fund and ultimately good for payment, i.e. to reduce the deficit to abroad. I want to thank Mr Bradic, because I understand this amendment very well, but I also want to thank the ministry for its efforts to adopt all amendments that can be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14648	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Once again, Mr. Bradic, at this stage of the session, there is no possibility, there is only for technical editing, but she cannot get into the essence of the amendment. So there's no way to do anything. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14649	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and in the principle debate on this article, we had a grudge against the number of fishermen who are planning to hire someone who would do this job. For us, the intention is not a strong enough guarantee, and in the amendment itself, we have provided evidence of material and technical resources owned by interest in the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund as well as a bank guarantee worth 5% of the planned own investments it makes when signing a fishing area contract as a confirmation of the seriousness of investment investments. In our view, the seriousness of planned investment investments should be confirmed by giving a bank guarantee and above all as a confirmation of the seriousness of these investment measures and investment intentions. On the other hand, the Ministry's argument is that the regulation of conditions in the form of a bank guarantee would significantly reduce the number of potential entities in the competition to comply with the use of fishing areas, and certainly also favour some of them in relation to others. It seems to me that it's an interest to manage the area well. That it is of interest that whoever comes to the landlord has serious intentions both when it comes to fishermen and when it comes to financial opportunities for potential investment. In that sense, the opinion is that it would be good if there was a bank guarantee because of what should be done, and given that it is, as you yourself said about natural resources, exceptional values, that it would be good to give some kind of additional guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14650	Thank you, Mr. Karic. The word has a minister in the government, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14651	I can say for Mr Karic's consideration that it is really constructive, but when we discussed the proposals contained in the amendment, we concluded that the proposals are unacceptable for several reasons, primarily because of the fact that the contract with the users of the fishing areas is signed for 10 years. It's a long period of time. It is also a debt in terms of predictability of the necessary investments in this time period for the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, thus reducing opportunities, precisely defining the necessary guarantees. That is one question that can provide opportunity for various abuses, and that is why we have initially given up on accepting this amendment. The second is, of course, to reduce the number of potential users, potential entities, to which fishing areas would benefit from protection and conservation. In addition, it should be pointed out that planned investments do not always have to comply with the amount of funds achieved from the sale of sports and recreational fishing licences. Because of this, above all, because of the possibility of abuse and the reduction of the number of potential users, we felt that although it was a good idea and a good recommendation, we still reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14652	The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14653	I thank the chairman. We have already heard the arguments regarding this submitted amendment, and I would just add to my colleagues Ivan Karic that we all know in principle that financial opportunities do not guarantee good management, first of all, we talked about it, that is expertise and good intentions. What's very important is the control of the user in terms of their regular monitoring and state report, because it will show whether they are really doing well, with the will, with the knowledge of their, even businessmen, here we heard from colleagues, it may have some financial benefit, if it's motivated to be his profit financially. First of all, it's a professional person who's going to do it with love, who's going to bring together a good team that's going to work for 10 years, to maintain this fish fund, and the Ministry is to control whether it's really working in that sense, as is the contract signed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14654	The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14655	Do I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14656	No, just after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14657	No matter what you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14658	It must be in a negative context, Mr. Karic, so much you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14659	The rule doesn't define that it has to be in a negative context.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14660	Read the Rules of Procedure and you'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14661	Wrong interpretation, very good.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14662	So that's my call. The debate is one that is in the direction of the Parliament's dignity, one quality debate, and I don't want us to enter replicas that can direct the course of the debate in another direction. You have a chance, you have a minute, you have an opportunity to speak after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14663	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14664	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Mr. Karic, if there happens to be any negative context, you'll get word at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14665	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the Government is right not to accept this amendment, although it is my desire to adopt as many amendments as possible. This is what I mean, because the guarantee provided for by the amendment is costing. So if you want to secure a guarantee for 10 years, that guarantee costs at least 2% a year, which would certainly cost 20% of the user who would like to use fishing areas. So the guarantee banks don't give away for nothing. Banks charge it, it's like when you borrow, unless the guarantee would cost something, the user would also have to allocate certain funds to get the guarantee or if the bank accepted his mortgage. If that were to happen, it would thus reduce the financial opportunities and the extent of the financial activity that the user could benefit from in the management of fishing areas and thus reduce its capacity to be able to work and invest uninterruptedly, given that certain money would have to be invested in the guarantee, and yet the 10-year guarantee itself is almost, bankingly speaking, inconclusive, especially if it had to be deposited with the relevant financial deposit. In that case, those who use fishing areas would be in more financial difficulties than they are at this point, and we are all witnessing that legal entities are very difficult to operate, and without this provision. This provision would make their lives complicated, which would not result in the use of fishing areas, if the financial potential of the users is used to restore the fish stock and use the fishing area. I think the government is right not to accept this amendment, given that the period in which the areas are given, a period of 10 years, so 10 years, the guarantee is extremely costing, and for all of this you need an appropriate financial deposit or real estate, and therefore to the user and how it makes it difficult to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14666	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14667	Thank you. Let me say, in a similar spirit, we have submitted this amendment with a desire to fix the law, respecting everything that you have made as arguments. I haven't challenged them for a moment, or that he should be with love, or that he should be an utiologist, I agree. I thought we'd just add something that would, since it's a very important natural resource and it's a very important time period for the boss. In Article 7, we proposed, given that most of the parliamentary group belonging to the SDS-ZZS-ZS is in favour of regionalisation and decentralisation of Serbia, we have proposed, above all, that the Greens consider fees paid on the basis of authorisations for recreational fishing in the Republic of Serbia's budget, should be distributed and thus, 40% of the funds collected belong to fishing organisations organised at the level of the Republic of Serbia, operate on at least one third of the fishing areas and have at least 25% of the members of the total number of registered members in the Republic of Serbia, and 60% belong to the budgets of municipalities where fishing areas are established. The fees charged on the basis of the authorisation of recreational fishing in the AP Vojvodina budget are also projected to transfer funds to local self-government in these proportions. So, the essence of this amendment and the desire is that the fees charged on the basis of the authorisation are distributed to municipalities where fishing areas are established with the desire to end up in part and in local self-government, where these areas are located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14668	Thank you, Mr. Karic. The word has a minister in the government, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14669	I have already explained the fees of issuing, or selling fishing licences, and once again for the sake of the public, I would like to reiterate that the Ministry of Finance to comply with the provisions of the Law on the Budgetary System, which prescribed the introduction of the programme model of the budget, suggested that the removal from the draft law of the provisions on the use of compensation for the use of fisheries areas, from the special purpose account of the Republic of Serbia, which means that since the Ministry could not only receive a special dedicated account, these are all the funds that are the revenue of the budget, it cannot expect even the local self-government, or the province to be these funds to them, to say, intended and for them to be in their account. So, all the funds are the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget and from that revenue, further funds are being recovered for the needs provided for in terms of protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14670	I thank Mrs. Minister. The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14671	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, dear colleagues, Article 7 speaks of the fee for the use of fishing areas and he says the fishing area is subject to fee use. The fee for using the fishing area is the Republic of Serbia's budget. I am also a party to Serbia together, that we need to enter into serious decentralisation of Serbia and that this income should be the income of local self-government and thus my proposal to amend the member, to make use of the fishing area, the income is local self-government and can be used exclusively for further development and protection of the fishing area. If we consider that in the past period we have abolished the fund used for fishing, which was used to enrich the fisheries fund in the fishing area in the Republic of Serbia, the justification that this is due to the laws and ways of financing the Republic of Serbia, the income of the Republic of Serbia, I strongly oppose being the income of the Republic of Serbia. I think it should be money that will be used exclusively to enrich the fish fund and preserve nature in the territory of fishing areas and I think that money should belong to local self-government, on whose territory that income is also collected, so that it can strictly use it to fish and preserve the environment in fisheries areas, so I ask you colleagues to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14672	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14673	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, colleague Bradic is one of the most respected colleagues, one of the opposition's most present MPs, I would be honored to be able to support this amendment, but I support the idea. So, I am fully in favour of decentralisation Serbia, that income and authority of local self-government, not only revenues, that powers and responsibility of local self-government be greater, but Mr. Bradic, we have one problem. One area, the fishing area can cover two or three municipalities. In such situations, I don't know how income would be shared by several local self-government, one lake could be two states, let alone in two municipalities. So when the fishing area extends to several municipalities, then we don't know what municipality the revenue would be. I don't think this is practical, but the idea that part of the income belongs to the local self-government isn't unacceptable to me. So, I welcome this idea of yours, given that the state needs to be seriously decentralised, but local self-governments tend to seek decentralisation only in terms of money, but not in terms of responsibility. So, the idea, as an idea, is certainly in place, but I don't think it's enforceable, since the fishing area can be on several municipalities. In that case, there would be a general fight, and even if there were different parties in power, so if one had the support of the Republic, and the other didn't, then I can believe which fair would come about the distribution of income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14674	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14675	Thank you. I thank my colleague Risticevic for his support and I see no problem at all if the territory is divided between two or three municipalities, since it is strictly dedicated money, according to those who deal with the budget - colored money, it is not a problem whether two-thirds will go from one municipality, one-third of the other municipality. The important thing is that money can only be used for the fishing area from which it is collected. It doesn't matter if someone buys younger or less, or whether they fix the environment, it's all one thing, it's important that those money can't be used differently. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14676	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14677	I thank Mr. Bradic again for the good idea, but we have this problem. Someone's gonna grow younger, someone's gonna hunt. Since fishing depends on income, we would be in a situation where one municipality releases younger ones, so that it raises fish, and if another is working on the territory when the fishing area is on the territory of more municipalities, then every municipality would try, this wouldn't be in the spirit of what the law wants. So, every municipality would try to make as much revenue as possible from fishing, so that there are as many catches as possible, so they would come into a position that one municipality grows fish and helps the number of fish and fish produced in the fishing area to be as large as possible, and another municipality that because of its incomes is trying to issue as much permits as possible, so that as many fish as possible to make its income bigger. Also, we get geography. So it can happen that the lake and the fishing area are on the territory of three municipalities, that one coast is so swampy, the other one is less accessible, that one is more accessible. In a situation like this, I don't know how to evenly share income. I think it's a good idea, but it's not practical.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14678	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Mr Dejan Chapoo. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14679	The Honorable Chairman, Minister, members of the ministry's representatives, we have just responded with this amendment because of the introduction of centralisation into the area of regulation of the fish fund, and also because the Vojvodinas are taking the funds that the small one had. So in Article 7 paragraph 3. The proposal for a law on protection and maintenance, the use of the fish fund, after the words "income comes from the AP Vojvodina budget. "The point is deleted and the words "and used via the provincial budget fund for environmental protection" are added. The proposal for a law on protection and maintenance, the use of the fish fund provides for a significant change in relation to the applicable law, as it abolishs the possibility of compensation for the use of the fisheries area on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, is to be used through the provincial budget Fund for the protection of the environment that Vojvodina has. There is, in the AP Vojvodina, a budget fund for environmental protection in the province's Secretariat for Urbanism, Construction and Environmental Protection, which has an annual budget of around 24 million dinars. It is a dedicated resource used for five years to co-finance the programme of users of fishing areas in Vojvodina. Fishing companies have been satisfied with these resources and we know that these funds have always been spent on purpose. By abolishing the possibility that part of the fees for the use of the fishing area in the territory of the AP Vojvodina should be used through the province's budget for environmental protection, the Fund remains without the means, I have already stressed, amounting to 24 million dinars per year. The abolition or reduction of funds in the area of environmental protection is in direct contrast to the requirements that come from European Commission experts in the process of joining our country. Chapter 27 on the environment is one of the most complex and demanding chapters not only from the point of view of providing adequate professional capacities, but also from the aspect of providing the necessary financial resources, so I would ask you to pay attention once more to these funds that are intended for Vojvodina, because I do not know how we will meet those commitments in these pre-accession funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14680	Thank you, Miss Papua. The word has a minister in the government, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic-Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14681	I've already spoken on the subject of compensation from the funds of the sale of fishing licenses. I just want to add one more time that these angers will also be spent on purpose. The difference is, you're proposing a fund. The Fund has been abolished under the Budgetary System Act and the new funding model, which does not mean that the funds provided in this way will not be recovered and there will be no use for the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. So it's not meant for these funds not to be returned to where they were taken from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14682	Thank you, Madam Minister. The amendment proposed to add a new name after Article 7 and Article 7a was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Environment Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14683	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, considering and taking into account the new approach of looking at climate change, which speaks of it now and unequivocally, and this has also been accepted by the UN by all relevant scientific institutions of the world, says that due to the apparent climate change of the elemental disaster and in some cases of environmental disaster, more and more will happen. In this amendment, we wanted to add to the obligation to provide insurance and reassurance of fish stocks from the damages caused by environmental incidents, disasters and natural disasters. I can say that I understand your argument, the explanation that we have received in the text that the amendment is not accepted, but our wish was that natural resources such as the fish fund should be secured and resecured in the event of damage caused by environmental and elemental disasters of larger proportions. It is also necessary to use the resecuritisation approach for EU resecuritisation institutions in which we have already joined the agricultural insurance community. It seems to us that this would be a good way, given that we have indeed had disastrous consequences in the past few months. We will probably get a report on the Committee on Environmental Protection which is an effect on biodiversity and what is damage by biodiversity, primarily fish and river biodiversity, given that many rivers were out of their troughs and that practically people found in their backyards the most diverse fish after the flood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14684	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic-Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14685	The intention of proposing this amendment is certainly good, but here I will brief you on why we have taken such a stand to reject this amendment. First of all, we had in mind that the adoption of this amendment would additionally burden users' resources for the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, since for each authorisation, the user is obliged to pay 10% of the license fee if it comes to recreational fishing, 15% compensation for commercial fisheries, 20% of the value added tax and 5% of the license value in the name of the authorisation for fishing organisations. In this regard, we also had in mind that, as it moves on to the programming of the budget, these funds are the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget and can certainly be planned from these funds, as you state in your amendment, which are issues relating to insurance and resecuritisation, for which, again, the Ministry of Finance is responsible, on which the funds of the fisheries use compensation are co-financed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14686	Thank you, Madam Minister. The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 8th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14687	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Article 8, is in a chapter that speaks of a concession to the use of the fishing area. In line with all that I have talked about and what the gro of these amendments are about, and it is about decentralisation and transfer of power to lower levels of government, this time to the county chiefs, I have proposed that in Article 8 the "Minister, or the competent circuit body" be replaced by the words "Command of the Management District", which I think we will achieve one quality in the management of natural resources of the Republic of Serbia and by including more people in decision-making and management to obtain a guarantee of quality and guarantee that these fishing areas will be in better shape than in which they are now. Since Mr. Chairman said that the Committee on Justice has not found the legal faults of this amendment, I think that the ministry could accept this amendment, to allow people who are directly with these fishing areas and who know them best, to decide who they will give to and control and monitor, along with all those bodies that have the Ministry of Inspectorate. I believe that the National Assembly should accept this amendment because there is nothing wrong with the fact that the non-members of the district, i.e. their services, are given the authority to lead the process to assign the fishing territory and also to exercise control. At the very end of the line, they also know best who can come forward and what kind of people they are reporting to manage the natural resources of the Republic of Serbia, and I think the ministry can accept because there is no legal framework that prevents the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14688	Thank you. The MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14689	Article 9 refers to the temporary reduction of the fishing area. Article 8 spoke of a competition for the fishing area. I think the Chief of Staff is supposed to get transferred powers. It does not have to be the original powers of the ministry and that it is the professional service that will call the event, because it is not a tender, there is no competition. We know what these competitors or future users need to meet except for that plan that is prescribed, who can make it and who can write it and design it, about maintaining the fish fund. There should be a number of employees in the announcement and one employed with VII/1 college of certain professions and experiences. Everything else can compete, as far as we've seen from this discussion, whoever it is, it's important that two years have passed since the jurisdiction of the verdict if he's committed any economic offense or crime against the environment. Please, so that we can, as much as we can, prevent possible abuses, and that's our primary goal, and I guess the intention of all of us, to allow the county chiefs of the county to manage on behalf of the state natural resources from their territories, because that's why we're going to warn all the negative consequences. You will admit, it is impossible for a few ministry employees, no matter how long they work, no matter how professional they are, to know all fishing areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with everything the ministry is doing from which they originate. I don't doubt Mrs. Minister's good intentions at all, but the Minister is very brief and you probably, if you don't have a fisherman in the family, you don't know what we're talking about right now. You know from the materials, but we fishermen who have been dealing with this for decades, it's been behind me for decades, we know what the problems are, and we know who can best contribute to the preservation of the fish fund, so please accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14690	Thank you. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14691	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, somehow, in all previous governments of the multi-party system, such a member is being pushed through and discreetly given to ministers. It may be really early for our amendment, but I hope that in the orderly system, as we strive, this is no exception. All previous governments have these discretionary rights that the minister has, but when the system works, it is not necessary for the minister to make an ad hoc decision or temporarily step down, or, let me say, under the assumption that he is willing to terminate the contracts. I hope that practice will change over the next period. The idea of the Greens was just to reduce the discretionary rights of the minister. This, of course, is no exception. These are all the previous laws. I hope that in the years to come and in the years to come we will just fight that there are no exceptions, but either we have a rule that works equally for everyone, or we have a system that is equal to all citizens and citizens of this country and criteria that are equally respected when any problem is or any request or any, any, I say, modern-day application for some need, to say, there are regulated rules. "Greens", in general, in political mentality are not those discretionary rights, and it was only a desire to draw attention. This is going through all the other laws, I say again, in everything, almost all the governments, since the 1990s on here. We just want to try to think that we can do it a little differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14692	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14693	I believe that Greens would also be an excuse, which we did when we proposed a member like this. The justification is that the practice has also shown justification for the existence of such a provision, primarily for the benefit of the fish fund, but also for the purpose of improving the management of the fishing area. Therefore, I believe that the Greens also justify our thinking and justification for this article to remain as it is in the bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14694	Thank you. The amendment to the name of the member and member of the 10th was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14695	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 10 says – the user is obliged to clearly mark the boundaries of the fishing area within 30 days of the date of signing of the contract of entry into the use of the fishing area. Article 2 – the user is obliged to clearly mark the specific habitats of the fish within 30 days of the date of receipt of consent to the fishing area management programme. Article 3 - the minister is closer to prescribing ways of marking the fishing area. Why did I propose to delete this? For purely practical reasons. This existed in the previous law and those tables that were placed for the marking of the fishing area did not once implement two, three or a few days and disappeared, either broken or removed or stolen. In consultation with people living by the river, the lakes, which have been doing this for years, I have concluded that it is completely unsupervised to set this up, especially making it an additional cost for the users of fishing areas. The explanation is that the removal of the obligation to mark the fishing area cannot explain what the prescribed tables are stolen and destroyed. You know, there's a big difference between when things are watched from the fifth floor or when they come down to the river or when they live by the river and by the river. So if we want something to do with its practical application, if we want something to do with life, and we want it to be with this law, then we have to throw out everything that has nothing to do with practice and logic. We can document that there is also a board the minister will draw or write himself, but in practice it does not exist, it cannot. That's what the inspection services agree with, that's what fishermen, organizations agree with, that it's not... and that a user licence should be introduced in which the fishing area will be drawn, which is then in the interest of the fisherman. When he gets that, he'll have that map and he'll know where and what it looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14696	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Mr Dejan Chapoo. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Mr. Dejan Chapo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14697	I should like first to thank you for accepting this amendment and recognising the constructive intention and desire of the LSV parliamentary group to improve the existing bill. What we wanted to achieve with this amendment is that, since the bill has defined that the fish fund is good of general interest, we think that this segment that is related to the preservation of the fishing area is quite important, as well as the person who will be doing the job, I mean the fisherman, given that he should pass the expert exam, should get a license from the competent ministry, especially because of the authority of the fisherman. We thought we should improve these conditions a little bit when it comes to the selection of persons who will be a keeper, so besides that the person is not convicted of some of the crimes as a member of an organized criminal group, crimes against the economy, crimes against the environment, criminal acts of taking or giving bribes and criminal acts of fraud, should also be added to the crime against property. It is believed to be a criminal offence that has caused property damage, theft, robbery, fraud, extortion, blackmail, evasion, confiscation and damage or destruction of other people's property. We think that this is how responsible work should be done by a person who meets all these conditions regarding not being convicted of any of these crimes that we've listed. Once again, I thank you for recognising our idea of trying together to make a better text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14698	Thank you. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14699	Thank you. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about amending Article 11's position. It says in the law - besides the fishermen, the user of the fishing area can hire persons - volunteers, who do fishing work as an escort to the fishermen. I emphasized this as an escort because this is how we lose the sense of volunteers that are extremely important to us in the environment. They often mean more in some space than the laws themselves, and if he were accompanied as a volunteer, he is not there to drink beer with the fisherman, but to make some of his contributions and his desire to protect a certain space. That's why the amendment predicted that it would not be as an escort, but that it would simply be in co-operation with the fisherman. What does that mean? In order for the fisherman to then be able to send him to a certain part, see something, inform him of what's going on there, and thus that volunteer role would be adequate and fully justified. Here, if he should be escorted to go with the fisherman, he doesn't have any influence or anything else he can do on his own. This isn't about him taking over as a keeper or having powers. It is only that he can in some way contribute and help the fisherman to get better information and adequately respond to a particular problem on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14700	Thank you, Mr. Bliss. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14701	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will be very brief. I'd like to support this amendment. I only support him on behalf of the Greens, and I think this is an amendment that, first of all, we in the Greens understand, corresponds to our political mentality. The very essence of volunteering is to be with the fisherman, to see what's done. Maybe one day that volunteer will become the fisherman himself, maybe learn to love and protect nature in a better way, and I understand it. I don't understand this amendment that way and I just want to support this amendment as a representative of the Green Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14702	Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14703	With regard to the proposal that volunteers do their own work as fishermen, I must say that we are really happy to accept volunteers and they are really welcome in the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, but they are not official persons, not persons that we can let be alone in doing business, but they are welcome and needed, but only in the escort of the fishermen. For this reason, this amendment has not been accepted, but it does not mean that we do not need volunteers and that we will not gladly accept them to engage in the tasks that this law provides for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14704	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14705	I get the impression we didn't get along so well. He doesn't do volunteer work on his own as a fisherman. He's doing it in collaboration with the fisherman. Only those trusty jobs that a fisherman can do to him, and he normally won't let him take the responsibility of his job. So here's the difference between being accompanied by a volunteer or a volunteer being able to do something with a guard's order without the fisherman being present. This primarily refers to information, does not refer to its operation on the ground. That's what this is all about, and without real information, and that fisherman can't get to all sides, if we're going to achieve the role of volunteers exactly that he in some way gives his contribution and helps the fisherman to do his job better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14706	Thank you, Mr. Bliss. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 14th amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic submitted. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoje Bradic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14707	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, Article 15 speaks of the obligations of users and in the spirit of all the proposed amendments, which I have had so far with the aim of transferring power to the head of the district, here in the work that speaks in position 11. - to report to the Ministry about the death of fish in the fishing area. I propose that – to inform the head of the management district, the Ministry or the competent regional authority on the death of fish in the fishing area, and what I consider to be more effective, faster functioning, better monitoring and monitoring, protection and further development of fishing areas, decisions should be put down to the level of the district, because only by transferring power to lower levels of government can we get better quality control, better management of fishing areas, and what is very important, better development, respecting all specificities of each fishing area. I think you should accept this amendment, because it is in the spirit of improving the management of fishing areas. I don't see why you'd be so convulsive about centralizing everything, or something called control over the conduct of some decisions or the execution of damages done or whatever happens in the fishing area, because here you need to inform the head of the management district, who should know what's going on in the territory of his district. I think we all agree. I don't see why it's the Ministry's discretionary right. I don't know how many, Madam Minister, you have employees at the Ministry. According to your obligations, you have one 3,000 people, because they are capable of watching both Dimitrovgrad, and the fishing district, and Subotica, and Sombor, and the channels around Belgrade, they can see anything, absolutely anything. Let the district chiefs be informed of what's going on in their backyard. You're not going to take care of the river Nishava anymore than we are Nishlia, are you? You won't. You care as a minister, and we care because we live in that territory and because we go out to our rivers and lakes in that territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14708	National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, MPs Ivan Karic and Aleksandar Senic, the Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection, adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14709	I thank you, Your Honor. Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, this is Article 16, which was very important to us during the writing of the amendments because it regulates some important things. I thank you for accepting this amendment. We think some things are further defined or clarified. It's a question of active and passive legitimacy, who can be the prosecutor and the prosecutor in the damages proceedings brought to the fish fund. It is a matter of access to justice, i.e. protection of the right to compensation for damages and the question of the purpose of the funds achieved on the basis of compensation for damages. We think it was important and we obviously agree on this. We've worked hard and hard on this whole law. Maybe it's a good thing he went into procedure in a regular procedure and we could read it, get ready for it. The substance of the proposed amendment to paragraph 1 was the need for a legal standard to clearly prescribe who is the holder of the right to compensation, who has an active legitimacy, which is the user of the fishing area, i.e. damaged, as well as who is passively legitimate, i.e. who can be the defendant in the proceedings, i.e. You're a pest. Any doubts about the situation of pests and damages are removed in the proposed way. What we are in the same amendment, in paragraph 2, is clearly prescribed that the right to compensation for the damage done to the fish fund is achieved in the proceedings before the court, etc. The reasons for accepting this amendment are identical. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14710	Thank you, Mr. Karicu. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14711	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 16 speaks of the compensation of damages and he says the legal person quotes – the entrepreneur or the natural person who does the fishing contrary to the provisions of this law or otherwise harms the Fish Fund, it is necessary to make up for this damage to the user of the fishing area at the request of the user. A request for compensation shall be submitted by the user in accordance with this law to the person found to have caused damage to the Fish Fund. The next position says – the user is obliged to receive funds based on the compensation of the damage referred to in Article 1 for the purpose of protecting and improving the Fish Fund, which is reported by the ministry, i.e. by the competent regional authority. I suggest that it be written to add the word “head of the district” i.e. it would report on what the district chief, the Ministry, or the regional authority concerned, is reporting if it is the territory of Vojvodina. Why? Because the head of the county can daily monitor how this damage is resolved and how compensation and compensation goes and how it goes, I don't know about fishing, and whatever it is done as damage in the fishing area, while from the Ministry, you can only see it from the Minister's office or through the inspector through paperwork, and there are people here who can monitor and see it daily. I think it's much better and more efficient and where much faster and better quality can be compensated for the damage done to the fishing area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14712	Thank you, Mr. Bradic. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Mr Dejan Chapoo. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become part of the bill. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Mr. Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14713	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, once again to commend you for understanding, for accepting the amendment of the LSV parliamentary group once again, and you have shown that you as Minister of the Ministry and we as MPs are here to work together to get to the best of the text of every law. What we wanted in Article 17 concerning the fisheries management programme to achieve it is in Article 17. The draft law lays down that the user shall, no later than one year from the date of the signing of the fisheries use contract, obtain consent to the fisheries management programme and adopt and submit an annual management programme in accordance with the fisheries area management programme. These programmes shall be subject to the consent of the Minister, i.e. the competent regional authority. In view of the need for the user to submit amendments and additions to the fisheries management programme, depending on the results of the monitoring, and to obtain consent to the same minister or competent regional authority. We thought it necessary to provide for a report on the monitoring carried out except for you to be delivered to the Ministry and to the competent regional authority, of course to the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina, and I thank you once again for accepting the LSV amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14714	Thank you, Mr. Chapo. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14715	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the 19th annual programme of fisheries management contains, under one – assessment of biomass and fishing pressure on the Fish Fund based on annual statistical indicators of catches of fishermen and fishermen. You know, fishermen like to boast that they've caught a big fish, bigger, bigger, but to burden them with some red tape and they need to administer and write what they've caught and how much they've caught, I'm afraid there's nothing in practice. Here we once again come into some conflict between what can theoretically stand in the law and what is in practice even applicable and logical. Points 2 and 5 of this attitude say – allowed annual, daily fishing by species and what is important, the programme of recreational education, fishermen. If we commit to education by law, nothing will be achieved. We already have education from the Association of Sports Fishermen, it goes to the youngest, they have special schools, etc. and this is about something that should be like other countries in our environment and in Europe, which is to introduce a test for fishermen. A fisherman should be obliged to acquire certain knowledge and be responsible for such knowledge. What happens in practice? A certain fisherman, for example, catches a fish he couldn't take out at some point and then comes to the court where they tell him to - you caught a carp, and he - I don't know what a carp is, I caught a fish. We don't legally oblige him to know something, but we leave him with the opportunity to take it out and we can't do anything to him. If there was an exam, if there was something that he was going through and he got confirmation for it, he could no longer be justified by his ignorance of anything else. Education is something else. It can exist and it doesn't have to, it's aimed at better knowledge in the personal interest of the fisherman how it's going to do it, and this is about the law. That's why I think it's better to do how the whole of Europe does it, to have exams for them and to set them up, it's not hard. They already know it all, they'd just get paper based on which they'd be responsible for what they're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14716	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14717	The new law that is now at the stage of the proposal is intended to regulate the entire system, which means that fishermen are given certain rights, but also to point out what their obligations are. One of the obligations of fishermen is to report their catches and for these reasons this amendment has also been rejected. We must respect some adopted laws and respect certain obligations that we have made through the adoption of other laws. So we cannot release fishermen from these obligations, since we have adopted the Official Statistics Act, the 2011-2015 official statistics programme. On the basis of the legal documents already adopted, we have an obligation to comply with the rules of these legal documents and in such a way as to carry out research on fish catches. With that in mind, of course fishermen must report their catch. These data will be presented in the light of the statistical yearbooks to be delivered and which are important further for the development of the annual management programme for the fishing area. Also, these are the obligations arising from our negotiations on Serbia's EU accession. So these are the data required from us by the Directorate-General for Statistics of the EU, the European Environment Agency, etc. So our goal is to provide them with rights, but also to be responsible for the obligations that we make by adopting certain laws that I have already stated. As far as education itself is concerned, I don't know why we should run away from the education provided for in this bill. I think that this is a good solution because in the management of fishing areas, the Fish Fund, we need to establish an efficient, integrated system that includes these educations that we talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14718	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14719	I don't know what our goal is. If our goal is just to satisfy the form, then that's fine. Then we can make statistics based on what the fishermen write. And they can write whatever they want, and we'll get one completely wrong statistic. These data are completely unfavourable and they can't serve us at all for anything serious, which we would now be reporting to Europe on on the basis of data written by fishermen. That's a little unserious for me. It's not about someone insisting on some big change right now, it's just about throwing out what's illogical. We're going back to education. I didn't say he shouldn't have education. Education exists and now, education will exist and the Association of Sports Fishermen is conducting it. They have children around them, they teach them, they take them to the river, it's all nice and nice. But that doesn't have to be regulated by law. The law can regulate the exam, something which is binding and which is an interest in raising something to a higher level of knowledge and in some way perfecting the whole area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14720	The amendment proposed to add a new member's name after Article 21 and Article 21a was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14721	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, this amendment concerns the organisation and establishment of the Republic Council of Fisheries Organisations and the advice of fishing organisations in fishing areas. We have something that may not be a practice, something that you have said in some previous reasons that, let's say, so far, it's not a practice and it's not a practice so far, we're here to change some bad practices and to improve some things when it comes to this area and every other area. In any case, the area or areas where you're the minister are very complex, very important and they have to change in practice so far, because we have a practice of burning fields, so we have a practice of burning biomass, but it's not a good practice. That's why we think we need to change some practices. We wanted here to include a little more advice from fishing organisations, to sort of get involved in the process. They will not assume any responsibility of the ministry or, in this case, any responsibility of the minister, but to be involved in making certain decisions, acts, such as the Regulation on the allocation of funds for the grant of recreational fishing permits, belonging to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, on programmes for the protection and promotion of the fishing fund and reports on their implementation. Such advice and such organizations can be useful in terms of giving suggestions and what is happening on the ground, and those people may know sometimes really better than people who are in the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14722	Thank you, Mr. Karic. The word has a minister in the government, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14723	The amendment is not accepted for the simple reason why this proposal for a law is not the establishment of advice and other fishing organisations, but I would like to say that we and how important and significant fishing organisations are, and that is precisely what we show by the law's proposal that we have provided the possibility for fishing organisations to compete and to be users of fishing areas, i.e. their fishing areas to be used and managed. I'm taking the opportunity, since I have time to respond to Mr. Blazic's amendment. I just want to say that I want to point out that when it comes to the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, the fishing organisation, we and all the participants, all the actors in the process of this job regarding the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund must be partners. We must cooperate together and meet all the requirements set before us, and even these requirements that we have not learned and which are not particularly close and dear to us, simply, we must move in step with time and slowly achieve the qualities and habits of the countries that have these issues far before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14724	Thank you, Madam Minister. On Article 22, the amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14725	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 26 where Article 26 paragraph 3 is changed and reads - the fishing is carried out by indigenous species of fish, except in the case of depletion of hydromellation channels which can also be fished with white amur as an autochton species. Namely, what's this about? The white amur is a famous fish that cleans the canal net and in such a situation, if we have a white amur which is not an indigenous species, if we have it in these channels, then no means are needed to clean the canals. We don't normally have enough resources for this type of activity, so I think that the usefulness of the white amour that causes the cleaning of the channel network can save the government, the state, a lot of resources, and in terms of channels, the flow of these channels is far greater and thus prevent possible floods that can happen because the channel network is abandoned. The white amur is a fish that is not an indigenous species, but I think at this point, while we don't have the resources, I believe there are some international regulations there, but while we still don't have to do that, since we don't have the means to clean the canal net, that in the sewers can be fished and the white amur canal network. Since it does not take much to convince MPs who understand about fishing that the white amur is an autochton, a non-autochthon species, but which is very useful at the moment, given the general poverty in which the state is located and the inability to allocate certain means to clean up the channel network. It's obvious and visible, especially in Vojvodina. I think the government should accept this amendment, but if that's not possible, of course, my God, what do we do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14726	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14727	With regard to this amendment, I would like to point out that, in accordance with national legislation and ratified international conventions, the Republic of Serbia controls the introduction of indigenous, or foreign species into free nature. With all due respect to the reasons that MP Risticevic states when justifying his amendment, I would like to say that, regardless of the understanding of the same, the position of the working group and the ministry is that hydromellation systems are not isolated systems and therefore the problem of their maintenance must be addressed by some other alternative methods, and in this case we cannot make exceptions because of the previous, as I have stated, of the national and international conventions, when it comes to issues in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14728	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ivan Karic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14729	I thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, Madam Minister, I just wanted to give this amendment a moment's support. It seems to me that biological measures in the fight against floods are important and that we should use much more, such as a respected colleague and explained his amendment, biological measures than hydrotechnical measures, because it is a trend in modern societies in water and in defending against floods, especially in channel networks, it is important that biological measures are dominant, and then we only resort to certain hydrotechnical procedures. Only in this sense are "Greens" ready to support counterpart Ristic's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14730	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today and after 16.00 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws and other acts in the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The 26th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Branislav Blazic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blažić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14731	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this amendment is very similar to the amendment that Mr Risticevic submitted. It's about the position of Article 3 again. The amendment I have formulated – the fishing of natural fishing waters is carried out by indigenous fish species. What's the point in that and what's the explanation? The use of indigenous species is necessary only for open and interrelated fishing waters. The closed eco-systems, the type of accumulating lakes of smaller surfaces, are unstable biological continents. In practice so far, it has been shown that the introduction of certain indigenous species, such as tolstolobik, has been very effective in preventing the eutrophicisation of these fishing waters. The absence of these species from certain accumulations indicates negative consequences, and in a few years, fatigue will also occur. The maintenance of the canal system is very effective through the insertion of the amur, and if we avoid it now, how are we going to destroy these water plants? There's only chemistry left, there's no third. Is it better to enter chemical resources now to destroy or use it over indigenous species? Citing the international union, we should discuss it a little bit when this is the only reason we are now rejecting this amendment and amendment by Mr Ristic, under the provisions of the International Union Act on Nature Protection - the place of indigenous invasive species controlled exclusively in isolated conditions. Well, that's exactly what we're looking for. We're not asking it to be in natural waters, we're asking it to be in controlled isolated smaller lakes. That justification to refuse such an amendment is still not logical and I think we should accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14732	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14733	In the waters of Serbia, 110 species of fish have been recorded, and that is 51% of European biodiversity when it comes to fish. The obligation to preserve the expressed and present biodiversity shall be imposed as necessary. Unfortunately, in our waters 23 species are indigenous, i.e. foreign fish species and over the past ten years significant resources have been allocated to destroying these species of fish, so that our national biodiversity is preserved. When it comes to hydromeliorating channels, which you mention and which you are talking about in the context of this amendment, but also Mr Ristic's amendment, according to the classification of natural and artificial fishing waters established by science and profession in this area, it is said that these canals are not isolated ponds, which you mention, but are already related to natural waters. In some cases, there can certainly be a mix of these waters. Therefore, this is practically the division and what the science and profession in this area have accepted and therefore these amendments have not been accepted by the professional working body of the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14734	Thank you, Madam Minister. National MP Milan Novakovic, after the amendment, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14735	I would like to express my sincere support for the proposals of these two amendments and Mr. Marijan Risticevic and Dr. Branislav Blazic. Since we are really in favour of the preservation of total biodiversity, these two amendments of the two proposings are just showing us that we are doing in a really natural way the sustainability of the eco-system in the fruit of the plant and animal world, so I personally think that these two amendments should be considered. My support for these two amendments stands from the aspect of sustainable biodiversity in general, which we all advocate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14736	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Novakovic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Branislav Blazic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blažić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14737	The legislator says it is not allowed and uses the permanent word "not allowed" when it comes to the conservation of the eco-system of fishing waters and the release of harmful and dangerous materials, so waste is not allowed. You know, Serbia is full of waste, especially on the banks of the river. That's why I think we should ban it. The only thing I'm asking is that instead of saying "not allowed" it is made illegal. It means that the disposal and disposal of garbage on and near fishing water is prohibited. To forbid, it has far more weight than is not allowed. So nothing really changes. The same idea we have and the legislator, only it's more adequate for one of our Serbian understandings of what we can do or cannot do. That's why I think if we really want to stop it, we have to go with certain bans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14738	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 30th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14739	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is again the introduction of an indigenous species of fish into fishing water, except for the white amour into hydromellation channels. The fact is that they have grown up with water plants and this leads us to the need to maintain them. Since we don't have enough resources, regardless of international conventions, I thought that because of the functionality of all these channels, in terms of their use for deforestation and irrigation, this problem was pre-warned and savings significant funds in terms of maintenance, if any. I understand those international conventions that we signed, but I think we could have spent a little bit of time, until the state strengthens us, until we're worth our while so we can do the sewers with other means. This way, the white amur fish was a means of cleaning and maintaining the channel network, which will not be in the event of a failure to adopt this amendment. I say again, I have an understanding for the government if this is not feasible because of international conventions, as is Mr. Bradic, who had good intentions. If this is consistent with some other rules and norms, of course, I have an understanding of that, but the intensity of my amendment was to do this kind of fish with the cleaning of the canal net, given that it is extremely good at doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14740	Thank you. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blažić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14741	I thank the chairman, now we return to these alochton species. This isn't a disputed 30th member. The difference is the only thing he says here is not allowed in, bringing alochton species into fishing water, I'm asking that it be banned. That's the difference in concept now, and it's not a problem, it can be, it can be. That's how it's happening now. But to return again, to that previous amendment, I got the answer that allotted species should not be inserted into water, liquid water. No one asked for this amendment, we were talking about the closed eco system. We weren't talking about hydromellating channels and their connection, but we were talking about completely closed accumulations, that you had no contact with other waters. We were just talking about these species, that there is a need to biologically clear that space and how significant it is. We were saying one thing, and we got an answer to something completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14742	Thank you. The 32nd amendment was filed by MP Marijan Risticevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Environmental Protection Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14743	I thank the government for accepting this amendment. As regards the Committee which has not accepted the amendment, this is because the technical correction of the amendments I have submitted did not reach the Committee in time. As far as I know, the Committee has good intentions to accept this amendment. It is that a company can fish in a commercial manner if it has one employee, professionally. We added that it must have passed a course or an jitology exam, so it must be professional in the area of fishing. In the second part of the amendment, it was also put in place that another person may be on safety grounds when performing commercial fishing with a fisherman in a boat. I have put up with people who are engaged in business and sports fishing, because especially in commercial fishing, fishermen often do fishing activities in very difficult conditions, wind, waves, so that a person can be exposed to various dangers and risks of life when performing the fishing work. I thank the government for understanding that when doing this extremely difficult job, sometimes in very difficult natural circumstances it is necessary with a fisherman to be another person for security reasons, because two can far more resist any water trouble than one person alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14744	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14745	I thank the Honorable Chairman, dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here we wanted to say, that again a little, when we talk about money in the economy, we often forget about one great value, you pointed out here a few times, that's the value of environmental capital or the value of natural capital. In recent decades, and also in recent years, our economists have largely forgotten and we have to put into the economy the category of natural capital, we have to evaluate it and we have to introduce it into expression, calculate the value of some natural capital, some natural area, some natural resource. We wanted the term "licence value" to be replaced by the term "money expression", i.e. the price of the permit, to say, insists on the previous opinion of the Nature Protection Institute and the Environmental Protection Agency on the value, i.e. the cost of using the Fish Fund's resources to ensure its sustainability. We feel that economic evaluations are not enough and that the sooner we need to train ourselves for what we are expected to do. Maybe we're not in a team right now, let's say, in that possibility or we're not yet prepared, we're still studying the neoliberal economies from the end of the 20th century, and we need to prepare for a green economy, for sustainable development, for what awaits us. I really thank you, it's not always like this, regardless of our differences, it's not always this good a debate. Besides Minister Mihajlovic, you may be the only minister with whom discussions are on a professional level. Maybe it's because you were a colleague of ours, so we understand each other well even though we disagree. I probably won't answer again. Thank you for your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14746	Thank you, Mr. Karic. The word is by professor Dr Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, minister of government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14747	Also, I want to thank you for your constructive proposals and constructive ideas, and on this amendment, I just want to say that the termology, the termology term "price of the licence" is replaced by "the values of the licence". In principle, when we talk about your amendment's intentions, I want to tell you that it is our intention that the value of permission for commercial fishing on different fishing waters be reduced to real and justified frameworks. Anyway, thank you for seeing that each member has been well-analyzed and that you wanted to really help us make the bill better and better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14748	Thank you, Madam Minister. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14749	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, proposed by the SVM amendment to the 38th article, requires greater control of commercial fishing during the network. There is no greater problem with pressure on the fish fund than insulating stem fish at the time of the network. Fish should be allowed to extend their species uninterrupted at the time of the grid and thus remain numerous and healthy offspring. It's in the main period since early March until the end of May. The nests are of strategic importance for survival and development, i.e. increasing the number of fish and its population. That is why we have proposed adding a new position to Article 38 – every type of commercial fishing during the network period is prohibited, which is set by the user management programme. I know this issue has been regulated to other members of the bill, but I still think that by accepting this amendment we would only step up measures to preserve the fish fund. Dear Minister, I hope I've convinced you and expect you to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14750	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a minister in the Government professor Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14751	As you have also said, the questions set out in this amendment are regulated by the provisions of other members, Article 25 practically says – obliging users of fishing areas to determine certain fishing waters or their parts for special habitats of fish for biological needs, i.e. the bridge. Any kind of fishing and any activities that interfere with the bridge shall be prohibited in these places. Penalties are also prescribed for all persons who do not comply with the provisions of this article and of this law. So, honourable Members of the People, we have kind of accepted your suggestions through other members that I have already listed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14752	Thank you, Madam Minister. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14753	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 40 speaks of general conditions and says – recreational fishing can deal with a person based on the permission to perform recreational fishing, a person under the age of 14, can perform recreational fishing, without the permission of one stick in the presence of a person who has a license to perform recreational fishing. The Minister is closer to prescribing the tool mode, etc. I propose that this member be changed and that it be read – fishing can be done by a person based on a fishing permit in the following text – a fisherman. A person under the age of 14. has to go through mandatory free education, so-called. a small fishing school, for which it will be certified or trusted by authorised fishing organisations. After obtaining this confirmation- a person under the age of 14 gets a free fishing licence. The minister is closer to prescribing the way, tools, equipment and means of fishing. I have received your reply that says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is not clearly defined what kind of fishing this term refers to, given that the bill provides for and specifically defined recreational and commercial fishing. Also, this law does not recognise authorised fishing organisations, in terms of the subject matter of their authority. I don't think you should have allowed this, Madam Minister, to be explained like this. I ask your lawyers and co-workers at the ministry - which fishing is possible without permission? Is it possible to fish without permission? Whether he's economical, or what you call sports, recreational, or, by the way, Nisha fishermen will always be sports fishermen, they'll never be recreational fishermen. We're not training tennis, we're fishing, and I think you should return the name sports fisherman, because it's been going on for 65 years, ever since the Union of Sports Fishermen of Serbia was formed, so I don't see why they're changing it into recreational fishing. If something lasts, and people accept it, there's no reason to change it. But, well, you matte most of it and you can do it. But, I don't understand, what else we asked for education to be done, I spoke in principle debate, in fishing associations, for the simple reason that there are professional people there, there are personnel. What your ministry colleagues say they don't recognize authorized fishing organisations, we're changing the law to be authorized. So, the intensity of all these amendments is to return the Union of sports fishermen to their place of origin. If it can be in Croatia, Bosnia, Macedonia, Slovenia, why can't it be in Serbia? Why does someone have a problem with the Council of Sports Fishermen of Serbia, and why not take advantage of the capacity of the enthusiasm of the people of the Sports Union? What's the problem? What's the problem? Is the Association of Users of Fishing Areas stronger than the Union of Sports Fishermen? It's not. There's 50 of them, these are 50 grand. Let's go out to meet and not put out those original sports fishing boats, or we'll let the owners of fishing, i.e. those who manage fishing areas form their own sports organisations and then say that we have a fishing alliance of Serbia. We don't. It's not Serbia's Fishing Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14754	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14755	Now the honourable MP has raised several questions, which are not an integral part of this amendment. I'm only going to answer that part that was proposed in the amendment, first of all this first part. Our answer for which it was not adopted is that it is "recreative", the concept itself, "recreative fishing" is termologically consistent with international terminology and there have been a lot of amendments, in terms of whether it is recreational, sporting, competitive or what, and we have responded, means that we have tried to accept internationally valid terminology. As for this second part, when it comes to fishing organisations, I say again, I want to point out once again, so the fishing organisations are our partners, I don't know why someone would be the goal of handing over the department's jurisdiction to fishing organisations, there's no need for that. We are therefore partners in a joint task, and our task is to protect and sustain the use of the fish fund. I would also like to say that the Constitutional Court's decision abolished the obligation for a fisherman to be a member of some fishing ornamentation before buying his license. Therefore, payment of the mandatory membership fee has been declared by an unconstitutional decision, as it conflicts with the basic constitutional principles. And that's practically our answer to the rejection of the amendment that you suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14756	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14757	Just a few sentences. So, I would ask you to read the Law prescribed by the Republic of Croatia. I believe they also love their own waters and love their natural resources and they managed to build the Union of Opposite Fishermen into the law. What kind of law we make where it is impossible, and it is possible in Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Macedonia. I'm just asking you to use the legal profession to illustrate this problem and solve this problem. You won't achieve anything by shutting down this law Union of sports fishermen, because, without funding, the Union of sports fishermen can't exist. I repeat, the Union of Sports Fishermen is a nonprofit organization, working on enthusiasm, both of good will and desire. They have an obligation, which they do, that everything they collect from membership is returned to nature. Business organizations, you want to explain to me that "Serbiasum", "Serbijavod", are more professional than the Union of Sports Fishermen for Education, or for fish management. Excuse me, please, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14758	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14759	We think our proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund is far better than those proposed and adopted by our colleagues in Slovenia and Croatia. I wouldn't deal with them, but what I'm trying to say is that we're convinced it's a good law and that's why we support it. I thank all those who support him, and I thank you for criticizing certain provisions, because you are giving us the opportunity to re-analyze everything that can be disputed. Among these controversial issues is the Union of Sports Fishermen, they are important and important to us, but they are practically under the authority of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. So these questions that you've raised here, which concern them above all, are questions that you should refer to the competent ministry that is responsible for them, means the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14760	Thank you, Madam Minister. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 41 of the amendment by MP Arpad Fremond to the Government and to the Committee on Environmental Protection. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14761	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honored Minister, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, proposed SVM amendment to Article 41 of the bill refers to a license for recreational fishing. In the previous period, unfortunately, the negative effect of the so-called so-called effect has been found. unique authorisations for recreational fishing. Since applying a single permit throughout the Republic of Serbia from the expected effect, i.e. the growth of the number of fishing licences sold, we can establish a drastic decline in the sale of licences. According to my information, about 100,000 permits were sold before 2010, now around 60,000 permits were sold. For this reason, we propose to reintroduce, in addition to the unique, annual permits, user licenses and cross-user licences, which would be significantly cheaper, and more appropriate to buy the power of society, as well as the needs of fishermen. Most fishermen fish at a maximum of tenkm from the place of residence, which they certainly do not need a single permit, but a user's license would be much more appropriate. By returning to the user licenses that exist and in all countries in the environment, we would significantly raise the sale of licences and thus the income of users intended for the development of the fish fund. Since user and inter-user authorisation is an option rather than an obligation, users who estimate that this type of authorisation does not suit them are not obliged to issue it. So, what we propose is that, in addition to the annual authorisation, the user can issue an annual permit for recreational fishing valid on the fishing waters he manages. Users may agree to issue an inter-user annual fishing water permit where interests exist. Of course, the minister is closer to prescribing the content, the patterns on our proposal and the esteemed minister, I urge you once again to reconsider and accept this proposed amendment at the request of numerous organisations and recreational fishermen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14762	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14763	Among the user licenses were subject to several amendments, and I answer to the honourable MP, Arpard Fremond, and therefore I answer to others who have submitted a similar amendment. I want to say the reasons why we did not accept this amendment because of you, but also because of our viewers, we did not accept them primarily because by introducing them, we would allow users to negotiate with each other and make contracts according to their personal desires and personal judgments. Also, the introduction between user licences would include additional fees for fishermen when using fishing waters from other areas, i.e. from other users. It would be possible for the contracts to favour one in themselves and lead to an unfavourable position of other users, and this would certainly result in a huge dissatisfaction of fishermen and, therefore, they would certainly address the competent ministry to solve their problems on the ground and their dissatisfaction, which would certainly contribute to the deterioration of our capacities in the basic objective that we should invest in the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. In addition, the competent inspectors in the field of protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, of course, would not in themselves be able to fully carry out effective inspection controls in accordance with the needs. The introduction of a new type of authorisation would also require the correction of a number of members, other members of this law. Correction of new, i.e. the introduction of new criminal provisions, provisions that would regulate the division of profits between beneficiaries of fees and taxes, etc. So these are all the reasons why we have not accepted this amendment as well as the other amendments relating to the proposal, the introduction of this type of license, with all the respect for the arguments that you have made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14764	Thank you, Madam Minister. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blažić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14765	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we'll be here for a while. I think this is, let's say a key member, one of the key members. The annual permit was introduced by the famous group of Srđa Popovic from DS by the previous law, and that permit is only one, let's say, minor damage to the environmentality that this famous working group and the time it caused Serbia. The annual permit implies that a fisherman pays and that he can fish in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's nowhere in the environment. You can justify it any way you want. It doesn't exist. What does that mean? That 99% of our riders, by bike, should pay as if they were going from Subotica to fish in Nis or Leskovec to fish in Palic. That doesn't make any sense. These people are, they're existentially not able to afford it. The annual permit is six thousand for him to leave his house with two wooden sticks to deal with recreational fishing. What's that supposed to mean? Why we insist on something that was introduced and not good, and the reason for the introduction, as the famous working group did, was to increase the number of fishermen and thus increased from 120,000 in 2010 to 60,000 in 2014, twice as much. Normal. Now, the logic of the state, because the logic of the user is that if it's more expensive, it'll take more money. Well, he won't, he'll take less money because less people will pay for it. It's some kind of thinking that's probably already proven in practice. Those users who are unable to support the situation financially because they either have too many employees or because there are not enough rivers in their waters, cannot justify their existence by giving an annual permit with some price that is absolutely not justified for today or for the possibilities of our man and given the crisis we are in. So, especially when I'm saying that there's nothing in the environment, why would they do that? Why don't we take a look at that fisherman's interest, the common man? Why do we care about keeping him home? Why don't we just let him out on the water? Why are we putting him in a position where he has to hide, hunt him down, punish him, why do we do it? Isn't it logical that there's a user's license in some environment where he, with his material possibilities, will want to show his love for that fishing, to allow him something, to this man, not to tell the unfortunate man who has to live where he lives? I'll tell you how I've changed that full member and here it's working, I'll read it a set, so the complete member has been changed because the concept he's not justified. The licence for recreational fishing, for the calendar year, the annual permit D2 for one day, the daily permit, or several days, and up to seven days a multi-day user K1 and an inter-user, we will call it MK1, an annual license for recreational fishing and a permit for a noise-issued user who bears the costs of printing the licence, that is, paragraph 2. The annual recreational fishing authorisation shall be valid on all fishing waters of the Republic of Serbia, except in the fishing area in the protected area. The user shall issue a D2 licence in the units of local self-government referred to in the contract of entry into the fishing area. The permit is purchased in the place of residence. The user can also issue a user's annual permit, so we'll stop there for a while. The annual permit is not lifted. Who wants to buy an annual permit, let him buy it, and who won't? Why do we have to commit it? He only wants to buy for a few days, or he only wants to buy for one of his districts where he lives. We can't just make him buy an annual license so he can fish in the territory of all Serbia, and he won't, he wants to fish only on his lake and nowhere else or can't go, he can't go physically, there's no money, there's no car, there's nothing. So I think at least I made it kind of clear, let's go back to what was before 2010, when it wasn't annual, when it was user-friendly, when it could, when it was looking maybe a little bit more for those fishermen' interests, Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14766	Thank you, Mr. Blazic. The word has a minister in the government, Professor Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14767	Thank you. I just want to say, Mr. Blazic, I'm surprised by your discussion on this amendment for one simple reason why the proposal for this type of fishing licence, the type we proposed in the bill, is a proposal that practically took place by fishing associations, and I want to inform you that we were actually supported by all the fishing associations and all the participants in the public debate. True, my associates reminded me that there was also one in the group of participants in the public debate, one group that did not support it, but this is a group that makes up 5% compared to 95% of those who supported and proposed this type of license themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14768	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14769	Madam Minister, I know exactly who supported this public debate. I know who these people are. I know what kind of users they are. They're users and directors of some of these organizations that have 20 employees and can't be based on this, if there's only a user's license, to finance themselves, and somewhere they're users of some part of the fishing space, so to speak, which doesn't provide them with a material possibility. Is it our goal to meet these failures, so to speak, companies that do so, to keep them and ten employees, or is it our goal to provide 120,000 fishermen or 200,000 fishermen, and thus to gain greater revenue in both the budget and those who work quality? We will not protect those who are unquality. I know very well in the public debate who was up for it, and I know who was against it. We once need to side with those who are of quality, not those who are unquality, so it doesn't matter if there are 90% or 10% of them. That's the point. We're not going to meet the fishermen, it's number one, we're going to meet some firms that are not able to operate and try to through the price of the license or by imposing on the fishermen to provide the purpose of their existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14770	Thank you, Mr. Blazic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14771	Thank you. Here, let me check in on someone else's amendment. This time I fully support you, Madam Minister, absolutely, and to say to an esteemed colleague that those who support this method of payment are all fishermen of Belgrade and south of Sava and Danube. So, absolutely all the fishermen, let me repeat, from Belgrade, around Belgrade and south of Sava and Danube, advocate a unique fishing licence. Since our colleague talked about profitability and non-profitability, let's agree to respect the amendments that bring Serbia's Sports Fishing Union back into this law and they work without profit and it does not need extra profit and these organisations are not obliged to provide profits, as do private people we want to give to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14772	Thank you. Your task force has no more time. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14773	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, respected viewers, I will support Mr Blazic's amendment because between the users and the fishermen, I will stand by the fishermen, although I do not fish, but I love to eat it and love to keep company with the people who are beside the water for health reasons. As I understand it, Mr Blazic proposed this kind of amendment for these very reasons. I do not understand some of my colleagues who say – this model is supported by all fishermen south of the Danube and in Belgrade. This can be said by the person who contacted every fisherman in the area of Belgrade and south of the Danube and interviewed them, polled them or they may have voted, as in the elections, to define themselves for one model. As I understand it, there is one minority of users who support Mr Blazic and his amendment. Mr Blažić was quite convincing when he said that there are users who are quite inefficient. Thanks to these users, I support Mr Blazic's amendment, knowing the type of user it is. So these are the ones who left the fishing areas and those who are responsible for today being one of the responsible, not the only culprits, which is why we're importing three kilos, two and a half kilos of fish today. So, out of 50,000 tons, we're importing 35,000 tons of fish. If our customers had been baptized, if they had done their job in an appropriate way, had they not had excess labour, had there not been early machinations and speculation, today our fishing area would have been richer with fish, and I think that fish imports would have been much smaller and this poor country wouldn't have had to allocate so much resources. In any case, knowing Mr. Blazic, without the thick arguments he would not have stood for this much for the amendment he proposed. I believe it's the product of his serious conversations with certain users of the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14774	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a minister in the government, Snezana Bogosavljevic-Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14775	In consultation with our co-workers, we have concluded that we should also point out this fact, in order for the adoption of this amendment to affect the implementation of the law in practice. Practically, we could hardly establish an entire system to function properly. In some ways, we would reduce the students we had when we proposed this law, so that we would draw your attention to the technical details that can be the ones that will make it impossible to enforce the law in practice in the way we imagined it, and we thought it would be to ensure maximum possible protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14776	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had that system by 2010. That system proved to be good in practice, and then we changed it. Now we can't go back to something that was good, but we'll stubbornly support something that's wrong. Belgrade fishermen and south of Sava and Danube are not for an annual licence. They're users, but the fishermen don't. Secondly, as far as the law and my amendment are concerned, I leave the possibility for user licenses and leave the yearbook that was. So, you're just making choices, you're not conditioning anything. The possibility of selecting every fisherman – can buy as well as so far a year, so let it go all over Serbia, each day change the place where it will fish, but let us leave the possibility and an ordinary man, the one who goes on a bike to fish, which fishing within its area, some mile from home, that he does not have to pay six thousand. Make it less, because he's six thousand to pay, he won't catch those six thousand for 15 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14778	Thank you, Mr. Bliss. The 42nd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The environmental protection committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14779	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I don't have much time, I'm just gonna strictly talk about the amendment. In Article 42 following Article 4, a new position shall be added, which reads: ‘Only authorised fishing organisations may issue licences’. Here's what I meant by that. Therefore, recreational fishing licences can best be granted under local self-government exclusively accredited fishing organisations, in accordance with this law, as professional services that are best known in the area of operation in the area of fishing waters, and which only have adequate expertise on the state of management of fishing waters in the area of their operation. In order to enable any user to issue such licences, intricacies, indifference and lack of uniform records, abuses, chaos in the fisheries fund management system in the fisheries waters of certain territory, the possibility of obtaining licences as well as those which do not meet the criteria of fishing societies. The control of the fishing society over the licences shall ensure this. I got an answer why my amendment is being rejected. He says: “The amendment is not accepted for the reason that its acceptance would violate the concept of law. It would also withdraw the amendment of a large number of members in the law relating to the payment of compensation control, the control of the dedicated spending of the funds obtained from the sale of licences and others." I don't understand how this law controls dedicated assets as permits when companies and the public sector do so, such as "Serbian" and "Serbishum". What competence do they have with fishing waters, employees of the "Serbian" and the "Serbian", except for the narrowly profiled staff they should, by law, employ? On the other hand, we have an association of fishermen who have known it for a lifetime and who know it much better and better. How do these people know and know, and they don't know and they can't because they're someone who's in love with water? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14780	Thank you. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoje Bradic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14781	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 43 states that the user is obliged to conduct the training of fishermen, the minister is closer to prescribing the scope and content of the education programme referred to in Article 1. I propose that this be deleted and that Article 43 reads: “The training of fishermen is carried out by authorised fishing organisations; the minister is closer to the scope and content of the education referred to in Article 1.” The reason is that the current legal minimum on education is not respected, because it was legally responsible for the user of the fishing area. He was not interested in conducting education, nor did he have personnel and equipment for it. I note that the National Fisheries Union has over 70 authorised trainers, 18 selectors and coaches of the national team, 180 judges and over 500 sport associates in fishing, and it is perfectly normal and reasonable for education to be entrusted to the National Fisheries Union, because it has all the resources necessary to implement it. You answer me that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the legislator considers that the adoption of this amendment withdraws the amendments to a number of provisions in the law governing education, as well as the way in which the funds are provided for this purpose. In addition, the Ministry has no insight into the professional capacity of fishing organisations to conduct education under this law. And you have insight into the "Serbian" and "Serbishum". They understand fishing as I understand space flights. I think this amendment, I apologize, but it needs to be accepted, because let's not trust education to have it only in law and paper. Let's do it by people who know and know and can do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14782	Thank you. With pleasure, the word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14783	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Bečić, the Honorable Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I hope you don't mind this one impatience shown by the MPs of the Progressive Party every time someone from the New Party comes forward. I think that is where some relations are positioned, which is good, but it seems to me that Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, that you too today, so here is the amendment debate on these draft laws, you have terrible obstacles, above all, in the speeches of the MPs of the Progressive Party. I don't know if it's just about this bill or if we can look a little wider at the relationship between the coalition, between the two parties, etc. So you must remember that New Party MPs have announced in the context of a principle debate that we will vote in favour of all these draft laws that you defend. We have especially praised one fundamentality, dedication, seriousness in writing the bill, and also those reasons why such a bill should be adopted, but it seems to us that the amendment to Article 43 may need to be considered, in order for the adoption of this amendment to be even better. Here, let me try to explain, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, so let's see if we can agree on that. In Article 43 you wrote - the user is obliged to conduct the training of fishermen. Then we have a second position that the amendment should remain as it is. And the amendment says that Article 43 should be changed, though, we have a change, in fact, it is not, in point 2, that the first position should be changed and said – the training of fishermen is carried out by authorised fishing organisations. I then, as some methodology here requires, went back to Article 2 because you are in an explanation why some amendments did not accept us as MPs to Article 2, which contains the meaning of the term. Here, I found it like this. says three expressions are very important to us. One is a user of the fishing area, the other is a fisherman and a fishing organisation. I think we have a case here that you should accept this amendment. For example, it says – the user of the fishing area is a company, a public undertaking or another legal person whose fishing waters are subject to use. Then, he says, a fisherman is a person who deals with recreational and sports fishing. Now we have a third term that we find interesting here because of the amendment, which is proposed to introduce it. It says – fishing organisations are associations of citizens who gather recreational and sports fishermen to popularize fishing, competition organisation, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, training fishermen, their organisation and records. I, by the logic of things, seem to notice a strong relationship proposed here by Mr Bradic, who says – if fishing organisations are involved in the education of fishermen, or fishermen, what would bother them in Article 43. The bill says the training of a fisherman is carried out by an authorised fishing organisation? It seems to me that some logic is directing us to it. Then I read your explanation, as carefully, thoroughly, as you wrote this bill. That's the order, I think, in our discussions and work here. You say - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the legislator believes that the adoption of this amendment withdraws amendments to a number of provisions in the law governing education. Then I'm the one who concludes it like this. If that is true, and if the proposed change is good, why should we not accept that change, despite the fact that it requires a change in the various parts of this bill? We're not going to do it because of one complication to ignore quality, are we? I think we need to work out some quality here. I see the Progressive Party approves, for example, Mr. Giric. Or, in an explanation, you have added here in one paragraph, says – the ministry also has no insight into the professional capacity of fishing organisations to conduct education under this law. Since the amendment foresees that the training of fishermen is carried out by authorised fishing organisations, then I conclude, there would be insight into professional capacities, as that education would be conducted by authorised fishing organisations. On what grounds would they be authorized? Based on proven expertise, respected gentlemen and Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14784	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14785	I simply cannot refuse to respond to such an inspired explanation of the reasons for accepting the previous amendment. With all due respect to all the reasons and with an extremely constructive approach to resolving the issue of education, I would like to say that we believe that the solution that we have proposed in this bill is better. As a ministry, we will fully control the education programme that we have provided for members of this law, but this certainly does not affect the possibility of fishing organisations also conducting certain educations. It's simple, we reject the amendment for one reason, with everything we've stated, and for reasons that we don't have the means. We can't provide resources that we could define for an education that would be conducted by any fishing organisation. Therefore, we propose that fishing organisations be involved in the process of education, but without legal obligation to ensure ourselves that the law is implemented as we have imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14786	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Pavicevic, you have no opportunity for replication. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14787	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully read this 43rd article - the user is obliged to conduct the training of fishermen. Article 2 – The Minister shall provide for the scope and content of the education programme referred to in Article 1(1). What is missing from this article and why I will vote in favour of Mr Blazic's previous amendment, which reads - Article 43. - deleted, is that Article 43 does not stipulate that a fisherman is required to attend education. So this is one-sided. We have users – obliged to conduct the training of fishermen. What if the fisherman doesn't want it? What if the fisherman might be exaggerating? He says, "I'm sorry, come here any minute, please, show me how to hang a worm, how to fish, etc." I think a member of 43rd is almost impossible to implement. I don't know what Mr. Blazic thinks about it, but his amendment he didn't explain, Article 43. - It's wiped out. It's the closest thing to a healthy logic. If Mr Bradic's amendment were to be adopted, the user would again be obliged to conduct the training of fishermen. He remanded it to be done by fishing organisations. I don't mind, but I don't know who's gonna pay for it. I don't think fishing organisations are gonna do this for nothing. On the one hand, the user would collect money from permits, and on the other hand fishing organisations would be exposed to certain costs in education. I think that the interpretation of Mr. Bradic's amendments, that the ministry is right, but I will vote for Mr. Blazic's amendment, since there is no obligation for a fisherman to participate in education anywhere, to attend that time when users will educate potential fishermen and explain to them how to fish, how to hang a worm, how to hang a bread crumb, how to throw a hook, etc. I think it's a little bit and inconclusive, since the fishermen are going to change their minds and not all of them are going to be in the same place, that there are no appropriate classrooms, there are no appropriate devices to conduct this education. I think it is best for us to delete this Article 43, in line with Mr Blazic's amendment, since there is no obligation for a fisherman to attend such an education. In that case, the user is powerless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14788	The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14789	The esteemed chairman, the respected minister, members of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, as I was mentioned in Mr Pavicevic's presentation that I agree, of course, with the explanation of the minister that this amendment should be rejected. I don't know why MP Pavicevic concluded that I agree with him. I think, once again, that this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14790	The amendment to the name of the member and member of the 44th was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14791	Mr. Chairman, I have submitted an amendment to Article 43. Proposal for a law to delete Article 43. You didn't give me your word. Can I talk about that amendment, and then we'll talk about 44?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14792	There's no amendment for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14793	Was it a mistake or wasn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14794	Your amendment isn't here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14795	To Article 43. I have an amendment to Article 43. He's not here. Well, there's one in this text. I don't know how you didn't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14796	Explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14797	Yeah, I'll explain it, and then we'll move on to another one. The thing is, as Mr. Risticevic said, he mentioned the amendment, I don't know how you don't have it, he said that I proposed an amendment to delete article 43. Article 43 reads – the user is obliged to conduct the training of fishermen and now the minister prescribes the scope and content of the programme, etc. I believe that fishing organisations are the ones who need to educate their members. In view of this sports and competitive prefix of these organisations, education consists primarily of topics of fishing equipment and competition rules. The only element of education, for which this law could possibly, when it comes to fishing, be interested is the ecological and jitiological class. The bill does not provide for an exam for fishermen, which is an obligation in a large number of European countries. I was talking about this exam, and it would be completely justified, but since this law has no jurisdiction in sports organisations, I think this should be deleted, erased by this member and left to the sports fishing organisations that education has defined in the Sport Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14798	Now we move on to Article 44. So, the amendment to the name above the member and member of the 44th was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14799	Now we come to what we talked about. It is that the fisherman is obliged to keep records in a unique form. Now we're going to give him a pattern, which he needs to fill out, keep some records, which I think is a burden on these people, and secondly, we're not going to find out anything from those records, especially we're not going to get the truth about what's going on. During the period of validity of the current law, the catch records of fishermen proved to be a total non-compliance, which was introduced in 2010. At the end of the year, very few fishermen buy licenses, it is impossible to buy an E2 form and thus meet the legal obligation. Similarly, users are unable to meet it. At the time of the sale of licenses, the deadline has already passed, fishermen mostly fill out forms or at all, if they have them at all... In order for the license to be sold, the legal permit at least fictitiously met, as distributors we're forced, that's what users say now, they fill out their own records, and that way I have the wrong analysis of the fish fund. Without a unique record of Serbia's fishermen, this record cannot be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14800	Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP Dr Blagoje Bradic submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14801	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, article 45 speaks of the record, as my predecessor spoke, and he says, for our viewers' sake, "The fisherman is obliged to keep track records of the catch in a unique pattern. The catch record shall be submitted by the fisherman to the user at the end of the current year. The user cannot issue a licence for the current year to a fisherman who has not submitted the catch records for the previous year. The catch records of fishermen shall form part of the annual report, etc.’. “I propose that the words “fisher” be delivered to the user at the end of the current year” replace the words “authorised fishing organisation to the user at the end of the current year a catch report”, which means that within the framework of fishing societies, fishermen will fill those records and then the fishing organisation will hand it over to the user at the end of the current year, and because the user of the fishing area, to return to education, does not need to know anything about fishing. He's a man, he's a business, he's a business, not a nature lover. He rented to make some profits and meet certain conditions and gets to manage the natural resource of the Republic of Serbia. Fishing sports organizations make up people who out of love, enthusiasm deal with that sport. I repeat, sports, not recreation. They will fill out those permits, these daily catches and deliver to the user to have an insight, I don't know, to calculate how much it takes, by fish or what it takes to do with that fishing water. Do you expect a fisherman to go to Serbia for water in Nis and deliver a report? Half of them don't even know where Serbia's water is. If he doesn't deliver the report, he won't get a chance to buy a license next year. Please accept this amendment, because I think it is meaningful and justifiable.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14802	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14803	In short, on the amendment commented by the previous speaker, MP Blazic, I would like to say why we have defined ourselves for this solution. We have defined ourselves for the reason that the user may in some way be bound. We oblige him not to give him permission for next year unless we get the quality data we expect and ask for. How can we achieve this work if we trust a fishing organization? A question we don't have an answer to. For this very reason, we have turned to the user himself and we expect good cooperation with the users, i.e. the fishermen, and when it comes to collecting these data, we are not fond of and dear to many of us, but statistics simply have to be respected and to provide the data that requires adopted laws and documents related to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14804	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think my colleague Bradic is in a big mistake. He's always suggesting some unscheduled solutions, so I can't vote for his amendment. Therefore, in Article 45(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: – the fisherman is obliged to keep records of the catch in a unique form. The 2nd position proposed by Mr Bradic to change the roles of the fisherman is delivered to the user at the end of the current year. Instead, Mr Bradic suggested that it be changed and replaced by words – the authorised fishing organisation delivers the data to the user at the end of the current year. Now, Mr. Braddick, you have a problem with attitude three. – the user cannot issue a licence for the current year to a fisherman who has not submitted the catch records for the previous year. In the situation where you have proposed item 2, the least you should have suggested is that paragraph 3 is deleted, because if paragraph 3 remains and paragraph 2 is changed, then the fishing organisation will have an obligation to provide records, and unless the user does so cannot issue a licence for the current year of the fisherman. So, they're going to get killed by a fisherman. So, you had to adjust attitudes 2 and 3 to be acceptable, so that those who did not understand your amendment well enough could vote, if I did not understand correctly, I would ask you to explain to me how we will then implement attitude 3, if we adopt the amendment to Article 2 of this Article 45? I think Mr. Blazic's solution to the record that this member is deleted, I think it is closer to a possible vote and I will certainly vote in favour of Mr. Blazic's amendment, since the records delivered by the fisherman can be completely incorrect, arbitrary, etc. It's just another obligation that could be worth less than the paper on which that record was written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14806	Here you go, Mr. Braddick. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14807	Thank you. I've got a little bit more time now, so I'll try to be more plastic, make you understand me better. So if we leave the user of the fishing area to get information from fishermen annually, and they mean Sundays, whenever he's out fishing water, because it's impossible and inconclusive for the simple reason that they're people who don't have a passport, who don't. It's their job. How do you expect someone who is in the “Serbian” or “Serbiasum” to control whether a fisherman has recorded something or not after the fishing has been completed? That's impossible. It's absurd. The only thing that can be done is a fishing organization, something by the system of how hunting organizations work, if you've ever been hunting or you know how to hunt. You're also going fishing. This is more meaningful, that the data fishermen bring to their association, and then if they should already have that statistics for the purpose of teaching and studying and filling that fish fund, then to hand over fishing companies to the user for whoever you choose to be. That's what they deal with daily, and that user's doing something along the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14808	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14809	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my question was simple. If we adopt this amendment in paragraph 2, what about paragraph 3, which again obliges the fisherman to, if he does not deliver, the user cannot issue a licence for the current year to the fisherman who has not submitted the catch records for the previous year. If we change attitude 2 and give that obligation to the fishing organisations, what about item 3, if the fishing organisation does not do so, the fisherman will suffer, because the user cannot issue a licence for the current year to the fisherman who has not submitted the catch records for the previous year. If we remove the obligations of the fisherman in Section 2, that it does not have to do so, then it may suffer in item 3, since it has not delivered it to the user, the user may use attitude 3 and delete it, or not issue a licence for the current year, because it has not submitted the catch records for the previous year. Therefore, it is very ungrateful to adopt this amendment to paragraph 2 if it remains point 3. I therefore recommend that future amendment promoters, mistake and myself, make sure that when they propose an amendment to one position to take care of the next position that prescribes the punishment of the fisherman unless he delivers it, if we transfer the records to the fishing organisation, then the fisherman himself has suffered neither guilty nor due. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14810	The amendment to the name of the member and member of the 46th was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to the name of the member and member of the 46th was submitted by the MP Dr Branislav Blažić. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 52nd Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14811	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, we have tried through this amendment, as well as with the previous ones, to make certain things more precise. In particular, if the draft law is adopted in Article 52, paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 if they remain in this form, they essentially bring into conflict this law with the provisions of certain other laws. Especially regarding the use of profits. Therefore, if it remains this inaccurate, it can be interpreted, without eradicating these members, that the company that takes the natural good for use and achieves a certain income after the settlement of the legal obligations to essentially violate the provisions of this law. This is one inaccuracy and inaccuracy which, by eradicating these three, we consider unnecessary attitudes to be in order and fully in agreement would be with other laws, which define the business of companies, which in practice could lead to significant problems. Each company shall be established with the aim of obtaining profits and, if any of these profits is obtained by illegal or unlawful reselling licences, then there shall be other state authorities that will determine, in particular, inspection operations, but also others. There's no need for this thing to be this formalized, as you have defined in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. We believe that by eradicating these views, the matter would be quite clear. There would be no such thing as this transfer that your government often does. Sometimes it defines too much things that already exist and that are completely clear, and like in that previous amendment, if you remember, it doesn't define the details at all. Sometimes I get the impression that a lot of different people with different legal views on matter work on the very provisions, and that's what you see in the text. I'm kind of more inclined to make things very precise, but here, let's say, you have a situation that if it were interpreted like this, it would turn out to be an illegal gain after a settled legal obligation, and that's where this member is unthinked. So I ask you to respect our proposal. I could talk a lot more about this, not to bother the Assembly or the citizens, but I think that here, let's say, without any effort or political background, you would adopt the opposition's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14812	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14813	I just want to make it clear for a moment that we agreed on the essence of a member of the law itself. We're thinking the same thing, and now we're in a different position, or we're explaining differently the inaccuracy of the formulation that is given. You think your amendment is more precise, we remain in our opinion that our formulation of this article is quite precise. I want to say that the point is that there is no difference in essence, and that our goal is to practically tell this member that the funds from the sale of licences should be spent on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, and we want to say that the bill does not prevent users from obtaining and profit that is shown through the salaries of employees and raising the material and technical equipment of users. Our goal is certainly to better control the spending of the funds obtained from the sale of licences and I think that with the proposed legal solution, with Article 52, we have achieved that we will achieve that in an efficient and rational way to spend the funds provided in this way. In any case, I'm glad that the essence is similar, and now this formulation, it's important that users and those who apply the code understand, and we won't be vain, so now, whether or not the amendment is accepted, let's keep it at the National Assembly, which should be declared in the decision-making day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14814	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14815	Dear Minister, we understand each other, of course. But you see, this is not a simple technical reflection or whatever it is you say. If the provisions of this article were to be interpreted, and I, for example, conclude that so, and I believe that many who are going to deal with this business will be forced to conclude, that he has to do so by force, I don't mean literally, to come up with a way of spending the means of purpose remaining as a surplus, which is why the nature of any company involved in this activity is at stake, because, by interpreting these problematic attitudes, he is forced to figure out how he is going to spend it now, which brings him into an unequal position and is brought, except in a conflict with the Business Society Act, he is brought into a major practical problem. What's that gonna look like in life? So, he's following all the accessories. Everything he does is in accordance with the law, he's left with a surplus, he has to figure out to spend it on purpose with what the company is dealing with. What difference does it make and where it is, if you will, what I personally feel sorry for, and that is called capitalist logic by which the surplus goes to whoever founded the company. Why else would he do this work? That's where you and I don't understand each other. How do you mean in practice to remove this situation? Unnecessarily, in this law it is necessary to build on something that will in practice be inapplicable, which will, in turn, cause a number of problems, because the competent ministry already has all the mechanisms for controlling the work of the users, and in this sense, does not fulfil the obligations undertaken by the law of the sanction provided. I think these three attitudes are completely unnecessary, inapplicable, they'll create problems and I think that probably, without any intention whatsoever, I think it's done, you create a potential confusion and problems in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14816	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14817	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister with Associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on the amendment to Article 52, which envisions erasing positions 2, 3 and 4, I would like to support the argument given by the Government, which was just presented by the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. What is the well-being of this law, among other things, is precisely the intentional use of funds and control of the use of these funds. As regards dedicated use, of course, all the funds collected from the permits should be dedicated to the management of the fish fund protection and the sustainability of the use of the fish fund. Of course, there is no end to the category of profits, but that profit is shown through employee salaries and what should be improved in some way by material and technical conditions. As for the control of the use of funds, of course it's a special commendation of all the laws, and this law, which I'm sure, we'll bring unanimously. The most effective protection and control of these funds is precisely if these funds go to a special account. Because of everything I have stated, I believe it is indeed a lot of arguments that the amendment to the 52nd National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14818	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14819	I accept that most people think the amendment should be rejected and that's fine. I understand the distinguished colleague. But I don't understand if we've heard enough in this situation. So we were very precise. There are state authorities that determine both crimes and violations and inspections and the police and the prosecution and the court, which are tasked with preventing abuse in the work with permits. So we already have what the state provides, in terms of protecting citizens' rights and state interest. It's already working and there is. You now, by introducing out of the good intentions of these provisions, not only do you double something that already exists, but you make it impossible to interpret the meaning of companies. That's what I'm talking about. There's no politics here, believe me. I'm just trying to make this thing accurate, without a direct match of the paragraph on each other, where they're collapsing with each other. This can be knocked down, I tell you in a legal sense, not a political one. When someone says "non-intentional spending", I immediately think of some institutions that are not listed in the proposal for this law. And you know it very well. These institutions exist in this country, some over 200 years. Are they effective, are they at the level at which the legislator came up with their projection and saw their future work, well, I'm not sure yet. Are they doing their job the best they can? I'm not sure. But the practice has shown that if you say that when the legal obligations are settled, the surplus must be determined on purpose, and you are aware that this is contrary to any law on companies, you create an unequal position on the market, you create a confusion in practice, and you create possible problems. Because when you say that, and you mean abuses of licenses, that's what inspection services do, please. These are unnecessary three attitudes, inapplicable and pointless. And that's all. So, don't go to it right now – it should be rejected because they're precise. They don't know. On the contrary, they bring confusion and collegiate with other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14820	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14821	Let me just say for a moment that it's good to develop such a sharp controversy when it comes to the means obtained by selling fishing permits. I think you're right, colleague Stefanovic, when you say it's a lack of understanding, that is, we understand differently and understand the concept of who you're talking about. In this article and the proposal for this law, we are talking about the funds or the money provided on the basis of the sale of fishing licences. We do not enter into the full business of a company, i.e. the user of a fishing area. So, we control this part of the funds, we believe that we have the right to do so, and that is our goal, for the funds of these permits to be at a certain percentage of the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget and for purpose use in terms of protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. In the past, there's been a lot of regrets that no one controls those funds. What makes our proposal so controversial again? What makes someone think we don't need to know where these funds are going? So I think this is just a different concept of the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14822	Thank you. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 56 of the amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Novakovic submitted to the 56th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 65 of the amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I am now setting a 15-minute break to bring certain positions in line with the amendments to the draft law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production. We'll continue work in 15 minutes, better put it 14 hours and 40 minutes. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The eighth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Finance and Security – YOU HAVE received amendments submitted by MPs: Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Korać, Miodrag Nikolic and Marijan Rističević. By written amendments to Article 9, MP Marijan Risticevic withdrew. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic and Ivan Korac. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law held that the amendment was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14824	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the few fellow Members of Parliament, our amendment to Article 4 of this Law provides for the obligation to enter into the contract and the period of payment, the number of war and the date of the war if payment is agreed. That's one change. In point 4, we suggest that the erasure of the mortgage be deleted as a means of security. The explanation of why we are asking for the obligation to enter the payment period and the number of wars is quite clear, since every loan and credit agreement, if it contains the wars, must be the period of payment, the dates of the war, the number of wars, and how much each war is worth. So we don't understand at all why the ministry refused this amendment with an explanation that it could be entered, because other things were left to be entered into the contract. We think this is an important thing and it must, if it's agreed to pay off the wars, that it has to be found without being able to stay as a possibility. Also, what we were saying and in the principle debate, we think that putting a mortgage on some land or on a household is putting farmers in a very unfavourable position if things like the witnesses we witnessed happen again this year, after the floods when big damages occurred. Farmers did not have the possibility of returning the loans, but they were not able to keep a roof over their heads and provide the consequences of the damage. We think that providing this kind of help over the mortgage is bad, and that's why we asked that this article erase it as a possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14825	The word is made by Prime Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14826	With regard to the amendments tabled by a group of MPs from the Democratic Serbia Group, I just want to say briefly, we did not accept this amendment for the reason that Article 4 of the law provides only the essential elements of the agricultural production financing contract. In accordance with Article 2(2), the possibility to supplement, in addition to the mandatory prescribed elements of the contract, other elements agreed by the parties concerned. Contracting parties, therefore, farmers on the one hand and processors on the other or the bank, can agree on new elements. These new elements must be an integral part of the contract, but such a member, such a formulation provides the possibility, for example, that, in cases where there is mutual trust in the security fund, they are neither agreed nor vice versa. There is a possibility that, when agreed by the parties, the means of security will be a mortgage on the real estate, and this means of security will certainly be entered into in the contract. Therefore, it is a matter of agreement between the parties, farmers, or processors and banks on the other hand. The elements are entered, and Article 4 of the Law provides an opportunity for any additional arrangements between the two parties in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14827	According to the amendment, the word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14828	I was just saying, I don't know how if they make a deal, how they pay off the wars, how it can be a irrelevant thing. So I don't know what it is if the amount of the principal or the interest rate here is listed as important, how the war, the number of war, the period of payment and the date of the war aren't important things and that it's left to be possible. It's simple, if it's like an agreed payment to the wars, we think it has to be in this financing contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14829	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic and Ivan Karic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14830	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have proposed that within the SDS-ZZ-ZS Group, we have proposed that Article 6 be deleted and that, as we call it, Article 6 poses a great danger to agricultural producers because these members are given responsibility for circumstances beyond their influence, making their position significantly difficult. The purpose of the law is, as you said, to stimulate agricultural production. This way, a qualified member implies an objective responsibility of agricultural producers, which represents a higher degree of responsibility than subjective and favours trustees. Moreover, agricultural producers are thus responsible for the state's incompetence, and it can happen that, rather than the state, they are injuring creditors. We have witnessed the damage caused by the May floods and does this mean that if such accidents happen again, farmers should respond to them and fulfill the contract with their creditors. These are things that are not clear enough for us. You have, in the light of this amendment, said very extensively what comes into consideration and what all agricultural producers can call on and that is understandable. We think that precisely because of these circumstances that a agricultural producer cannot influence by its will or by its work or by its unhappiness, it may otherwise be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14831	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14832	As you said in your explanation of the rejection of the amendment, we have detailed why this amendment is unacceptable, but for the sake of the public I will only briefly remind you of the most important reasons why we have rejected the amendment. Article 6 of the proposed law stipulates that the debtor who received the funds from the trustee, whether it is cash or material, must recover those funds in a contractual manner. This member of the law virtually obliges the debtor that, if, for example, he has received a certain amount of seed material, fertilizer or advance in money, he is obliged to repay those funds, even in the event of a change in circumstances, i.e. the occurrence of more force or inability to fulfil, which is in accordance with the general principle of bonding relations on the equality of giving. What is also prescribed by this member and what is the proposal's intention is that, in such cases, the remainder of the contracted obligation, the debtor is not obliged to pay off the trustee and that for this contracted obligation can be called upon to a higher force or inability to fulfil the obligation. Now I want to take this opportunity to make sure that what we have already said in principle, that we always call and always advise farmers to ensure their production, because it is the best way to protect against more force. The ministry has subsidized, and in the future it will, 40% of the insurance premium we pay. So for 10 grand invested in insurance, the Ministry refunds the agricultural producer four thousand dinars. It's simply that these are general legal principles, and I think there's no reason to be dissatisfied with this solution precisely for these reasons of giving and receiving, otherwise it might be possible that the trustee will no longer be a trustee because he would suffer material damage and, of course, he would be more financially and in any other way exhausted, and he couldn't be in the function that we want to achieve by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14833	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14834	I thank you, Your Honor, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, and one objective question arises if this amendment would be accepted, who would eventually dare to be a confidant? So that's one common common sense issue that's self-inflicted. By accepting this amendment, the very position in the legal view of the creditors would become final, so to say, insecure, and the contracts exist, that both sides would know exactly what they are standing on, that both sides would be assured, that they would know exactly what they are getting through that contract, but also what their obligations are. In the end, contracts exist to be respected from beginning to end. With this fundamental principle of bonding law, I'm afraid there would be a legal uncertainty and I think as a result, that she would suffer herself from agricultural production, because to point out once again, rarely anyone would dare to be a trustee. So I don't think we're in a position to allow agricultural production to suffer, and I don't think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14835	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14836	I thank the chairman, I am pleased that my colleague Irene has already said what should have been an explanation why this amendment should not be accepted. So, the trustee can't have the slightest risk of losing, at least those basic assets he's invested. We've heard that before, but what besides ensuring primary production itself is still an appeal for our farmers to think in that direction, but also for the ministry to help our farmer, it's an investment in seat belts. So, just some training and our agricultural producers, how to protect their property to reduce the risks of floods, from strong winds, from any applications, from snow trash, and from investing in irrigation systems. So, in this context, besides insurance, investment is needed to reduce that risk, and I am sure that, when both sides are secured, this law will bring the most possible results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14837	Thank you. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment to be a member of the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, the Committee accepted Mr Miodrag Nikolic's amendment to Article 9. I will read to you Article 9 is very discriminatory – if the debtor is a agricultural owner, does not fulfil the obligation under the financing contract, that agricultural land, as well as the agricultural land which is connected to it in accordance with the law governing companies, is translated into passive status, into RPG, in accordance with the law governing agriculture and rural development and cannot exercise the right to incentives, in accordance with the law governing incentives in agriculture and rural development, and this law. Article 2 - the trustee informs the Ministry of Agriculture Affairs that the debtor referred to in Article 1 has failed to fulfil his obligation. With this in mind, we voted on the Committee to delete article 9. For the simple reason that the trustee and debtor conclude one contract, one bonding relationship and the state should not be a debt in favour of the bank and processors. Our dilemma was, are we on the side of farmers or processors? Also, our dilemma was what and if the crops were secured, what if there was a lawsuit between the insurance house and the dispute of the secured crops? What if he doesn't charge the insurance, and the obligation has to settle? Not only that, but what if he still owes 5,000 dinars? Why delete it and transfer it to passive status, because only then will he not be able to repay the debt. The question arises justifiably, is our goal being to destroy the agricultural producer or to help him repay that debt? On the other hand, we can ask a legitimate question, what if the "MK Komertz" lowers the price of sugar tail? As is the case now, well, there is no money to fully settle the obligation, although, for example, the MK Komerc contract was obliged to pay 38 euros per tonne, it comes and reduces 10% of the price and says – you have to sign that you will not sue, otherwise I will not take your sugar tail. What if he doesn't have the money to settle the debt for those reasons? Why would the state, as a debt collector, wipe him out of the register of agricultural landowners and punish him? What if he took the loan, of course, for warfare, if he's also a cattleman? What if we delete it and transfer it to passive status and prevent it from still getting premiums and subsidies, and it holds 50 cows, it remains a debt of 5,000 dinars, but it can't get any more incentives, so it can't settle the debt, what happens to the cattle fund, and why doesn't the state have the same arsenal for all citizens? If we're going to have farmers tied to processors, who's going to be Victoria Group, MK Komerc, etc., or they're going to be tied together with banks, if we're going to delete agricultural holdings from the register and transfer them to passive, that they don't have any further rights to premiums and subsidies, and the debt is not to the state, and the state has again sided with the processors, as it did two years ago and banned the export of sugar tails and other industrial cultures, because it was a drought, so that the processing industry has something to do, what in such situations, if it's done with peasants, then let's be equal and work towards all citizens. Let's declare in vain documents and passive, all citizens, who owe loans, that the state stands by the banks, when it comes to commercial loans for car purchase, etc. when it has already sided with creditors, when it comes to agricultural production. These are the dilemmas the Committee on Agriculture had on the amendment proposed by Mr Nikolic. I am an amendment, so as not to discuss the amendment to Article 9, it is not necessary, therefore, because I felt that Mr Nikolic's amendment was far more just, that it provided even the protection of the state against agricultural land, because if we delete it from the register he would no longer recover. We've got one less farmer and one more fat banker. One processor on whose side the state stopped. I know that the Ministry has broken down about this amendment, and I thank them for that, but as in all places, as in this Assembly, as in the Ministry of Agriculture, there are people who work for certain processors, and our problem is that our fates, the fates of agricultural producers, are not managed by producers, but by consumers and processors. This is one piece of evidence for this, I don't know why the state is mixed up to be a write-off to processors and banks who are lenders, who are creditors, where on their own notice that the rest of them will be obliged to be agricultural holdings eliminated, removed from the register, transferred to passively, expelled from the right to receive premiums and subsidies based on which they can recover, repay the debt and continue to work. What if that debt, say, is five to ten thousand dinars, and he really has 50 cows to get a million dinars of subsidy premium? Seven dinars per litre of milk, so there is a likelihood that it will only benefit on the basis of premiums and subsidies of more than two million. What if the farm, if he really didn't pay for the milk and he couldn't pay off for that reason, why isn't the state acting the same way when it comes to unpaid agricultural products of unsold farmers, but handed over to processors? These were the reasons, and there were the members of the Committee, for which I say we, in particular, gave up our amendment, and accepted the amendment by Mr Nikolic, who said that Article 9 is unnecessary, as something that puts the country, on the part of the processors rather than the manufacturer, we felt that Mr Nikolic's amendment was in full line with the effort to make our country stand once in favour of the manufacturer, not just for the benefit of processors and banks. Speaking of banks, whether we're going to force their incomes into this way, threatening farmers to be wiped out that they had to pay off, when these banks gave hand and hat to the processors who robbed the peasants again, regardless of what took out dozens and dozens of millions of euros from the bank, they stayed as Farm, like Koteks, etc., they remained enormous debts to primary agricultural production and cattle, regardless of what the entire system was on their side. So, on the one hand, we will reward and prevent farmers from charging their agricultural products, we will not stand in their protection, but in the event that God does not harm them a little bit, and then we will wipe out such agricultural holdings because of the debt to banks that have been so wasteful towards various Percevics, according to various Bogicevics, etc., we will now eliminate small agricultural holdings for their benefit. The board found that unacceptable. We respect the ministry's decision to see quite differently from what the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management saw. My fellow MPs, I ask that when there is a vote on Article 9 that these arguments are in mind. Whoever wants to vote is welcome. This is what I'd like to vote on, but I won't be mad at you unless you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14839	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14840	I just want to inform you in accordance with the proposed law, the trustee doesn't have to be a legal person, an entrepreneur, a processor, but can also be a physical person. Therefore, there is a large spectrum of those who can be compared to farmers who will borrow funds from them, whether they are material assets or money loans. In the context of Mr Ristic's story, I would like to say that the government has accepted the amendment to Article 9, amendments submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ivan Karic and Aleksandar Senic, and this amendment and its acceptance solves a lot of issues raised by Mr Risticevic. First of all, this amendment allowed the government to accept that a passive status did not go to that agricultural land which did not settle its obligation to the trustee, if there was a failure of the obligation due to more force, elemental disasters or similar factors, which he could not count on as the owner of the land. I think that in this way it has come to a significant extent to meet farmers, and to go beyond this, it would endanger what we just said, which is that we would practically lose those who would be interested in doing business as a trustee in this important business, to help farmers in terms of providing financing for their agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14841	The word has been given to the People's MP Miodrag Nikolic, the applicant of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14842	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the government, I was really happy to receive this proposal from the law on ensuring the financing of agricultural production. I was finally glad that this government had done something and started doing something for agricultural producers. We are witnessing a full 20-year-old, if not 25-year-old chaos in the country, the embargo, the bombing, the sanctions, and that poor peasant, and thanks to him, thanks to that agricultural producer, we had such peace in the country, we had food. Now that it's time to somehow help this agricultural producer or the landlady, this law has made me happy, since I'm a businessman, that he'll give some security and that it's really a big help to the agricultural land. However, by refusing the amendment after yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, where all the members of the Committee on Agriculture have loudly accepted my amendment, the government has rejected it, I ask my fellow Members to, and what my previous colleague, Mr Marijan Risticevic, has expressed, take a good look at the day of the vote and, possibly, to support this amendment, possibly according to their opinion and conscience. He's referring to the next one. First, Article 8 clearly states that the debtor, i.e. The owner of the agricultural holding is obliged to carry out the following obligations as a good businessman, i.e. a good host, under 2. - allow control of the execution of contractual obligations, and then, I quote: "The debtor who does not act in the manner set out in Article 1, is obliged to compensate the trustee for the damage suffered and to escape the benefit on that basis". It's really very well defined here, clearly and loudly, that if anything tries to play, to try a scam, he will have to, by law and by all obligations, by accepting Article 8, and ultimately by entering into a contract that makes up the client and the executioner, he's bound enough here, he's accepted the obligations, that is, by the law of the agricultural producer to settle all his obligations. So Article 9 doesn't run anything except someone wanted to, that someone I mean, I'm afraid these are tycoons or part of the tycoon, who may have been involved in some lobbying, that through this Article 9 we would punish him. If we punish him for any natural disasters, and we have seen this year that agricultural production has passed and where it has been found and how many have failed and have been brought to the brink of existence, if it appears again, don't let God, let the flood, some storm, some accident, cities, whatever else, it loses the next five years of opportunity to get subsidies in order to eventually recover it from being hit during that current year, or contracted year. Once again, I ask the Minister of Agriculture and the Government to consider this proposal, that is, my proposal, and that this member of nine be abolished because everything has been said in the previous 8th article in order to possibly really help agricultural production. It is the only branch, to be understood, the only possible and real economy that can be realised and done is in this way, to help primary production, i.e. agricultural land and a large number of farmers and farmers, especially in central southern Serbia, where we know what situation they are in, to start agricultural production, and then to create a large number of mini factories for the production and processing of all these raw materials. Only in this way will we be able to increase the GDP of our Republic of Serbia and thus increase national income, i.e. to preserve the national currency from real sources. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14843	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of me and the Committee, although I have withdrawn my amendment because Mr Miodrag Nikolic has proposed a better amendment, it is not clear to me why the state is put on a trustee's apartment, regardless of whether it is a physical person. That physical face I don't believe will be a mere farmer. So I believe that it will also be possible for natural persons to be trusted, but the biggest credentials will still be the ones I spoke to, and I was talking about situations where the farmer was not paid for agricultural products, and the debt was not returned, and it was not a higher power. The higher power cannot be a debt of ‘Farmacoma’ to milk suppliers to farmers. It's not a higher power. It is not a higher power when Miodrag Kostic reduces the price of sugar tail by 10%, although the contract tied the price to 38 euros per tonne. So it's not a higher power. These are the circumstances that lead one farmer to the situation that he cannot pay off his loan, his debt, and in such a situation the state should not behave as a debtor and stand by the creditors, so that before it can happen that the trustee remains in debt to the farmer, on the one hand, and on the other hand to report it to the Ministry, because the debt is not a higher power. If he owes for the milk delivered, then, it is not a higher power he owes, but on the other hand he gave the loan to the farmer and it may happen that whoever remains in debt to the farmer reports it to the ministry and the ministry deletes it from the register of agricultural holdings and thus loses the right to subsidies. Don't just lose him. I see the intensity to pay as little subsidies as possible. Subsidies and premiums are not only paid to a farmer. They help not only him, they also help the processing industry to be competitive in the environment. We have eight to nine times less subsidies and incentives in agriculture than European countries have. If we deny them more and more incentives and subsidies, we will increasingly be less competitive on our market. We have a fertile field. Serbia is a fertile field that was partially inherited in 2012, completely abandoned. This field is defiled, partially sold, covered in weeds, etc. We must make sure that we raise primary agricultural production and that the peasants produce that our workers process and make extra value that we should all share together, that we have enough money for ourselves and our families. That's what we need to take care of. Therefore, it is not in this way that the state punishes but people who can be punished for not paying off their agricultural products, and they are not in a position to settle the debt. It's not a higher power. Finally, a state appears that, instead of being a good villa, it punishes them and deletes them from the register of agricultural holdings, transfers them to passive ones and thus deprives them of the right to have premiums and subsidies. By denying it, if it's a cattleman, he's left with nothing else if he loses his milk premium, if he loses incentives on his throat, etc., it's for the drunk and at the market, or the Albanians will come and load it into the truck and go under the knife. That's how he loses the state. I don't know why in one bonding relationship the state would behave in favour of its creditors rather than in favour of its debtors. So far, there's been a situation where when a peasant hung up on him, when someone paid him nothing, the state didn't move its little finger to make it worth his while, and now all of a sudden, he cares about the trustees. I understand that this law is a step forward, I realize that money must be returned to the trustee, but if in various situations he can't do it, why would the state, it already exists, and there's a way that he can charge the money he lent to the debtor, additionally punish by eradicating from the subsidies, from the incentives? These incentives can be far greater than his debt to the trustee. For these reasons and many other reasons, what are we going to do with other loans that are not returned to banks and other creditors? What do we do with that? Are we going to punish the citizens for not having a regress for their vacation? Are we going to declare their addresses passive? Why should only those who take credit for agricultural production be punished in this way? Then why don't we apply that to all the citizens? There are many reasons for the ministry to accept this. If he doesn't want to, I'm ready and I'm ready for it, it's no problem at all. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I expect you to vote in accordance with your conscience or not to vote in favour of this amendment. Well, things are clear enough for me, but I'm not gonna throw any more water, I'm not gonna rock a boat, I'm not gonna wave. So I believe that the arguments Mr Nikolic made by submitting his amendment and being accepted on the board by all the board members are those arguments that I must defend here. I don't defend myself here, I defend farmers who have been punished many times, who work in the most cruel conditions. So, first of all, for the sake of them, the viewers of our loved ones and for the economic progress of this country that is related to the agricultural and processing industry, I want this amendment to be adopted. If he doesn't adopt, my God, let's move on. This law isn't a sacred letter. It's gonna be a time to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14845	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic and Ivan Karic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14846	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Ms. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, the adoption of this amendment eases the state's side of the tycoon. It is not clear to me that the government does not accept the previous amendment Mr Nikolic has submitted. As I was saying in principle, I find Article 9 completely excessive. We've made a correction to protect agricultural producers from being put into passive status if they happen to suffer damage to the city, floods or other disasters, but there's a question that we didn't get an answer to, and that's why the state only protects the creditors. It is simply unfair for the state to put aside creditors, to threaten debtors to be placed in passive status, and on the other hand there is no obligation for creditors or, for example, for purchasers of raw materials to pay off products. Also, there's no guaranteed price. If there is no such thing, then why do we legally commit debtors and threaten to put them into passive status and abolish subsidies if they do not settle their obligations to the creditors? The adoption of this amendment improved the status of agricultural producers or debtors in these contractual obligations. Our parliamentary group will also vote in favour of the previous amendment of Mr Nikolic, which is abolished by Article 9 entirely, because we believe that the state should not interfere with the contractual obligations of the two parties and that the state trustees, that is, banks and those which finance agricultural production in relation to agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14847	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14848	Thank you, Chairman. I am very glad that the opposition supported this amendment and understood what it was about. I have to make my point. The minister didn't answer, she didn't make any comments, and otherwise I know she's coming from Ivanjica to live in Chačka, in the centre of Serbia, in the forest. We know it's surrounded by agriculture. I really don't know who we're defending here or what we want. I'm right after all. I was thinking about whether to mention the word "tycoons". Obviously, if this amendment doesn't pass, we don't protect our agricultural producers, or the owners of agricultural land, the threat of them not accepting this kind of a variant, because on the one hand, the storm kills him, the wind, the rain, the cities, the floods, and so on, we cut off his subsidies, what's next? The ropes around your throat. I thank you from the opposition for supporting this amendment. If our amendment does not pass, then I will vote for your amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14849	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14850	Let's just say, it's not like I didn't answer. I'm talking to you, Mr. Nikolic. I answered, but I don't know how well you understood me and understood me. I said what the legislator of the law is and what the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is. Otherwise, I'd like to remind you that this law wasn't made by myself. Professional working groups participated in the draft of this law. There are a large number of people behind this law, those who are interested in the adoption of this law, including agricultural producers. This law has passed the procedure of public debate and we have proposed such a bill and have accepted the amendment of colleagues Đurisic and his associates. So, we believe that by accepting this amendment, we have responded to your demands to a significant extent. Practically, I just want to tell you that it's not true that we haven't called. I answered in front of a large group of people who were preparing this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14851	The word is made by the People's MP Miodrag Nikolic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14852	Thank you, Chairman. I really didn't understand your discussion. If Article 8 makes it clear and loud that a farmer is indeed carrying sanctions all possible under the law, why do we deny him the possibility of using subsidies for the next five years if there has been a flood, if there has been a natural disaster? In that case alone, in these cases alone, he has a chance to survive if he remains entitled to re-apply for the subsidy, vice versa, he is doomed. You can't convince me that you wanted to protect a farmer here, because I'm a businessman myself, and I'm in agricultural production by my own factory. I've got the biggest plum in the Five-hectare Moravage. I know what that means. It's a pity that Serbia, that my Pomoravlje has the largest five-hectare plum that owns one industrialist, planted it himself. So, I live in the village. I support the village and agriculture. It is our only possible chance and option to move forward as Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14854	Let me remind you. I said the government has accepted an amendment to Article 9 which does not go into passive status for agricultural holdings that have suffered the damage you are alleging as a result of natural disasters, floods, more force, etc. So it's accepted, so I don't know if we get along right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14855	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14856	Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what the minister said, but if the processor remains in debt to the farmer, it is not a higher power. In such a situation, he is obliged to report it to the Ministry of Agriculture, regardless of what the processor has remained in his debt, and because it is unable to repay the loan, the trustee reports it to the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of Agriculture transfers it to passive agricultural holdings and deprives it of all premiums, regressions and subsidies. That's what this is about. I argue that this Article 9 puts the state in a position to support above all processors, to support lenders, and that the borrower can bear sanctions even in situations where "Parmacom" remained in his debt, when "MK Komerc" remained in his debt, when they removed the price of sugar tail by 10%, which is the case these days, when he has to make amends to the contract, because sugar tail will not be accepted at all, in various situations it is no longer a force. Because of this debt made to him, the farmer is not in a position to settle his obligations. The trustee reports it and transfers the ministry to a passive registry. If the cattleman, if he has any good agricultural production, the situation directly damages the state, as this production is lost. Both premiums and regressions are not just for the benefit of the manufacturer. It is also for the benefit of the state, the processors to be competitive, as soon as it threatens the risk of livestock farming, which has lost a large number of throats, that in the situation that if a cattleman did it in wartime, if deleted, there is a likelihood that the number of throats continues to fall. It's just, as a farmer, I've been thinking about it. This wasn't my amendment before. It was Mr. Miodrag Nikolic's amendment. I withdrew my amendment that was similar to Mr Senic's amendments and the parliamentary group that proposed this second amendment. I withdrew it in favour of Mr. Nikolic's amendment. As for the public debate, I must say that the old law, that, the bill, was written by a parliamentary group that may have proposed this amendment, while they were together in one party, that law was written in 2011. Public debate, I cannot testify on this, the first one held in February 2012, I contacted all the associations of farmers, not one association of farmers confirmed my participation in the draft draft model of this law. So, if there was a public debate, I certainly can't tell who was involved in it. I suppose it was those who were interested in betraying money, or fertilising it, which is not controversial, but I speak from the angle of the farmer. This Article 9 can bring great damage not only to farmers. It can cause great damage to the state. In the short term, those who issue their capital will be in some profit, but in the long run, neither will they have anyone to lend to next year. I also know that farmers tend to twist loans, try not to return them, etc., but I also know of the practice of processors, which will most likely in most cases be a trustee, in this case, I also know of their custom to have several companies and try to avoid always paying farmers. I cited the case "Parmacoma", I cited the case of certain slaughterhouses, etc. It is full of books like the Bible of debts created between processors toward primary agricultural producers and herders. For this reason, unless we have any criminal measure against those who may be unpunished to remain millions and millions of euros in debt to primary agricultural producers and thus destroy the country's economic power, how can we apply the criminal measure on the other hand by the state for a debt in which the state did not participate? I would agree that farmers owe it to the state, to be expelled from the register of agricultural holdings and translated into passive and to be denied premiums and subsidies. Since this debt was not created by the state, but by a non-state confidant, in such a situation I cannot believe that the state is acting as a debtor in favour of those who have betrayed their capital. I agree that farmers have this bad habit. I agree that they have an obligation to settle the loan, because it is also necessary for another farmer to get a loan, but I do not agree with the state being an arbitration team before we have a full case, which our people would say, the complaints of farmers because agricultural products are no longer bought, but are taken over, which agricultural products are no longer sold, but are handed over and in a situation that is not possible to charge the agricultural product and, in such a way, to settle the loan, in such a situation, because of the failure of the loan, if the country punishes the agricultural producer is still losing the premium, it is for me as for the agricultural producer, the MP representing both the processors and the agricultural producers, it is unacceptable for me. That's what this is about. I don't dispute the right of the ministry to decide otherwise, but I simply state the facts that happen in reality and in the field. I urge fellow MPs to vote on the amendment to Mr. Nikolic's 9th. If we fail to declare it, then I urge you to declare an amendment proposed by the SDS parliamentary group, now called the ZZS and the Greens, because it is a slightly less bad solution than what it says in the initial text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14857	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14858	We talk too much about one good law. I think this law is really made up and it will benefit farmers. You mentioned a public hearing. I want to inform you that the Committee on Business and Finance has called for a public debate. The public hearing lasted 20 days in July and August of the month. As for your concern for agricultural producers, I'd like to say that we've accepted the amendment. The third time I'm not going to say it again, I've already said it, but just to add that the agricultural producer, or agricultural land, as soon as he returns the debt to the trustee, is moving from this passive status to active status. I'd ask you not to be so pessimistic. This is not the kind of case I expect it to be. If there are, there will certainly be a negligible small number compared to those other positive cases. Therefore, I ask you not to make a story out of a good bill that will leave the dilemmas to farmers whether we really speak in their interest today, whether we are fighting for them or whether it is some other interests. I claim that this law is made up and that we propose it and here we defend it precisely in the interest of our agricultural producers, and those small ones who find it difficult to recover production during that period of the year, from spring, when they need a lot of funding and they don't have it. Of course, they're aware and they know, our farmers know that what they get has to be returned, and I don't think it's controversial. And I don't think we should discuss it any further, and it's certainly up to the MPs to make a decision. I said what the Ministry suggested and what the RS government suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14859	The word has been issued by MP Janko Veselinovic, as an authorised representative, i.e. deputy head of the parliamentary group, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14860	Thank you, Chairman. As far as this amendment is concerned, we can see that applause has now begun to be measured. I think it's very simple to get out of this problem. The parliamentary group that proposed this amendment, or MP who proposed this amendment, has an absolute majority in this National Assembly. In voting day, he can vote this amendment and any further story about this is pure demagogy. On the other hand, we said that we would vote for that amendment, so I think things are very, very clear. If we want to, in the majority's view, now this law can somehow go in favour of the tycoon, to prevent that, we will vote in the voting day for this amendment and we will finish the story. Unfortunately, the minister will remain in the minority, but what do we do? It belongs to a party that has no ability to influence the government's work more significantly. Most of it is there and, anyway, I think we can just sort it out in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14861	The word is made by MP Milan Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14862	President-in-Office, distinguished minister, guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, it is my personal opinion that we should accept this amendment for the simple reason that nobody goes against anyone here, goes against the processors, but goes to that segment, which you say to the minister, to protect the manufacturer, that he has faith that he will not lose to 100 money in one season of 1000. What does that mean? If only one season is translated, passive, until he solves all the procedural things, he can lose a lot on the basis of the subsidies and the premiums he gets. So it is my personal opinion that I should support this amendment to Mr Nikolic and show that we really think about the manufacturers who have put the burden of this crisis in every way. I don't think with this gesture we're going to harm the lenders, but we're going in favor of both the lender and the borrower, i.e. to show attention to our farmers that we really think about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14863	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the material I received, I apologize, I received that the debate on the law was held in 2012, 2013. I've now received information that it was in July and August. Coming to the post of the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, he said that the economic power of a country will almost be measured by the amount of food, by the amount of drinking water that the country produces or can produce. So, ladies and gentlemen, when we run out of food and no water, it's very easy to see that diamonds and gold mean nothing to us. So, that warfare, livestock farming, agriculture are the best that this country is breast-feeding and that provides strategic security to this country from possible military and economic pressures, not only to enable the economic development and well-being of landowners, processors, workers and their families. With that in mind, I have also represented, around these amendments, the position to adopt, if we can say so, the amendment proposed by Mr Nikolic, and if not, democracy is a divergence and I disagree with my colleagues that one majority will vote on another minority, which I have proposed before, unless the amendment proposed by Mr Nikolic, which belongs to the SNS parliamentary group, is to vote on an amendment that is less a poor solution than the law of the parliamentary group, whose predecessor here spoke, as authorised in front of the parliamentary group. So, as for July and August, public debates, the villagers must have been at sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14865	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers the amendment to be in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14866	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in this amendment, to Article 11, we wanted to add that the contract register implies, except for the data protected in accordance with the personal data protection rules, that it must be published on the official website of the competent ministry and that it is regularly updated. The proposed amendment addresses more comprehensively the issue of data to be entered in the contract register. The amendment provided for the entry into the register of interest rate data, if agreed. By failing to record this element of the contract, contracts are not transparent enough because the interest rate is one of the indicators combined with other elements that give clear signals whether the contract is concluded under market conditions or has significant deviations. In our view, this kind of transparency is very important because such data should be found as public data, because they do not comply with personal data protection regulations, that this publication on the site and its regular update is available. On the other hand, important derogations can be such that contracts concluded are extremely unfavourable for debtors, as they can be concluded by exploiting the difficult position of debtors. For these reasons, it is of paramount importance that such contracts be as transparent as possible, and in particular, given that a large number of agricultural producers are in an extremely difficult situation after the flood and that the register is public and that all data can be seen in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14867	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14868	I consider the proposed amendment to Article 11. The law should be rejected for several reasons, taking into account the fact that the concluded contract constitutes the consent of the parties' will and that there is no need for third parties to be familiar with the provisions of such a contract. Since the contract covers the subject matter of the bond law and our legal practice does not know the obligation to publish any bond contract, or even with the aim of contracting parties to protection, as regular mechanisms of protection are envisaged through regular court proceedings. It is not only necessary to protect the information on the personality of the parties, but these contracts will also contain a number of parameters concerning business policies, creditors, creditors, credit users, start from the land of parcels, yields, wartime or fruit cultures, interest rates and the dynamics of credit payments, which are all data that can be misused if they come into possession of unauthorized persons and can cause major damage to the parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14869	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14870	I didn't understand why the ruling majority think this amendment should be rejected and said that the things in the contract shouldn't be public? This law is just talking about the fact that this register should be public and made available. In the refusal of amendments, the Government said it did not accept our amendment, because the essence of our amendment is that of all the data provided for publication, interest is included. So we asked to include interest, and the government predicted that only, of all the elements of the contract, interest is not included in the register. Article 11 is so written that it takes a lot of effort to figure out what the government predicted and you'll see that there's no interest in this whole mix-up. We believe that interest should also be seen. We believe that this law should ensure that farmers are protected from greeners, from green interest, and that this information should be in the register as well as any other data. So we're not asking for other data to be published now without the government predicting it. She didn't just predict interest. We've been asked to be published on the Ministry's website, the government says a central, unique, public electronic database will be run by business registers agencies. So she'll be available. Perhaps not, there may be one link on the Ministry's website, and that would have warned all of this without accepting our amendment, but the essence of this amendment is to make sure that interest is included in the register, if agreed. I don't know why the government insists that only interest can't be made public with all the other data. We think it's better if this amendment of ours is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14871	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14872	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable fellow Members and colleagues, and we, as in Article 11, have some information that we believe should be more visible and that Article 12, paragraph 1, instead of the words: "can be executed, replaced by the word "executed" and in point 2 after the word "these obligations", the words are added: "no delays, and no later than eight days, since the change has been reported". We still think it's important, given that in today's debate on all sides she has doubts that banks can be very, not to use any harsh word, but when it comes to interest very much to clients very rigorously. Our citizens generally face the biggest problems, when it comes to interest, in the region of all countries and the EU and most of the countries in the environment. We're having problems, which is why we thought it was important for those data to be seen. With this amendment, we want to establish the obligation to enter the contract into the register, as well as any change in data, with the deadlines in which it must be carried out. We believe that with the joint effort of SDS, ZES and "Green Serbia", our MP club believes that this amendment offers a higher level of legal certainty, as the register will be more complete, as it foresees a commitment that each contract must be registered and at the same time foresees that any change must be recorded, which makes the register more up-to-date.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14873	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic and Ivan Karic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new Chapter 8 and a new member be added after article 33. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14874	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, this law does not contain any criminal provisions. So, in 40 members, there are no criminal provisions. The previous law which we discussed on several sides deals with criminal provisions and we felt that it was necessary to regulate certain criminal provisions by this law and provided that those penalties could be prescribed, i.e. that penalties would be imposed if data were not entered or changed in the contract register, or if the debtor had no delay, that is, this period of eight days, not that the agreement for the change of the data in the contract register. The government says - the amendment is not accepted for reasons because the entry of data and registration of data from the contract register are in the interests of the parties, so it is not necessary to sign a penalty for a breach in the event of a failure of such action, since they do not themselves harm. I have to admit, this is a very unusual explanation for me. Many contracts when signed, the parties sign it at their best and with the idea that both will benefit from it, but sometimes things and life go the other way, so the state needs to react. Also, in part two of the reasons for refusal says – giving consent to the debtor to sign a change of data in the contract register is the will and right of the trustee, which must be governed by the principle of good business practices and this law. If the debtor considers it damaged by not obtaining consent, he may exercise his right in court proceedings. So here, a debtor who has been placed in a subordinate position in many members of this law compared to the trustee, and this explanation shows that he puts himself in a subordinate position because he says – if he does not like something, in this particular case, if he does not get the consent to change the registration of data in the register, he can exercise his right in court proceedings. Now, if we see and if we know how the case is conducted in Serbia, there are 2.8 million court proceedings that have been conducted for more than two years, that is the thing that the European Commission has also turned our attention to in its report, and if we think that farmers will now have some kind of protection by addressing some regular procedure in court and trying to achieve protection, we simply believe that this is not a real situation in Serbia. This is another indicator that the intention of this law is to put in a subordinate position and make it even more difficult for farmers to live in Serbia. That's the main reason we won't support the whole bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14875	The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14876	I would just like to say that the obligations laid down by the law are in the interest of the parties and that the parties to their intention should take all the activities to protect their interests from this contractual relationship. If one of the Contracting Parties behaves in a non-domestic way against the provisions, good rules of procedure, unconscious or not dealing with the attention of a good host, thereby causing damage to the other Contracting Party, that Contracting Party which has suffered damage shall have the right to compensation and damage, by seeking regular court proceedings, so that the proposed amendment to Article 33 is to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14877	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14878	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment was about the contract register, for which it takes a certain time, to implement the contract, so I proposed an amendment to postpone the implementation of this law on areas covered by it by six months for the establishment of a contract register to be conducted at the Agency for Economic Registers. Despite the fact that this law was written in 2011 and 2012, despite the fact that the first public debate was in 2012 and despite the lack of Article 9, I think that the bill was one step ahead of the situation in which the so-called sales to green farmers were largely achieved by laying down assets of significantly higher value, i.e. giving a mortgage on real estate. This law is a step forward because it proposes a contractual relationship to advocate crops, i.e. future generations. When we also have a compensation fund, which can draw loans from banks to finance agricultural production, this bill allows its own solutions to finance agricultural production, especially small agricultural holdings that have run out of cooperatives, without co-operation, which have worked with cooperatives. So I think, when these six months have passed and the law starts to be implemented, that it will still be a better solution than before, when for loans of this kind they had to advocate a significantly higher value for these properties, given the public record prizes, there would have to be considerable segregation and considerable money to be allocated to over the overu of that kind of stock. This law does not provide for it, only a signature with several points is certified. I thank the Ministry for adopting this amendment. This contract should be well considered and the APR in the database established a contract register that is necessary for the implementation of this law. I think he's very important because, ladies and gentlemen, the agricultural policy we found looked like that -- you plant a roach and you wait for the pig to pop up. I think in some ways it came out to meet the lending of agricultural production. Our stock fund is so down, I'm afraid if it continues like this, we won't have enough cows to take pictures of ourselves in election campaigns. With that in mind, except for Article 9, this law is acceptable to me and I will certainly vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14879	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14880	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, it is simply unusual for me that this argument given by Mr Risticevic, an explanation of the importance of this law and all the good that this law will bring and improve the situation in Serbia's agriculture, gave an explanation for an amendment extending the deadline for another three months to begin the application of this law. If everything is so bad and catastrophic, then why didn't you give the amendment to proceed immediately with the application of this law? The ministry came with a proposal to start applying the law in just over four months, or three months from today, and now an amendment has been adopted to move on in six months. If it's so bad, it's catastrophic, there's something to be done, and this is this rescue law, then let's go immediately to apply it, not in three or six months. So I don't understand why the government has accepted a delay in the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14881	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14882	Dear People's MPs, at the end of today's session, when it comes to the laws proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment, I want to thank you both for your attention and for your understanding. I'll remind you, our Ministry has proposed four laws and today, five, six days ago, along with my associates, I've been explaining the proposed laws and answering your questions. I thank everyone, and I especially thank the MPs who participated in the debate in principle. I thank those who have submitted constructive amendments and whose amendments have been accepted. It is absolutely certain that they contributed to improving the text of the proposed laws. I also thank those who have proposed amendments, and unfortunately we have not accepted the amendments for justified reasons, but certainly their amendments have given us the opportunity to present together again to our general public the proposals with which we have come before you MPs. I hope that the proposed laws will be applied in practice and I hope that they will benefit farmers, that they will help to protect and sustainable use of the fish fund. I hope that Serbia in co-operation with the surrounding countries will be more successful in fighting the floods that hit us this year, and unfortunately you never know when it can happen again. I also hope that we have provided quite good conditions for the functioning of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute and that even in the future of this office, we can expect precise forecasts from this house. I thank you all. Our Ministry is open to co-operation, for every constructive, good suggestion and idea. On the other hand, we're counting on you and your support again. Thank you all so much again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14883	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Alexander Vulin, Minister of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, Aleksandar Stojanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, Ljiljana Juver, Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Borary and Social Affairs and Nenad Ivanišević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. 11th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE PUBLISHING OF PARTIES You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Branka Karavidić. You have received a report from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14884	Thank you, President. I'm not an amendment promoter, but I'm going to try to point out the fact that what our parliamentary group wanted with the amendments submitted. Namely, our parliamentary group is the only one who has submitted amendments. We wanted to clarify some of the questions. We wanted to remove some misunderstandings and to make it clear, first and foremost, that I am talking about this amendment to Article 1, what this law regulates. We have made such an amendment that someone who wants to get acquainted with the content of this law can already conclude from Article 1 what this law refers to and which area it regulates. So we said that this law regulates conditions for the employment of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the Republic), so it is said to limit the employment of foreigners, the process of issuing work permits, records and co-operation, supervision of the application of this law, penalties for non-compliance with the provisions of this law and other issues of importance for the employment and work of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia. Why do we think this is important? First of all, because we believe that hiring foreigners in a regulated country is a matter of interest to the dominant population, but it is also of interest to those who could possibly be interested in finding a job in the Republic of Serbia. Such people today are very, very little because of the fact that even for people living in Serbia there is no job and that they go abroad with bread. The Minister knows that very well. However, it would have been good if we had also specified in this Article 1 that this law would also regulate the records of persons authorised to work in the Republic of Serbia. Why? Well, for example, if there was such a provision, it would be clear that someone through the register of persons who had found a job in the Republic of Serbia could make an insight into that record and make it available to the public. Perhaps some provisions could be added to that record, which would also mean recognising the fact that those persons may have received travel documents from the Republic of Serbia in the meantime. Perhaps the minister could answer us, since, apparently, on Thursday, we won't have a session on government issues, otherwise it's the government's practice, so we've had only one or two sessions in which we could ask the government a question. Thursday keeps avoiding each other. Ministers, here is a specific question regarding this amendment – whether I do not see this law through this member and some other members of whether this law recognises whether a person has received a work permit and whether, on the basis of that work permit, it is possible that he has received a travel document. We've had a serious problem in your government these days with getting a travel document, or Mr. Kuchenko's passport, which is a serious businessman, it seems, someone from your government gave him a travel document, but I'm interested in whether he got a work permit, whether it exists somewhere in the records or if he got a passport first, and then he was supposed to get a work permit afterwards. So this could be seen through one precision and keeping a record if it was clearly specified. On the other hand, when we talk about the essence of the law both in this article and in some of the following members, I am interested in whether, through the title, we tried to specify whether this law included persons who are temporarily staying in Serbia, they come for the weekend that they have musical performances in the country, and therefore tax obligations. I think it's an area that's not even arranged. I know other countries in the region take great care of that. Namely, if our musician goes to one of the countries of the region or countries of the world, he has to get a work permit there, and based on that, he's a taxpayer. I don't see, it says here that it applies to other contracts, let's say, work contracts, but I'm not sure that based on this law, the inspection bodies will recognize the necessity to control such persons and when they enter the country, whether they get a work permit or perform their musical numbers and show their artistic achievements without a work permit. In that sense, in this part and through this title, we could recognize the next legal institute, which is that when someone is doing a job in our country without compensation, let's say, wants to help the Serbian government, let's say it's Stros-Kan, Guzenbauer, etc. Whether he is obliged to receive a work permit or such services fall within another domain legally inaccessible to us. By precision in Article 1, what exactly does this law refer to is answers to these questions as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14885	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14886	I'll try to answer with as little politics as possible, and I can see there's been a lot of politics here. A lot of interest in politics, not so much interest in the law, but good and that's fine. As for travel documents, I'm sorry if anyone has a passport he's no longer a foreign citizen. What do we have to issue work permits for the carriers of Serbian passports? This law isn't about that. So it's clear that's not the case. Otherwise, in order to get a work permit first you have to have a residence permit, which gives you the MUP. So, you take care of everything, every person in this territory. As for those who come as you set an example, let's say they sing for the weekend. If they reside in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for less than 90 days, they personally carry out temporary educational, artistic, cultural and other activities, they do not require the issue of a work permit. On the other hand, it's the inspection that, he came to someone's call, he works here with someone. So whoever is the organizer of this kind of scientific or cultural or sporting or any activity, is required at the request of an inspection to explain what that person is doing, if he's getting a profit to see what it's like to earn. What else was the question? About the profits themselves? I think that's all. Come on, I've already got that out of my mind, because it's so political, but come on, unless a person receives a profit and stays on the territory of the Serbian state for more than 90 days, of course he doesn't need a work permit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14887	After the amendment, Janko Veselinović. Please just Mr. Veselinovic, the questions raised through the amendments are unfortunate in that the minister has the same two minutes to comment on the amendment, which is why you are making him uncomfortable so he cannot give you a full answer or I must personally violate the Rules of Procedure to give him a long time. In that sense, only you, but not just you, but all MPs, that the issues in the domain of principle debate do not translate into the domain of individual debate. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14888	Don't worry, Chairman, you know I always speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I won't bring the minister into an awkward situation that he doesn't have enough time to answer me. So, from three to four questions to three, I got the answer, but I didn't get an answer on this fourth, or I didn't get a satisfactory answer, and it concerns people who came for artistic and other reasons, to perform their numbers during the week in Serbia. You say, "This law does not apply to them, but is who has hired them to report them." You didn't even say he was obliged to report them, but if the inspection controls him, he's obliged to explain what he's doing here. There is still one problem, and I'm afraid there is a legal gap that existed in the previous law and in this law now. I don't think it's clear and explicit enough, maybe it's our fault that we haven't submitted an adequate amendment, that those faces cover this law. I believe that these persons should be subject to this amendment and that these persons may create a greater tax obligation than all these faces are others who are two thousand and a few foreigners who are working in our country. So it is not clear whether that person, the physical person when entering the country, fills in a form in which he says he will work for the few days he is in the country, performs the work for which he will receive the compensation. The name of the employer who will receive the compensation, which will be paid to him, regardless of what the employer performs in the area. I don't think it's done properly. I believe that Serbia is the only one in the region, and I would say it is arranged in the world, and it has legal uncertainty, i.e. a legal gap that causes in some way financial damage to the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14889	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the committee responsible have not adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14890	This amendment and with two other amendments, we wanted to introduce into this law the concept of "connected companies", and in particular this amendment reads to add a new point that says that "business companies are linked to companies formed in terms of laws governing the legal position of companies". We introduced this because some other amendments also talk about this specific type of business in Serbia, showing that there are related companies, that it, among other things, is the movement of employees within related companies. We thought it should be put into this law. The government thinks it's too high, that what was proposed in the law is enough to cover a sufficient number of cases. We felt it would be more appropriate to accept this amendment to get this into the law itself, not to get into a situation where some things can be interpreted. I suppose this amendment of ours will not be accepted by the majority in voting day, and we will see if the application of this law shows that it may have been more meaningful that this amendment was accepted after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14891	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic together submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the committee responsible have not adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic together submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the committee responsible have not adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 21a. The government and the committee responsible have not adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic together submitted to the 30th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14892	It's up to us to accept this amendment, I think it's fixed this bill, because it's good, we said it in principle debate and we'll vote for it. We were most disturbed by this thing, which is that in Article 30 that defines when the work permit ceases to be valid, 10 dots are listed, and then the 11 point was spoken – and in other cases, which basically means that it was completely pointless to list the previous 10 points, because it means that in any other case, as it is written, there is no telling what other cases are, is not related to, in other cases, related to any law or other. We are pleased that this amendment has been accepted, because it allows us and introduces order into the legal system of the state, which, if it had remained as proposed in the law itself, would have introduced one legal uncertainty and simply, would not have known what other cases were in relation to it, and we are grateful that the Ministry has accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14893	National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic together submitted to the amendment. The government and the committee responsible have not adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, today, November 25th, 2014, starting at 16.20pm, as the Day for Voting on Points of the Eighth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I'm taking a five-minute break to get the MPs together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-25-0.u14894	The honourable MPs before we move on to a decision need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 143 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Rebellioners Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular we move to a decision. I'm putting the motion for a law on the protection of alarmers, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments of the people's MPs Dubravka Filipovski to Article 18, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic to members 29th and 40th, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavić to members 29th and 40th, as well as amendments of the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government to members 8th and 18th. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – there is no, 145 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 5th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 149 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 149 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 5, the name of the member and member of the 5a, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Amendments to which members and members of 9a were added after article 9, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th and 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 12th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 13th and Article 13th of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic, together with Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Amendments to which members and members of 13a were added after article 13, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski and Dragan Jovanovic jointly submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 15th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Olga Batic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 17th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 18th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 21st amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 22nd Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Olgica Batic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 167 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 167 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 160 of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - none of the abstentions - did 164 vote out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, which were added after Article 36, by Glava 4a, with the name, and members 36a and 36b, with names, in the same text, were submitted jointly by the MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and jointly by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have come to the conclusion of the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the motion to vote for a law on the protection of alarmers, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, v – nine abstentions – there are no votes, seven of the 169 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on the protection of alarmers. As we now move to a decision on the motions for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, Judges and Public Prosecutors, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105, paragraph 2 of paragraphs 12 and 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly elects the presidents of the courts, judges and public prosecutors by a majority vote of all MPs. In view of the fact that no amendments have been made to those proposals, as referred to in Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors for the appeals public prosecutor's office, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the 169 MPs present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office as judges, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 out of the 168 MPs present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, v – five abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office as judges, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154 against – one abstention – there is no vote of 13 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. Before moving to a decision on the bill, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments to Article 160(3) of the Law have not been submitted to that proposal. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on this bill. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on extradition, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted five of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, passed a bill confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on extradition. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – eight abstentions – there are no votes, three of the 169 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on the amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendments of the MPs of Milan Novakovic to the article. 2nd and 27th, Marijana Risticevic, Art. 6th and 48th, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić and Mr Dejan Chapa in art. 11th and 17th and Ivan Karic and Aleksandr Senić on Article 16. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 160 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 166 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 160 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, together with the correction, was submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Mr Dejan Chapoo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, proposed to add a new member and member 7a after Article 7, was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment to the name of the member and member of the 10th was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 162 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 162 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment, together with the correction, were submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposed to add a new member's name after Article 21 and Article 21a was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Branislav Blazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Environmental Protection Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, voted 26 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 157 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment to the name of the member and member of the 44th was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment to the name of the member and member of the 46th was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment to the name of the member and member of the 46th was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 52nd amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 157 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 56, the amendment was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Novakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 165 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 65th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 165 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have come to the conclusion of the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – eight abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the 166 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on financing and ensuring the financing of agricultural production in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, v – eight abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to article 35. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 157 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic and Ivan Karic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, no one, with abstentions, voted 12 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers the amendment to be in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic and Ivan Karic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new Chapter 8 and a new member be added after article 33. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on financing and ensuring the financing of agricultural production in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 versus – eight abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production. Before moving to a decision on the bill, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments to Article 160(3) have not been submitted to that proposal of the law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on this bill. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the flood protection protocol under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the votes of all MPs a bill confirming the flood protection protocol under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Second Amendment to the Treaty on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT), in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – no one, with abstention – has voted six of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all the MPs, passed a bill confirming the Second Amendment to the Treaty of Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT). We move to the 11th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE JOB OF PARTIES As the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on the hiring of foreigners on principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – no one, with abstention – has voted six of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 30, which was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Branka Karavidic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the total attendance of 165 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the total attendance of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the total attendance of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Snezana Malović and Branka Karavidic together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 21a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the total attendance of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malovic and Branka Karavidic together submitted to the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total attendance of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on the employment of foreigners. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Status of the Serbian Military Memories on the territory of the Russian Federation and Russian Military Memories on the territory of the Republic of Serbia Before I move to a decision on the Law proposal, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3) of Article 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments to Article 160(3) of the Law have not been submitted to that proposal. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on this bill. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of Serbian military memorials in the territory of the Russian Federation and Russian military memorials on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 of the total attendance of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by the majority of the votes of all MPs, passed a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of Serbian military memorials in the territory of the Russian Federation and Russian military memorials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to a decision. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 18 November 2014 at 10 o'clock and 52 minutes pointed to a violation of Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – one, abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 18 November 2014 at 13 o'clock and 43 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – one, abstention – has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 18 November 2014 at 16 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 18 November 2014 at 17 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 108 and 112. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 20 November 2014 at 11 p.m. and 17 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 20 November 2014, at 12 hours and 32 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 145 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 20 November 2014, at 12 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—one, abstained—one, voted 139 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 20 November 2014, at 12 hours and 47 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against two abstentions, has voted for 140 of the total of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 20 November 2014, at 13 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 142 of the total of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 20 November 2014, at 13 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – three, 137 of the total of 142 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session of November 20, 2014, at 14 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no vote, 140 of the total of 142 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 20 November 2014, at 15 hours and 23 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 140 of the total of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 20 November 2014, at 17 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, abstention – there is no, 139 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
