ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1418	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 138 MPs. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 168 of the 3rd and 4th centuries. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, during the session of the National Assembly, may be placed on the agenda of the session with extraordinary urgency on the basis of proposals for selection, appointment and resolution and termination of office, provided that the sittings are attended by the majority of the total number of MPs. On any proposal for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, the National Assembly shall, without delay, decide, when setting the agenda, or during the sitting, immediately upon receipt of the proposal, provided that the sittings are attended by the majority of the total number of MPs. In view of the fact that several proposals for putting on the agenda for emergency acts during the sitting have been made in accordance with these provisions, and given that the majority of the total number of MPs attends today's session, the conditions for the National Assembly to declare these proposals have been met. Please, first of all, let's determine the quorum. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum. We're moving on to a decision. State-guarantee prosecutors, pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, by emergency procedure, the second session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 be included in the item: Proposal for a decision on the election of the Deputy Prosecutor, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, no one, with abstentions, voted 29 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, based on Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the second session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 point: Proposal for a DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONSTITUTIONS OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF SERBIA IN THE IMPLEMENTARY INSTITUTIONS I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted 12 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Secretary General of the National Assembly Jana Ljubicic, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that, by emergency procedure, the second session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 be included in the item: Proposal FOR THE NAME OF THE SECRETARE OF THE National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 19 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 10 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Member of the SPS Group, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the second session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014, point — Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND REFERRED TO IN THE MEMBER’S COMMITTEE. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, no one, abstentioned – did not vote, seven MPs were not among the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic, Dr Miljan Nikolic, Aleksandar Jablanovic, Konstantin Arsenovic and Olgica Batic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of a principled review on the draft law and amendments to the Law on Road Safety, I have also called on the meeting of Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior and Zorica Lončar Kasalica, Head of the Directorate for Administrative Affairs of the Police. We continue our work and move on to the principle search of the 12th agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the law on security of traffic security on the roads you have received the bill of law submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, the interior minister, want a word? Here you go. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1419	Ladies and gentlemen, fully aware of the fact that this law comes at a time when no one could predict that it would be on the agenda of the Assembly, in a situation in which our country is located, but given that it solves one matter that is not without meaning to us, I will try to explain, as soon as possible, what the bill is and why we propose it. In 2009, a Transport Safety Act was adopted, which, among other things, envisioned the issue of new driving license forms. These new patterns replace old cardboard patterns, they're card types. For the first time since then, they have been personalised and made it possible to comply with EU legislation, facilitate crossing across border crossings because there are certain readers who thus function and facilitate driving without international driving permits in all EU countries. So there's multiple benefits for people who have a new driver's license form. It was envisaged, given the pace and dynamics that the Ministry of Interior could issue in one year more than 80,000 driving licences, issued regularly, so to all those who have just passed the driving test, somewhere between 450,000 and 500,000 driving licences, in terms of replacement, without pressure on the counters and in accordance with some normal pace and dynamics. It was then estimated that a five-year period was sufficient. However, after it has been established, in the last few weeks, when the report came, we have, in fact, between a million and 200 million and 500 thousand, it cannot be said with precision, because they are issued non-stop driving licenses, we have come to the conclusion that on 10 June this year we will start punishing people who have not done so, and it is a large number of Serbian citizens, or we will extend the deadline. Of course, aware of all the arguments both for and against, or someone will think that he was punished for respecting the law and according to the law he did so, and now someone is extending the deadline, and he paid in time and changed his driving license prematurely, or we will punish someone for perhaps for some other reasons he failed to get to replace it. We have opted for a model to extend for three years the deadline for issuing these permits and we will try to stimulate, talk to citizens and through promotional actions encourage them to do so, because this is good, not only for harmonising our legislation with the EU, which is our obligation and one of the priorities of the government, but also for citizens themselves. So, the point is to extend the time limit for these forms to be valid for three years. The MUP will try everything it can to stimulate citizens in those three years to make a replacement. The price of that form is 1570 dinars, so we believe that the three-year deadline is enough not to cost too much to the citizens. It is a regular price to be paid when such a type of document is issued. I wouldn't be long. We remain completely open to all questions. Speaking of documents, I'll just give you one more piece of information. The MUP will propose to the government that all citizens affected by the floods, who died in this cataclysm, personal documents lost or no longer issued for free. That'll be our proposal. I want to let you know we're working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1420	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1421	Mr. Minister, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MP group of SNS will vote and support these amendments to the Transport Safety Act. There are many reasons for such a decision. We support the decision and the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to serve and work in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This determination and this decision by the Government that all the people who are in floods and accidents that have hit our country have lost documents that they will receive from the state without paying compensation. We also support the idea of the law itself that in this way the state will not go into account, perhaps the reckoning is a difficult word, with citizens who have not replaced the permits. Over a million people drive their cars in Serbia without replacing their driving licenses. We do not want to send one bad message by adopting some amendments that have been proposed to extend this deadline from this three years to time, because as a society, as a state, we are waiting for the harmonisation of the law with EU legislation, and an integral part of that European path is the harmonisation of documents, among other things, and harmonisation of driving permits. I think the MUP is ready to do such a job in the next three years, especially since in exchange for driver's licenses, at this point, within the framework of the MUP, 232 tents have been identified. Forty-four counters are only for the city of Belgrade, with an additional 43 openable in case of need, which would be enough for the town of Belgrade, amounting to 87 tents. What I would suggest to you as a suggestion, which you pointed out on the Committee, I think it's a good trend, that only 5.127 requests came by electronic means compared to the total number of replacement driver's licenses. I think this is a very small number in the mills. Perhaps by some media promotion of this way, the easier way, we can, at least to younger people, who use more electronic mail and electronic communication, contribute to making that number of people who will get to the driver's license significantly higher. I would point out that the price, which is always questionable, is big, small, small, insufficient, the smallest in the environment, as well as that in Serbia the price of issuing a new driver's license is 13.40 euros and is easier in euros because of the compatibility with other countries, as in Croatia it is almost 20, in Montenegro 15, BiH 60 converting marks. Serbia is starting at the very beginning at the cost of issuing new or replacing traffic permits. Mr. Minister, with another finding that the SNS will vote in favour of this amendment and the addition of the Transport Safety Act, I would like to inform you that the SNS parliamentary group will not take part in the discussion in that time that has been set for the SNS Group, because I believe that this time, the unfortunate time that has come for a good part of our country is the time when we have to act rather than debate. That's why I think it's a place for you on the walls, where I've seen you on the walls of the Centhium, the Black Bar, the Silos in Capac, the Obrenovac, all those places that, in addition to all those people the state has taken care of, you and your ministry and members of your ministry. That's why we want you to join the people where you've been and spent days and nights and you and other representatives of the RS government as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1422	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Kosanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1423	Dear Ministers, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill on amendments to the Transport Safety Act and I will say at the very beginning that the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support this bill in the day of voting. This is practically one technical decision extending the period of validity of existing driving licences and extending the time limit for replacing old driving licences for new driving licences. According to data available to the MUP 3.385,624 drivers own old driver's license, and from the moment the law was passed, from 4 June, i.e. when it began to replace driving licenses, not when the law was passed, in 2011, somewhere around 2,155,111 drivers replaced old forms for new and including those drivers who first received driving licences. The Transport Safety Act entered into force on 10 June 2009 and since that moment that law was passed, 2,155,111 drivers have replaced driver licenses. So, just over a million people remain to replace these permits and what is important by extending this period of three years is that the deadline extends to 10 June 2017. What do you get by this law? We lead to, first of all, legal security of citizens, and on the other hand, the adverse consequences of the work of the authorities that would have to replace more than a million driving permits in such a short time. Speaking of the Traffic Safety Act, I must say that we all aim first at reducing the number of car accidents and the consequences they are certainly carrying with them. I'll give you some information. In 2013, we had 37,127 car accidents, of which 23,617 was a material damage accident, while 13,500 were with the victims and the worst 643 with persons who lost their lives. What I want to tell you here, looking back from 2001 when the number of accidents was twice as high as in 2013 or the year before we passed the law when it was 67,000 versus 37,000, the number of people killed by 1.3%. But I have to say, as far as the world is concerned, there's no pink situation anywhere, somewhere around 1,300,000 people in the world lose their lives annually, and there's no way out as far as that goes. The modern approach to research, as far as traffic safety is concerned, introduced the notion of a traffic safety indicator and what do these traffic safety indicators represent in practice? They represent any measure that causes traffic accidents and the consequences of these accidents. There are seven specific areas, areas that define this, i.e. Traffic safety indicator comparison of alcohol and drugs, speed, asset protection, daylight, vehicles, roads, health care. In order to further understand the importance of this topic, we need to say and respect a parallel analysis of the traffic safety indicators in us and in the world. So I'll tell you what it looks like. The use of belts in front seats as far as we are concerned and in the world in Serbia is 68.1%, which is why we are far from Europe and are placed in the ranks of countries with the least use of seat belts. Traffic safety indicators as far as the back seat was concerned, when I was preparing this topic, I came up with disturbing data. In most police administrations, this percentage does not exceed 5%, and in Vranj, for example, it is at least alarming 0.5%, Kruševec 0.7%, Belgrade 5%, and the highest in Serbia is 9.3%. If I tell you and I give you the information that it's far more in the world, in one Germany, 97%, then I think we really need to do a lot more. A particularly significant question for us is all the question of the children of the travelers. They represent an extremely sensitive category and each accident has severe consequences for the children of passengers and is further concerned that 60% of the children affected by accidents are passengers. I'll give you some information here. In the last five years, 90 children have been killed, and 8,160 were injured, and in 2013 there were 11 minors up to 14 years and 1,535 with injuries and 241 with severe injuries. What do you need to do? It certainly takes a lot more to work on prevention and control. Also, when we talk about the use of protective systems, we need to say something about indicators of the degree of alcoholism that are equal in all police administrations and move to 1.2%. An important segment for me and everyone for all people who are not from Belgrade and who come from other local self-government is the security of traffic in local self-government. More specifically, the Transport Safety Act, which came into force in 2009, has for the first time defined this important area for the first time, seems to me, for all of us and then on RS territory, for the first time, there has been the establishment of local bodies for the security of traffic that lasts and today, but, from the very beginning, there has been sure that there have been a series of problems that have followed all of this. What I want to say to you is, surely, that one new legal solution needs to be adapted to regulations to make this area even more decorated. I certainly mentioned all of this as an appeal to citizens and people from the profession to prepare for the next period the government to amend and supplement laws that will treat these important areas, not only drivers and other traffic participants, but also the necessary professional drivers and road managers. Once again, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this bill on road safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1424	The word is Dr. Ljiljana Kosarić. I apologize to the MPs. The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1425	Just for a little while. So, I agree with you, and by the end of the year, we will have a proposal for a new traffic safety law that we work on together with the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Construction. I agree, there are too many traffic accidents on Serbia's roads, especially those with fatal outcomes. You know that according to all the statistics, the biggest causes of this are the unadjusted speed of movement, too much speed of movement and, of course, alcohol. We don't have to run from it. People know, who have been doing this job a lot longer than I have, what are all the measures that need to be taken. What I can promise you is that the traffic police will do their job more rigorously and rigorously, but that we should certainly adapt the legislation. Of course, I am also in the mood to work with all MPs to make this bill as good as possible, as quality as possible, and try to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1426	Thank you. The word has Ljiljana Kosorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1427	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, as a member of the Parliament at these times, I feel a great responsibility, a team before my municipality Koseric was also affected by weather disasters, floods. They've developed rinks that tend to deepen, and I'm really worried about what's going to happen in the next days and the next months. Today, the whole of Serbia is in an emergency situation, in a difficult situation. Much of the citizens of our municipalities have been affected by these catastrophic disasters, and on the other hand, the other part of our citizens are selflessly providing help. What is particularly surprising to all of us, we probably didn't expect, that all of Serbia is in one color of cheerleading teams, that they all have the same goal. I have a special appreciation for the young people of this country. Looks like we didn't give them a real chance, and only now do we see, when they're in the front lines, how much they're really worth. Solidarity is today a theme of day and even my community, although it is affected by disasters and survives the difficult moments, young people, i.e. primary and secondary school students Koseric organized to accept their peers and their families from Krupanj. A special thank you, just this moment, I want to show you both ministers and all the members of the MUP on selfless support and support, not saving their lives. I think that this topic of today's agenda is important too, but at this point we really wouldn't be taking up the time you need and the SPO, the SPO Parliament Club and the DHS will vote in favour of the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1428	The word is Vlad Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1429	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SDP are aware of the fact that there was no choice and that this proposal for amending and supplementing the law was the only solution that was possible at this time, without jeopardising the interests of both the state itself and, of course, what is most important to the National Assembly and the Government, the interests of the citizens of Serbia. However, what you mentioned in your speech, which is that in the next three-year period you will do promotional actions and that you will end this job in particular encourages in this domain, because it is most important for us to work together to change the approach of all, both political actors and citizens themselves in the approach and relation to the state itself and what the state requires, especially according to legislation and legislation. I'll compare this case to my primary interest at the university, when you give students the opportunity to have an alternative, to extend them, to move the deadlines, usually it affects their efficiency, efficiency and level of their approach to learning and gaining knowledge, and I ask you that in this next three-year period, I'm sure you'll end this job efficiently and quickly, but also other work related to the work of the MUP. The Social Democratic Party will give up some broader debates and broader debates and discussions on this topic, because we believe that, as you did in the previous few days day and night when it comes to Obrenovac, when it comes to Sabac and other devastated areas, we are sure that you are more needed and Krupnje, the colleague also said Koseric, Koceljevi and all the areas that help is needed today. This way we urge you to do what you did in the previous days and in that sense be effective and hopefully successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1430	The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1431	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, the fact that today in a situation where a three-day mourning has been declared to be the beginning of the three-day flood victims and the situation that the adverse consequences unfortunately have not been removed, it is difficult to talk about the law itself and everything that should be discussed by the Law on the Safety of Traffic on the Ways to Talk. Our parliamentary group will not take up too much time in this debate today. We will focus on the very essence of the law, on the fact that the period of validity of the old driving licenses expires within a few weeks for another three years. Our position is not to support this law in principle, that is, to wait for a statement by fellow MPs on amendments, and only then will we finally vote. The fact that up to today 1.2 million Serbian citizens have not replaced the driver's licenses also raises the issue of the ministry's efficiency over the past five years, and the question could also be asked why it took more than two years since the adoption of this law to start issuing driver's licenses in new forms. The fact that in two-and-a-half years since new driver's licenses were issued over two-and-a-half million new ones is saying that there is the Ministry's capacity to do so in a short period of time and I believe it wasn't a problem in capacity, and I believe it was a problem in one thing. When a citizen comes and takes out a document, he pays for it, counts that the document will be valid for him until the time limit indicated in that document. It is a citizen's right to use this document within that time limit, and I do not think that the state has the right to shorten that deadline, except in circumstances where we are talking about whether it is necessary to comply with certain EU rules, but I am sure and I know that in EU countries, citizens can use national documents in their countries quite safely until the expiry of the period of validity, if they want to travel outside their country's borders, then they must use these documents in accordance with the agreements their country has reached with other countries, in particular in our compliance with the EU. The idea of the amendments we've been making, our whole idea of changing this law so that old driver's licenses are practically valid until the deadline set out on them is up. We think that's how citizens exercise the right they paid for the moment they removed that document. The fact is that some citizens may be in an unequal position because they have already replaced the documents even though it took them longer, but let's just say that this is due to the approximation of the EU and the harmonisation of the documents we own if we want to travel. I believe that the largest number of people who haven't done that replacement by now are people who don't have the opportunity to travel, who use their vehicles exclusively on the roads of the Serbian state and I think that no matter how small and smallest the cost is in the region, unfortunately, and our salaries are at least in the region and I don't think there's any need to burden citizens with new costs. In the end, we will declare this law when we see what the parliamentary majority's position is after the debate and the adoption of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1432	The word has a minister, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1433	I'd like to tell you for a moment. In principle, in one part of your debate, I agree with you. However, you yourself belonged to the majority who passed a law that shortens the validity of documents to citizens and introduces new forms. It happened in 2009. It was not said, "We will wait for them to expire, but We will replace them within five years. Some people have been so deprived of these documents that they're valid until the end of time. So the state makes some decisions that it thinks are important. I believe that harmonisation with EU legislation is important and that is why we cannot suggest that these documents are now in place indefinitely. There are more elements. For example, this document is harder to counterfeit, harder to abuse when it's new, when it's carded, than when it's in old cardboard form. So I agree with you that the tendency of the state should be, if the document is valid for a year, five or ten, that the state respects what it says and that we try to make it possible for the citizens to do so. However, when certain things happen that, I say, go to the greater benefit of most citizens of Serbia, sometimes the right to some extent will be denied. In principle, I agree that we should work together to ensure that the deadlines we prescribe and the laws we make are applied and that people stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1434	The word is Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1435	Dear Presidents, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the initiative that all documents that have been lost and destroyed in floods be compensated for the cost of the state. I think it's just one small sign of attention, and that all the rest of their casualties and losses we must together as a state and as a people that in the coming days and months, without any party bickering or belongings, we must together help our endangered people. I called to say a few things. The Traffic Safety Act has not been concluded for three years, and for three years we praised it in this House and in the media that one of the best, that it has reduced the mortality rate on the roads, that it is great. Here, not even three years have passed, and it is now announced that he will suffer, not some cosmetic changes, but that he will be fully voted and placed in the process of a new traffic law. What I'm interested in as a doctor is whether the previous law, which is still valid, which provides for the control of the health condition of drivers who drive and participate in traffic, is respected in an adequate manner? I think we have a lot of examples where the owners of these private companies, whether buses or others, didn't send their drivers to regular medical exams. In addition to these health issues, I'd like to file a request to the Association of National Patients who have a stomach. The stomach is when people have a cooking problem or some tumor, and then they have an opening on their stomachs over which they take food. The national association of these patients prays that, according to the reputation of some European countries, they, with the permission of the surgeon who installed the table, are allowed not to wear a belt, because that belt presses them precisely that table which is surgically done and they have the pain of driving and the pain of putting on that belt. The application of the National Association of Patients with stomatium is for a clause to be incorporated into that future law that these patients have the right not to wear a belt if they have a report from a specialist surgeon who did this one surgery. Furthermore, in the last term, when it came to the adoption of this law, my wish was, since we all follow these European standards, that on highways in Serbia, the allowed mileage was 130km. I think we should follow those European trends. All countries in the environment have a speed of up to 130km. I know that Serbia wants to move forward, but in concrete examples, we have trains that go like 60-70 years ago, and highways where 120 may be high speed. I think we need, like, countries in the environment, to have maximum speed of up to 130 kilometers per hour. What I'm trying to say is that the DS parliamentary group is going to give up the debate from now on, in order to shorten the time of this debate in parliament, given that this is a tragedy that has not been recorded in the last 120 years and that it is a place for all of us to be and to help the citizens, and not here to bicker. This will slowly end this exhibition, with the conclusion that today's delay in the deadline I want to criticise the administration in front of the DS parliamentary group, because it has shown ineffectiveness, not only in driving licenses, but also in issuing passports. You will say – it was some previous government, and I tell you – the administration in the last ten or fifteen years does not work functionally, citizens are waiting on counters and citizens are bullied on counters. Let's fix it, so the citizens don't have any discomfort, that they get their papers a lot easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1436	The word is Vanja Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1437	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Home Affairs Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, allow me first to say that the SPS MPs will give up the further debate, aware of the situation currently in which Serbia is located, and I will try to explain the Law on Transport Security as soon as possible. At the beginning, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to say that our MPs will vote in favour of this bill to allow citizens to temporarily replace their driving licenses in old forms for a new biometric driver's license. We believe that an additional three-year period is enough for citizens to replace their old driver's licenses, driver's licenses on old forms for a new driver's license, for a number of reasons. If we have in mind that a large number of citizens have replaced their driving licences for this shorter period, as JS counterpart said, of 3,385,624 driving licences that exist in the Republic of Serbia, we have replaced more than 2,150,000 driving licences, and if we take into account the dynamics that issue new driving licences, i.e. driving licences in new patterns, we will see that this deadline and how sufficient it is for the citizens to replace their driving licenses in time. Also, if citizens do not replace their driving licences in time, citizens would have certain consequences in this regard, and above all regarding international agreements on mutual recognition of driving licences, which allow citizens to travel to EU countries without an international driver's license, i.e. with the driving licence of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to replace them in EU countries, if they so wish. Of course, that applies only to the countries with which we have signed that international agreement. I must mention that speeding up driver's licenses is also enabled by electronic driver's licenses via the Internet. It's useful for a number of reasons. First of all, it costs procedures, both for citizens and for the MUP, or for the state. I must point out that this way, by issuing driver's licenses, the tax paid to banks is reduced by a tax of up to 180 dinars. Then, the possibility of corruption decreases, because the whole process simply works on a computer, not a human. There are many other benefits. I must stress that over 15 million biometric documents have been issued in the last six years since the MUP issued biometric documents. So, for the last six years, 15 million ID cards, driver's licenses, biometric passports have been issued, which I must remind you, were also one of the conditions for visa liberalisation, i.e. the possibility for citizens to travel without visas to EU countries. This passport is one of the most modern passports in Europe and applies the standard "EAK 1.11", which is one of the most modern and we are just one of the few countries that has a passport, i.e. a fingerprint chip. Of course, there are traffic permits, etc. What the Republic of Serbia and the MUP should be proud of is that of these 15 million personal documents no counterfeits have been recorded. So out of 15 million documents, no counterfeits were recorded. On the other hand, I'd only make one more proposal at the end. So that's what I've done before with the secretary of the ministry and Chief Kasalica, since driving licences issued by electronic means to raise a citizen must come to the police station. In order for this process to be shortened, we ask you to consider the proposal that these driving licences be made to the citizens who want them to, and I think everyone will want to mail it to their home address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1438	The word is Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1439	Dear President, Mr. Minister, I agree with colleagues who have said in the debate so far that we should be effective today because the time of crucial importance for Serbia is therefore only a few sentences about changes and additions to today's laws. You, Mr. Minister, are on the Committee of Defense and Home Affairs, and here today, you've given us the reasons for passing this law. It is quite clear that in its technical mandate, the government could not pass this law, so we are doing so now in this situation, the extraordinary situation in which Serbia is, and another very important reason is because of the citizens of Serbia because the money they need to grant a new permit at this time does not have the justification for amending and supplementing this law is very clear. I just want to say a few more sentences about the new law that is envisioned and the practical expectations of citizens for this new safety law that I hope will be very soon with us on the agenda. Serbian citizens expect the new law to practically predict driving without alcohol, to provide for more severe sanctions for drunk drivers, and to reduce road accidents due to insecurity, because we believe it should be more corporate responsibility. We and this current law provide for an analysis of dangerous places and black spots on the roads. However, it is as if the current law simply does not take care of it. In the new law, we expect a more precise responsibility of the pathway and criminal prosecution if it is proven that the accident is also caused by an insecure way, i.e. a dive or a hole in the road. Also, I would say that this new law, which is expected, requires more control of the resources that the state sets out for road safety. There is some information that about 10,000 euros per km is allocated to the safety of roads, but that the money is not fully used for all that is needed to increase security. So I'm sure the task force and all of you will consider everything I've said. It's all with one goal, we don't need a lot of money to reduce mortality on the roads. I also received many calls from car owners who simply say that under the current law they cannot meet all the conditions, so that these car schools are open and running. There is some information that about 900 of these car schools have been shut down so far, because they have heavy regulations, I don't know the polygon has to be 51 long, and 7 meters wide and many other regulations for them. In this way, it will also be called into question the training itself and the general issue of these driving licences, so I ask you to find somewhere somewhere somewhere between strict rules and incentives for private entrepreneurship. In the end, I would like to inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1440	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1441	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister Stefanovic, is my opinion that the proposal for this law proves that a huge mistake was made in 2009 when it was decided to shorten the time of validity of old driving licenses and it is unusual for me to repeat the same mistake with this bill. I'd like to, if that's okay, explain this attitude. So, we all know, I think the driver's license is a document confirming that someone has mastered the skills of a particular category of vehicle. This document, the driver's license in this case, should be valid for as long as is intended, if it is intended to be valid for 10 years, then it should be valid for 10 years. Not five, as predicted in 2009, not eight as predicted now by this change, but 10 years. The State, therefore, has issued the correct document of a certain period of validity and I do not see that there is any reason for that document to put the state's decision out of effect beyond the set period of validity. The government has argued in favour of this bill that changes only one word, the government is using an argument that citizens can be denied for many rights if they use an old driver's license, an old-fashioned driver's license. The driver's license on old forms, as far as I know, and I've been checking additionally in preparation for this debate, is valid in all European countries. So there is no EU Member State that will prevent our drivers coming from Serbia from driving their car on the roads of any EU country. Our drivers are not deprived of anything in their rights. I think thousands of Serbian drivers driving on European roads can testify. Furthermore, I think I have an important argument here, the government's approach to this issue implies that citizens are exposed to the cost and waste of time, but not only that, we are now not only exposing citizens to the cost and waste of time, but the MUP, in my court, is being buried with unnecessary work. This time that the administration is going to do, and we're constantly criticizing the administration that it's not effective, that it's not working fast enough, and we're constantly burying that administration with some kind of work that I don't think is necessary. Instead of burying the M.O.P. now and this job, I think those people working there should be doing some other smart work at this time, for example. to digitize all parent books. It's one of the important things that can be done. In the end, I think it's a government approach that the government in this case, to say the state, sees a minority citizen as a minor. So, Mr. Stefanovic, he's not a state citizen or a mom, nor dad has to hold his hand when he crosses a crosswalk, that he explains that he will benefit greatly when he crosses the border and enters EU countries. I guess the citizen is serious enough to say in Serbia, too, that he can judge for himself whether he's benefiting or not. If he's using it, he'll figure out if he wants to change his old driver's license to a new one. If he estimates he doesn't care then he won't change it, but it doesn't take the state to work on behalf of that citizen, but I'm a citizen. For example, I have an old driver's license, it goes to me by 2018. I estimated that with that driver's license I could go to any EU country whenever I wanted to, no one ever asked me for this international driver's license, and that driver's license in an old form was enough for me to have all the rights. So, I think it would be best to accept the amendment that Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted that driver's licenses can last for 10 years, not to deny citizens the possibility that they will decide whether or not they will use that permit and if they decide that it is useful for him, it's all right, but the state on his behalf does not think she should work. I think it would be very good to reconsider our amendment and ensure that citizens decide for themselves whether their old driver's license will be valid for all 10 years as I think it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1442	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1443	Unfortunately, you heard from the debate of some other colleagues how quickly it was necessary to make documentation, or to change passports forms so that we could get visa liberalisation. If it hadn't been done so quickly, we would still be waiting for that visa liberalisation and doing damage both to our economies and to people travelling abroad. However, when you consider what many people have been saying in the last five, 10 or 15 years, it doesn't matter, then look where we are, when we're talking about documents in 2014, and I'd be happiest if we'd done this a lot sooner, and we're talking about other things today. But at this point, the assessment is that we need to pass a law like this, because one part of the people will protect it, because you need it when you go abroad, an international driver's license, and whether or not someone asked you for it, the law is that, and you need it. If you don't have it, you're putting yourself at risk and you have to pay a certain penalty. However, in addition to those reasons which are obvious and clear, I think that harmonisation of the rules with EU legislation, something that goes in favour of all citizens of Serbia, and it is not only about these people who have yet to replace their documents, but also about other citizens of Serbia, the speed of EU accession depends on how fast we do business and how operationally we replace, or how we fulfil the obligations we have made. I'd still like to say about the Traffic Safety Act. The truth is that the law that was passed in 2009, reduced the number of car accidents, reduced the number of deaths, and affected the improvement of our roads. Of course, it always turns out over time that some things can be changed, that we can promote them. Experience has shown that some things need to be changed further, and I think it's important that we all work together, because if we found that even the reduction of that level of alcohol in the blood that the 2009 law predicted is insufficient, let's go to a complete ban. Let's go get some other stuff. So, and what other colleagues have been saying, let's look at all the cases, let's look at what we can do and help the citizens, and as Home Secretary, I'm ready to work with everyone, with people who have good ideas, who have experience from the MUP and other state bodies and who used to do this job and know what they might suggest and put into some future law, and make that law better and better than it is today. So in that sense, I think we'll all be on the same mission. As far as this is concerned, we believe that this is important for the citizens of Serbia and that it is less harm to extend the deadline than to have it gone at all or to begin with the application of the law since June 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1444	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1445	Dear colleagues, presidents, Minister Stefanovic, you have the opportunity to correct the mistakes of the former government and this is a very simple opportunity to show that mistakes can be corrected and that it can be done to the benefit of citizens, without any additional funding, financial, for citizens, either for Serbia's budget. I feel called from your last sentence as someone who has something to do with the work in the MUP and the state authorities, so let's take a historical look at the process of issuing biometric documents in Serbia. Equipment for issuing biometric documents in Serbia was purchased in November 2003 and bought in an international tender, under the best conditions of the best bidders, and already in January 2004 could be used. Of course, then there were elections, there was a new government, and then there was another new one, and then there was a new one, and that equipment was standing in wooden crates as it was delivered to the coin store by 2009, so, five or six years ago, the equipment was unopened, and then some government in 2009 remembered that it had this equipment and had an obligation to issue biometric passports, to get a white Schengen, and then they just started doing it. Six years missed, then. For two years, people should have remembered that the same equipment could also issue driver's licenses, so only in January 2011, again, a government that dealt with some other business rather than for the good of the people, above all, missed eight years of use of that equipment that could have solved the problem that we have today. Of course, driver's licenses began to be issued, these modern, modern, and of course the five-year deadline was short, because no law of that kind has been implemented in Serbia in the last 20 and a few years. Does this have anything to do with the state of the nation's spirit, with the government, with bureaucracy, with politics? In any case, no law of that kind has been implemented in that area so quickly. It's all done to make bureaucracy, first of all, the high bureaucracy, the one sitting, not today directly next to the minister, what I'm saying doesn't apply to those present, but that red tape that's at the top, that crown of bureaucracy, that it keeps its secret power and that's why it complicates the lives of the citizens. That's why we have this bill of law that's not the idea of a minister and it's not his fault, but we're trying, Mr. Pavicevic and I, to get this thing back on track. So, the former government's mistake is that it's given such a deadline. The documents issued for 10 years should be valid for 10 years. Whether I will have problems because I travel to EU countries with permission, it is my personal matter, no one has a problem with that. The replacement of driving licences is nowhere in any part of the negotiations with the EU. There is no such thing in any of the countries, so we do not draw the EU when it comes to something. This adds to the abuse of Serbian citizens, costs would be, whether today or in two years, it is not important, but it is one pressure that, in a difficult situation in which Serbia has been in the last seven days, on our citizens. What's the solution? The solution is to adopt our amendment that leads to old driving licences valid until the expiry date, which is normal, and whoever wants to replace them before, can replace them before, to simplify the process of replacing driver's licenses. The driver's license I have or two million people who haven't changed yet is a valid permit from the state to me. It is a normal procedure for me to put it in a mailing order with a return to send to an address that I have sent to Serbia's MUP to place, money or payment certificate, photos if necessary, an old permit, and to receive a home address in the same post office, a letter, a new permit in seven days. It's done in the good part of the world. There are some other things that need to be reconsidered. The question of driving over the day with the middle light. It's the same thing someone introduced a few years ago as the EU, and in Germany it's not driving like that, and that Germany is a little norther than Serbia, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1446	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? None of the MPs. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1447	In the end, I just want to thank all the MPs and all the MPs for their understanding. Thank you for this quick and efficient work and allow me to take this opportunity to thank all the people who are day and night, who are now working to build up embankments and clean up and to deliver food and water and all that it takes to overcome this huge cataclysm. Let me take the opportunity to thank all the members of the MUP, I've only been a minister for a few weeks, but the energy of these people who really don't sleep, who do that from all sectors and all lines of work, and it assures me that we can fight crime and corruption faster and more effectively, but also solve these problems that we talked about today. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1448	I am concluding a principled search on the draft law amending the Law on traffic safety on the roads. I want to thank Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic once again for attending the session today. I ask the MPs to stay, we will continue to work. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for decisions in point. On the 13th-19th agenda, before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that it corresponds to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search of the point. 13-19th agenda. Do the proposing, or representatives of the proposing, want a word? (No) Does the committee's rapporteur want a word? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I am concluding a single search on the proposals for decisions in point. 13-19th agenda. You received a motion for a decision by the State's Major Prosecutors. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to article 193 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single investigation into the motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor. I ask the MPs to wait a few seconds for a proposal representative, Branko Stamenkovic, member of the State Council of Prosecutors. Does the proposing representative, Branko Stamenkovic, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1449	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, today is my special honor and pleasure to welcome you on behalf of the State Council of Prosecutors and to explain our proposal for the election of deputy public prosecutors in public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with the provisions of Art. 78th and 79th. Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the State's Chief Prosecutors announced a choice for deputy public prosecutors in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 2/14 of 10 January 2014 and the daily list "Politika" of 13 January 2014. A procedure has been carried out for all candidates registered who fulfil the law laid down for the election of deputy public prosecutors, in accordance with the Article. 25-36. Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors. The special selection commission, after the deadline for submission of applications, checked the timely and completeness of submitted applications and dismissed untimely and incomplete applications. The Commission sent timely and complete applications to the State's chief prosecutor for further proceedings. Upon receipt of the application, the State's Major Prosecutors, acting in accordance with Article 80. The Public Prosecutor's Law provided information and opinions on the expertise, competence and dignity of candidates from the authorities and organisations in which the candidate worked in the legal profession. State's major prosecutor, according to Article 81. The Public Prosecutor's Law decided before the election decision was made, to hold talks with candidates for the election and then set out a proposal for the election of deputy public prosecutors. Candidates have been informed on time and place of talks. In accordance with Article 30(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the State's Chief Prosecutors shall, in accordance with Article 30(2). Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, an educated working body, a Commission of three members to hold talks with candidates. In accordance with Art. 30-32. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, the Commission of the State Council of Three Members held talks and submitted a report to the Council on the results of each candidate in particular and proposed to elect candidates who meet the conditions. Following an interview, a record was drawn up in a form prescribed by the Council and all members of the Council who participated in the interview gave their opinion on the candidate on the basis of which the Council decided on the election. The Rules of Procedure of the State Council of Prosecutors, Article 33, stipulates that the majority of votes set out the list of candidates who meet the conditions for the election. The state's major prosecutors proposed a choice for deputy public prosecutors who met the criteria on the basis of which expertise, training and dignity are determined. The vote took place in accordance with Article 35. Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, through written ballots, which contain a list of all candidates who meet the conditions for the election. The state's major prosecutors decided on each election individually, mostly by all members, and on the basis of Article 82. Public prosecutor's law. On the basis of the above, the State Major Prosecutors proposed the following candidates: - for the Deputy Public Prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Pančev - Mirjan Milicevic; - for the Deputy Public Prosecutor at the General Prosecutor's Office in Arangelovac – Slavica S. Despotović; - for the Deputy Public Prosecutor at the First General Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade - Vladimir Perunović and Smiljko Stojanović; - for the Deputy Public Prosecutor in the Second General Prosecutor in the Second General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade – Nina Varjačić and Biljan Cerović; - for the Deputy Public Prosecutor in Belgrade – Mr. Mirdžov Đaljov Đarić in the public prosecutor's office, Mr. Kražov Živić, Mr. Živ Živživ Živić, Mr. Živić, Mr. Živić, Mr. Kražov Živić, Mr. Živ, Mr. Živ, Mr. Mr. Živ, Mr. Živ, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Slav, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Žažovžović, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Žažović, Mr. Žažović, Mr. Žažov, Mr. Žažav, Mr. Žažav, Mr. The detailed résumés of all the candidates proposed today to the National Assembly are in the material that has been sent to you. I'd like to complete the presentation of the candidates and be open to any questions. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1450	Thank you. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Do any of the MPs want a word? (No) Since no word has been reported on the lists of MPs, there are no MPs who have applied for the word, I conclude a single search. After we have conducted this unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Thank you. You have received the motion for a decision made by the president of the National Assembly. Before opening a single search, I remind you that in accordance with Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3, but corresponding to Article 157. Article 1 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. As a proposal, I don't want to explain the decision. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( b) The conditions are met to conclude a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. You have received a proposal for the appointment of Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly, who was submitted by Secretary-General Jana Ljubicic. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Proposer, Secretary General Jana Ljubicic is not in the O.R. right now, but she said there was no need to explain the proposal you already received. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( b) The conditions are met to conclude a unique search. After a search, the National Assembly will decide on a motion to appoint the deputy general secretary of the National Assembly in the voting day. You received a motion for a decision taken by the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3, but with Article 157(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Djordje Milicevic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Until the opening of a single search for a written word application, no parliamentary group has submitted. This meets the conditions to conclude a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. It's 11.25. I'm setting a break to 12.20 hours to consult with the heads of Parliament. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 168 of the 3rd and 4th centuries. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, during the session of the National Assembly, may be placed on the agenda of the session with extraordinary urgency on the basis of proposals for selection, appointment and resolution and termination of office, provided that the sittings are attended by the majority of the total number of MPs. On any proposal for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, the National Assembly shall, without delay, decide, when setting the agenda, or during the sitting, immediately upon receipt of the proposal, provided that the sittings are attended by the majority of the total number of MPs. In view of the fact that several new proposals for putting on the agenda for emergency acts during the sitting have been made in accordance with these provisions, and given that the majority of the total number of MPs attends today's session, the conditions for the National Assembly to declare these proposals have been met. I ask you first to determine the voting quorum. I find that 150 MPs are present, so we meet the conditions to move on to a decision on proposals. The High Council of the Court, pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Court of Justice. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the second session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 should be included in the agenda of the second session of the 2014 Point: Proposal for a DECISION on the Election of the President of Infringement Courts. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, v – six abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the total 166 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Council of the Court, pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Court of Justice. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the second session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 should be included in the agenda of the second session of the 2014 Point: Proposal for a DECISION on the Election of the President of the Fundamental Courts. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, v – five, abstentions – there are no votes, seven of the total of 168 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Council of the Court, pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Court of Justice. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the second session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 should be included in the agenda of the second session of the 2014 Point: Proposal for a DECISION on the Election of the President of the Economic Courts. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – five abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Council of the Court, pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Court of Justice. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the second session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 should be included in the agenda of the second session of the 2014 Point: Proposal for a DECISION on the Election of the President of the Higher Courts. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, v – five abstentions – there is no, 12 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Council of the Court, pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Court of Justice. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the second session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 point: Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Appeal in the New USA. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Council of the Court, pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Court of Justice. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the second session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 should be placed on the agenda of the second session of the 2014 Point: Proposal for a DECISION ON THE CHOICE OF THE JUDGES TO BE PURPOSEED TO THE JUDICIAL FUNCTION. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – five abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Council of the Court, pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Court of Justice. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the second session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 be placed on the agenda of the second session of the 2014 Point: Proposal for a DECISION ON THE CHOICE OF A JUDGE TO BE PURPOSEED TO THE JUDICIAL FUNCTION. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – six abstentions – there is no vote, 10 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Council of the Court, pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Court of Justice. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the second session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 should be placed on the agenda of the second session of the 2014 Point: Proposal for a DECISION ON THE CHOICE OF THE JUDGES TO BE PURPOSEED TO THE JUDICIAL FUNCTION. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – five abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the total attendance of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. You have received a motion for a decision submitted by the High Council of the Judiciary on the election of the President of the Criminal Courts. Before the search is opened, I remind you that according to Articles 201 and 202 in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 201. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are opening a search. Do the representatives of Proposer Dragomir Milojevic, president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary want a word? According to Businessman Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1452	Dear President, I think you've hurt Article 27. A Rules of Procedure which says that the President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. We have just put on the agenda a few points for selecting the highest judicial authorities in the state of Serbia, and we received that material this morning. So there is no minimum time limit of 24 hours for MPs to get acquainted with the material so they can prepare for the debate. A large number of these decisions by the High Council of Justice were made at the session on 8 and 9 May 2014, but it was delivered to the Assembly, standing here during yesterday, I don't know at what time, but I know we only got these materials this morning, and I don't know how you expect us to participate in the debate on the appointment of 61 candidates for the presidents of the basic courts, 41 candidates for presidents of the criminal courts, 15 candidates for presidents of economic courts. We haven't even been able to read the entire material, let alone get to know each other and we can participate in the debate. I understand the haste, but I don't understand that this is how you violate the Rules of Procedure and put MPs in a position that they cannot actively and quality participate in the debate. You announced in your session that you would consult with the heads of the parliamentary groups, and there were no consultations. I've been waiting for an invitation to see what's going on and I really don't see how we can participate in the debate. We pray that in the day of the vote, we plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1453	Yeah. You didn't wait for an explanation, so I'm going to ask you after the argument whether you'll accept the explanation or then you want to join the vote in the day to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Article 168(3) clearly defines an emergency procedure in these cases. The procedure has been carried out, the committee responsible has given its opinion, and if you are not satisfied with the argument in the voting day we will vote? You're not. So in voting day there will be a vote. Does the president want a word? The word is Miroljub Tomic, deputy president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1454	Thank you very much. Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me first to welcome you on behalf of the High Council of the judiciary, I am, as the President of the National Assembly told Miroljub Tomic, Deputy President of the High Council of the Judiciary, and today I am here in the Republic Parliament in order to tell you, but also to the citizens of Serbia who are following, I suppose, the transfer of this assembly session, presented and explained the proposal for a VSS that concerns the choice of the President of the Courts in the Republic of Serbia after the competitions previously discussed. Together with me today in the Assembly are Mira Ivić, vice president of the VSS and colleagues, members of VSS Sonja Vidinović, Branka Bancevic and Stojikovski Aleksandar. As we know, at the session of the VSS, held on 20 December 2013, a decision was made to announce the election for the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad and for the presidents of senior courts, and at the session of the VSS, held on 30 January 2014, a decision was made to announce the election for the presidents of the basic courts, the presidents of the economic courts and the presidents of the criminal courts. I note that 355 candidates have applied to these competitions overall. In the process of proposing candidates for the election of presidents of the abovementioned courts, the VSS first made a decision on the education of committees to elect the President of the Courts, which held talks with the candidates, and the task of these committees was, in addition, to carry out a review of the applications submitted to the ad, to determine their completeness and timelyness, to hold talks with the registered candidates who applied for the election for the Presidents of the Courts, and to assess whether the candidates meet the criteria for the election. In addition, the Commission’s task was to establish what kind of communication the judges, i.e. the officers of the duties of the President of individual courts, who were then in those functions, have achieved communication with all relevant and relevant institutions, such as the police, the prosecution, the post office and the like. On the basis of the Commission's report on the selection of the President of the Courts, and taking into account the opinions of the session of all judges, the VSS held at the meetings of the VSS on 8 9 and 20 May 2014, established that the proposed candidates, whose names are listed in the material, which was submitted to you in support of the proposal for this decision, met all the criteria and criteria for selecting the President of the Court for which they applied, and is based on Article 13(4). The VSS Act and Article 70. The Law on Judges, the VSS established a draft decision to elect a president for the abovementioned courts and proposed that they be elected by this parliament. I note that the VSS, or the competent commissions of the VSS, held talks with a total of 337 candidates, and that a total of 141 proposals were proposed for the election for the highest functions when it came to the presidents of the courts in the Republic of Serbia. During the proposal, we were aware of the fact that for three or four years in all courts, almost all courts in Serbia, the situation of the court president is significant, given that all, therefore, the VSS and the courts and this Assembly, that is, the Parliament, the Government and all relevant factors in the Republic of Serbia are ahead of us with a national strategy to implement judicial reform in the coming period, as well as the action plan resulting from this national strategy. So, if it were important to all of us, and I believe that it is so that, at the head of all courts in the Republic of Serbia, professional, highly moral people with expressed organisational abilities that would make a great contribution to increasing efficiency in the Republic of Serbia, increasing quality, expertise, urgency, but above all, and responsibility, I consider not only for those of us who work in the judiciary but also for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Since we have previously attended the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we have taken the view that only to deliver a list of these registered candidates that we are submitting to you, this is how we do, and of course all the members of the VSS are here in the National Assembly ready to answer any questions that you have as MPs. So much for this opening address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1455	Thank you. People's MP Gordana Komic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1456	I thank the chairman. My wish is to remind you of the need for all session participants to respect Article 106, which obliges them to talk about the agenda point. Because of the way we agreed to come to the search points from 24 to 31, there is neither a joint search nor a single search, so the proposer is obliged to speak only of the agenda point that is open. I fully understand that it is necessary to appoint people, i.e. to agree to the decisions of the National Assembly on appointments for the Presidents of the High Court of Appeals in Novi Sad, for the choice of judges who are elected for the first time, but the urgency of this procedure cannot interfere with us in respect of the rules of business. If there was an agreement, I don't think it would be slow to agree that, past the Rules of Procedure and on a unique search of all these agenda points, but that didn't happen. So the authorised promoter practically told everything that his obligation was to all the points of the agenda, and only point 24 was opened. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Criminal Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1457	Thank you. Surely Miroljub Tomic, VSS deputy president, does not come here often and did not know at this time that not all the points we are discussing here are united. We wanted to be tolerated and I let her finish her presentation, but you're right, they're not united these points we're discussing right now, so we're certainly going to offer to address each other at other points. At this point, he's got the information he needs, and I'm left with just to ask you if you want us to come forward in voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1458	No, it's not my intention, it's to respect the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1459	Thank you. Also after the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1460	Infringement of Rule 168 of Rules of Procedure which states that the draft law for which an emergency procedure is proposed may be included in the agenda of the National Assembly session if it is submitted no later than 24 hours before the start of that session. So, the requirement that, as far as we received a letter from the VSS, under Article 168 today, these points of the agenda are discussed, was delivered to the Assembly on 21 May, so today, at 10.15 hours. Not that it's been 24 hours, but it's been 2.30 hours. I understand the haste, I understand the need for certain things to end, but don't let us question the legality and work of Parliament on such an important agenda. I especially urge it to be done, to end this session now, to make a deal with what and how and how. Do not use this situation and the fact that the country is in an emergency and that in this way you are violating the Rules of Procedure and at such an important point of the agenda. We are ready for every deal, but first respect us and give us the opportunity to agree and talk to us, and secondly, if you do not, then we must insist on the Rules of Procedure and work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1461	Thank you. I would also like to give one notice, since my colleague Djurisic was not in the previous session, although he is a lot called by the MP, and we have held this session many times in the previous session in this way, so that according to Article 168, which is a lex specialis, I can read to you – during the session of the National Assembly, an emergency session can be placed on the agenda of the session and a proposal for selection, appointment and resolution and termination of the function, a proposal for a vote of mistrust to the Government, etc., but provided that the session is attended by most of the total number of MPs. Since all the conditions are met, so we can just keep working. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Petar Petrovic, as rapporteur of the board of directors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1462	I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the VSS, on behalf of the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, that, in order not to appear on every item of the agenda, I will speak in general about all these proposals that are on the agenda today, and this is about the election of the President of the Supreme Court, the basic courts, the economic courts, the criminal courts, the judges who are elected for the first time at the judicial office of some courts, as well as the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. At its session held today, the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government unanimously supported the proposal for a VSS and forwarded it to the National Assembly with a proposal that the National Assembly in the voting day accept proposals for the presidents of those courts set out by the VSS. Therefore, none of the proposed candidates of the Committee members have been disputed in any word, so the Committee has fully accepted the proposal for a VSS and I think it is one quality, which means that the VSS has done the job in the procedure it has carried out and which lasted more than two months from the day of the opening of the competition for all the presidents of those courts until the day of the proposal, in the best possible way, professionally, securely, considering all the candidates declared for the presidents of certain courts and that with that proposal, I would ask the honourable colleagues, fellow Members, MPs and MPs to unanimously support those proposals in the day of voting and to finally elect the presidents of all courts in the Republic of Serbia and to v.f. The situation, which unfortunately takes nearly four years in Serbia's judiciary, is once put into an ad act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1463	Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. After we've done a search, the National Assembly will decide on a draft decision in the voting day. We now move to the 25th point of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the president of the basic courts. You received a motion for a decision made by the VSS. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Articles 201 and 202, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. You've been given time in the proposal. The prayer groups that unless they have already made an immediate application for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 201. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1464	I'm going to explain a little bit more about the election, or the motion for a decision to elect the president of the basic courts. Of course, by respecting the time of MPs, and yet to explain the work of the VSS Commission, as well as the VSS itself. On the basis of Article 47a as regards Article 80(1), The Law on Judges, the VSS is in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No. 8/2014, on 29 January 2014, as well as in the daily list "Politika" on 30 January 2014, announced a choice for 66 of the presidents of basic courts in the Republic of Serbia. In the process of proposing candidates for the selection of the President of the Basic Courts, the VSS is based on Article 52. Rules of Procedure on the work of the VSS, published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No. At its meeting on 23 January 2014, 29/13, it adopted a Decision on the Education of the Commission for the Election of the President of the Courts. As has been said, the Commission's task was to carry out a review of the applications submitted to the ad, to determine their completeness and well-timedness, to hold talks with candidates who applied for the election for the President of the Court and to assess whether the candidates met the criteria for the election. 175 candidates submitted an ad for the election of the president of the basic courts. In addition to the application, candidates for the president of the basic courts submitted short biographies and a work programme showing their vision of the problems in the functioning of the court for which they submitted their application, the way they overcame them and ideas to improve the work of the court. In accordance with Article 70(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on Judges and Article 50(2) Rules of Procedure on the work of the High Council of the Judiciary, the High Council of the Judiciary has obtained for all candidates the opinion of the session of all judges in which the candidate was elected as judge and session of all judges of the court for whom the election of the President of the Court is proposed. On 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 and 31 March and 2, 3 and 4 April 2014, the Commission for the selection of the President of the Courts held talks with a total of 172 candidates who submitted their applications for the election of the President of the Basic Courts. On the basis of the Commission's report on the selection of the President of the Courts, and taking into account the opinions of the session of all judges and the programme of work delivered, the High Council of the Court of Justice has established which candidates meet all the criteria for selecting the president of the basic courts prescribed by Article 69. The Law on Judges and Article 12. Decisions laying down criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents, published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", No 49/2009. On the basis of Article 13(4), Law on the High Council of the judiciary, and regarding Article 70. The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Court, held at meetings on 8 May 9 and 20 May 2014, laid down a proposal for a decision to elect the president of the basic courts and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the selection of 61 candidates whose names are listed in the proposal submitted by the High Council to this Parliament, or to the National Assembly. I note that the High Council of the Judiciary has not delivered, or established, a proposal for the selection of the President of the Courts, when it comes to the basic courts, in the Court of Justice in Dimitrovgrad, because there were no candidates reported, and then at the Court of Justice in Zrenjanin, the Court of First Instance in Lebanon, the Court of First Instance in Prokuplje, the Court of Fundamental Court in Shid, because no proposal has been established by the High Court of Justice, for the reasons why the High Court of Justice has assessed that the applicants declared do not meet the criteria laid down in the provision of Article 12. Decisions on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, skills and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents, which was published, as I said in 2009. Accordingly, the Supreme Cassation Court will form a committee to exercise control and supervision in courts where no choice has been made, or a proposal for a candidate for election in these basic courts which I have referred to ahead and propose measures to remove the problems identified in the work of these courts, and the High Council of the Court will call a competition and then, after that, make the selection of the candidates reported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1465	I would like to thank the rapporteur's representative. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I'm finishing the search. After we have conducted the search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 26th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Economic Courts you have received a proposal for a decision which has been taken by the High Council of the judiciary. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Articles 201 and 202, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, according to the order you received. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of Members of Parliament, according to Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (No) Does the committee's rapporteur want a word? (No) Do representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I'm finishing the search. After we have conducted the search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We are crossing the 27th point of the agenda – the proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Higher Courts has been adopted by the proposal for a decision which has been made by the High Council of the judiciary. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to an article. In accordance with Article 97 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(1) and Article 202 of Regulation (EU) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated according to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs from members of parliamentary groups. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 201. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (No) Does the committee's rapporteur want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I'm finishing the search. After we have conducted the search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 28th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE PRESIDENT OF THE APPELACION COURT IN THE NEW NOW You have received a proposal for a decision which has been taken by the High Council of the Judiciary. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to an article. In accordance with Article 97 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(1) and Article 202 of Regulation (EU) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1466	Given the fact that it is the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, as is known, the National Assembly held at one of the previous meetings the selection of the President of the Court of Appeals and the election was then made for the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac and the Court of Appeal in Nis, and then there were no candidates for the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, so since it is one of the highest courts in the Republic of Serbia, I would like to explain this proposal on behalf of the proposing in short lines. As is known, the High Judicial Council announced the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad on 20 December 2014. In an ad for the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, Novica Pekovic, Judge of the Supreme Cassation Court and acting as President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, submitted the application. The panel for the election of the president of the courts held talks with Judge Novica Pekovic on 29 January 2014. On the basis of the Commission's report on the selection of the President of the Courts, taking into account the attached opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court, the opinion of the session of all judges of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad and the programme of work delivered, the High Council of the Court found that Novica Pekovic, Judge of the Supreme Court of Cassation, met all the criteria for selecting the President of the Court and prescribed by Article 69. The law on judges and the provision of Article 12. Decisions laying down criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents of courts and laid down a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad and proposed to the National Assembly, i.e. This parliament, that Novica Pekovic, the Supreme Cassation Court judge, is elected President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. News Pekovic was born in 1950. The Faculty of Law in Belgrade graduated in 1973 and passed the judicial exam in 1975. He has served as judge since November 1977, when he was elected judge at the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, where he acted in criminal matter and was president of the Criminal Department. He was elected Judge of the District Court in Belgrade in 1994, and was elected Serbian Supreme Court Judge in 1999 and served until 31 December 2009. He was the President of the Criminal Department and the Head of Judicial Practice, and by the decision of the First Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of 25 December 2009, his duties as Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia had ceased, and in the procedure of the execution of the Constitutional Court decision, which adopted appeals by unelected judges, the decision of the Supreme Council of the Court of Justice of 13 November 2012, was elected as a permanent judge of the Supreme Cassation Court. He acted in criminal matter and was president of the Supreme Cassation Court Penitentiary Department. By decision of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court of 12 April 2013, he was appointed acting as acting President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, which he continues to serve. Judge Novica Pekovic participated in numerous professional seminars and round tables in the country and abroad, he authored several professional papers and sentences published in the Serbian Supreme Court and Supreme Cassation Court bulletins. He was a member of the High Council of Justice until March 2009, and participated in the work of working groups to draft several laws. The General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court unanimously gave a positive opinion on Novi Pekovic for the Supreme Court of Cassation for the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, which was particularly appreciated by the High Council of the Judiciary in proposing Novi Pekovic to elect the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. Through a long-term internship, he has shown great expertise, knowledge of rights, he has authored a large number of professional works, which makes him an asset among colleagues. The possession of organisational skills has shown as head of the Criminal Department at the Supreme Cassation Court, the Supreme Court of Serbia and the lower court. Since the appointment of the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, he has been very prominent in the organisational capacity, in the management of the court, and the good work of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad has also been established during the controls carried out by judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation recently. At a session of judges of the Novi Sad Court of Appeals when giving an opinion on a candidate for the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, Novica Pekovic, the Supreme Cassation Court judge also received unanimous support for the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. In an opinion delivered by the session of all judges of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, it is noted that Novica Pekovic is one of the most professional judges, who easily solves the most complex criminal cases, and since being appointed as acting president of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, he has achieved extremely good co-operation for court employees. When proposing candidates for the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, the High Council of the Judiciary had also taken into account the successful organisation of work in the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad since Novica Pekovic was appointed as acting as acting judge, and he particularly appreciated the work programme aimed at increasing the efficiency of the work of the court, as well as the efficiency and quality of the work of the district, higher and basic courts. Also, Novica Pekovic has shown great involvement in the work of the Commission of the High Judicial Council for the deployment of employees in the establishment of new basic courts in the Novi Sad Court of Appeal, which began on 1 January 2014. Otherwise, Novica Pekovic is a judge who is known to almost all the judges in the Republic of Serbia, as an outstanding scientist and acquaintance of Criminal Law, a man who enjoys outstanding reputation and trust among judges and as such was proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary for the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1467	I would like to thank the rapporteur's representative. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? I give the word to the MP, Dr. Janko Veseinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1468	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representative of the Proposer, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Marko Djurisic, has already pointed out the fact that today's debate has started in a way that does not correspond to the seriousness of this topic. In fact, at this point, we need to decide on the election of over a hundred of the country's most responsible judicial functions, to finish the debate and to vote, and we got the proposals just over two hours ago. That way we could get to know those suggestions in two hours over a hundred people. Do you think at that time it could have been done in a quality way? These people need to organize courts, perform judicial functions, establish a legal system, which, we'll all agree, is not at a high level, or the state of justice is not on an adequate level. We had a reform of the judiciary that had its faults and certainly had to make some adjustments. After that, we had, freely said, the unselective return of all people who had lost their functions, among them and those who were not worthy of performing judicial functions. After the re-entry of the judges, the efficiency of the judiciary has not improved. The number of pending cases has not been reduced, the number of cases that go out of date has not decreased, we happen to have people with 50 criminal charges sitting on the loose and that's our judicial system. In particular, we now need to elect the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. We were able to talk about this president in a way when he was a proposal to elect V.D. in this place and there were certain reserves. There was an indication of the fact that the proposed candidate had elements that could, the performer of a judicial function, mark as unworthy to perform that function. There were data that were presented and confirmed by Mr Dragomir Milojevic, then the president of the Supreme Cassation Court and the High Council of the judiciary that the proposed candidate received by means of a will half of Belgrade's apartment and garage from the party in whose favour he ruled. So ten months after the verdict in his favour, the party's will left the apartment and garage in Belgrade for the benefit of the judge. There were certain excuses that it was not contrary to the law. I'm not sure that we in the parliamentary group had time to analyze it properly and give this particular proposal our position. We happen to remember this debate, and we accidentally called to discuss this proposal. The other proposals we couldn't even analyze in these two hours in a valid way. First, the session is scheduled as scheduled, by emergency procedure. It was an appointment with the heads of Parliament. We didn't know we were going to talk about such an important subject and we're not ready to vote on these proposals. We are not prepared for the reasons we do not know whether these proposals are adequate and whether in a year we will realize that we voted, raised our hand for people who will not perform this function properly. In that sense, I believe that the proposer should withdraw not only this proposal but all other proposals, give us enough time for at least 24 hours to make these proposals known, so that they do not bring us into an awkward situation and us out of the opposition that we may have a slightly more favourable position in terms of not voting for these proposals, but for the people of the position to consider these proposals and to know that they choose the most responsible functions of the people who deserve it. I believe it's most of these people, but I'm sure we didn't have enough time to analyze it properly and I repeat once again that there's a chance that the country is being put on the agenda that doesn't deserve to be put in this way and I think they're questioning Parliament's seriousness and the seriousness of the decisions it might already make today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1469	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the search is concluded, I ask whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to speak. Rules of Procedure. (No) I'm finishing the search. After we've done a search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft decision. We are moving to the 29th item of the agenda – the motion for a decision on the election of the Judges who are first elected to the Judicial Order You have received a proposal for a decision which has been taken by the High Council of the Judiciary. Before the search opens, I remind you that in accordance with Article 201, 202, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours and as if this time were allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs and members of parliamentary groups. I ask the MPs' groups if they are not already to apply immediately for a word with the order of MPs and in agreement with Article 201. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (No) Does the committee's rapporteur want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. (No) I'm finishing the search. After we have done a search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. We move to the 30th point of the agenda – the motion for a decision on the election of a judge who is elected for the first time at the Judge's office you have received a proposal for a decision which has been taken by the High Council of the Judiciary. Before the search opens, I remind you that in accordance with Article 201, 202, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours and as if this time were allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs and members of parliamentary groups. I ask the MPs' groups if they are not already to apply immediately for a word with the order of MPs and in agreement with Article 201. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (No) Does the committee's rapporteur want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. (No) I'm finishing the search. After we have done a search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. We are moving to the 31st point of the agenda – the motion for a decision on the election of the Judges who are first elected to the COURT FUNCTION You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by the High Council of the Court on 13 December 2013, with a renewed request from 20 May 2014. Before the search opens, I remind you that in accordance with Article 201, 202, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours and as if this time were allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs and members of parliamentary groups. I ask the MPs' groups if they are not already to apply immediately for a word with the order of MPs and in agreement with Article 201. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (No) Does the committee's rapporteur want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. (No) I'm finishing the search. After we have done a search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Just one notice to give you, honourable MPs, in accordance with Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, if necessary, the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours today, and the longest until the end of the search in detail on the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, and in view of the need for the National Assembly to adopt acts from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. Now in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break of one hour, I apologize, for an hour and 45 minutes, and we continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue today's work. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the promoters, Dr Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, I have called for the sittings to attend: Nina Fira, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Danica Polic, Assistant at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Gordan Govedarica, an independent adviser at the Office for Human and Minority Rights. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Enis Imamović, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Gordana Comić, Olena Papuga, Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Miletić Mihajlović, Riza Halim, Shaip Kamberi, Meko Omerović, Zlata Đerić, Dubravka Filipovski and Zoran Babić and amendments to the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the legislation of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, as well as the Government's opinion on amendments. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he rejected as an incomplete amendment that added new members of 8a and 8b, together submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic, after Article 8. The rejected amendment cannot be discussed and is not voted on. Before we move on to the search in detail, I remind you that the MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic have withdrawn the amendments together to Article 9. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality submitted an amendment to Article 1. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1471	Thank you, Madam President. The amendment that we have submitted to Article 1 is a fundamental amendment which gives them effective rights to the national councils of national minorities, empowers them and precisely defines the status of national councils that have been often seen as an association of citizens or NGOs. The lack of such a clear definition greatly reduces the legitimacy of the Council and calls into question the actual power of national councils in the process of achieving the individual and collective rights of national minorities, which are in line with the Constitution and the laws of this country. The adoption of this amendment would create new legal opportunities to protect national councils, increase their independence and allow smooth work, free from political pressures and political threats. The power of the national councils in this bill is almost negligible, which represents one major drawback, because this law, like all previous laws, concerns national minorities. I can speak from the point of view of someone who comes from Sandzak and who represents the citizens of Sandzak in this congregation. These solutions are practically in Sandzak. Bosniaks are exposed to the terror of police, but also other inspectors, who, by their actions, threaten every kind of freedom of mind – freedom of opinion, freedom of political determination, etc. In this way, the state authorities...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1472	I urge you to speak exclusively of the amendment and not to make such assessments that do not stand. You can waste the time of the parliamentary group. It's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1473	Your Honor, I'm talking about the amendment right now. The point of my stay here is to talk about Bosniaks and the condition of Bosniaks, and since we're talking about national councils and this amendment, I'm talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1474	You're wasting the time of the parliamentary group, it's your right, but you should know.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1475	So, as far as this amendment is concerned, I am saying that we are proposing an increase in authority, ingenuity and jurisdiction of national councils and I am saying why this is important. Please don't interrupt me in the future. In this way, state authorities with public powers demonstrate open loyalty to other regimeal political parties who are trying to impose Bosniaks as their political solutions and those of citizens have a practical impact on their freedom to choose both local and republican. There is a danger that something like this will be in these upcoming elections for the national councils that are expecting us this year 2014. The explanation we got from the government is a reflection of the lack of understanding of problems and running into technique. I'm talking about the essence here. The bottom line is that the current position is the ability of national councils to be very small and negligible. This bill proves it and we tried to correct it with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1476	Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1477	I would take the opportunity to, already now with this first amendment, repeat what I said and when I spoke in the debate in principle. The subject of these amendments and the addition of the laws are procedures related to the selection of national councils of national minorities and that topics concerning content, rights and finance, etc., national minorities, roles of national councils and their arrangements remain issues which we will have the opportunity to discuss in the preparation of new amendments and additions or new law, which we will access immediately after the adoption of this law. Therefore, I am now making this comment and later in the discussion I will note every time the Government rejects this amendment for the reason that it is not subject to editing in this law now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1478	People's MP Enis Imamovic called for the word. Excuse me, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1479	Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1480	But you didn't mention it. The Minister has the right to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1481	But it does refer to my discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1482	He's referring to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1483	The amendment I made and the discussion I gave on that basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1484	The minister was talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1485	Okay, if you're saying I'm not right, then I have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1486	You know that according to the Rules of Procedure, the Chairman has the right to give a replica and assess whether it is necessary. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Aida Corovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1487	President-in-Office, honourable minister, colleague and fellow MPs, on behalf of my two fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will explain their two amendments. In the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the National Minority Councils Act, Article 1, Article 3, paragraph 2: "five days" are replaced by the words "15 days". The colleagues wanted to draw attention to the fact that the government and the ministry had no right to limit the deadline for national councils to how they would teach their application and that you were the only one who had the right to give deadlines to the administration and to leave the national councils the possibility and not to limit them to five days, and in the second amendment you limit them to 10 days. The colleagues are seeking, in both amendments, that the deadline be minimum 15 days for the submission of documentation and registration of national councils. I would take advantage of the opportunity to point out some of the problems the Bulgarian national council has. I've had some conversations with them, so that's exactly what I'm saying, let me give you some of their problems. In particular, the Bulgarian National Council demands that it have a national-level vote in Bulgarian. We had this before in southern Serbia, as regards Radio Nis, a national information programme, however, it was abolished. The only TV that broadcasts the information programme in Bulgarian is low city television and all praise for the work of the city's TV house. However, they ask the government and you, if there is a possibility, like the province's television has information programmes in the languages of all national communities, that Bulgarians also have the right to have information emissions on one of the national media. There's also a problem with the printed media. In 1949, the “Brothership” newspaper, based in Nis, was established. Until recently, he was going out. However, the republican government has transferred its founding rights to the Bulgarian National Council, and then problems arise, both in financing and in the problem of presenting this list of national councils. These would be some two applications I used in this term to show you and to explain these two amendments that colleagues Vesna Martinovic and Aida Corovic have made.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1488	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1489	Thank you, Madam President. The amendment that we have submitted to this article provides for the erasure of a provision allowing the removal of national councils from the register. So, if there is an erasure of national councils from the register, we believe that certain processes can be stopped in the exercise of individual and collective rights of members of national minorities, which are started. Therefore, the existence of such a provision is unacceptable, and it is particularly unacceptable because of the arguments made by the Government to reject this amendment, which says it is also using a very non-serious formulation – that the non-interest of the national minority can affect the existence of the national council itself. This is exactly the wording of "non-interest" that binds us to the amendment that we submitted to Article 1, which the Government refused, which we talked about earlier. This makes it clear that there is no interest in the country's right to allow national councils to increase their powers to affirm the existence of national councils and to increase the essential need of members of national minorities for the existence of these national councils. The example is, if this law provides for the authority of the Bosniak National Council to influence the resolution of the problem of equality before the law, and to increase the interest of Bosniaks in the existence of the Bosniak National Council, because they could solve the problem of unsettled structures in the judiciary, police, prosecutors and other bodies with public authority. Through this institution, highly educated Bosniaks could secure a place in these bodies, which are often much more qualified and prepared than candidates who are often imposed by ruling parties and parties who are loyal to the parties in power. In this way, national councils would protect me from exposure to political attacks by parties who view it as a prey to be divided and in which it is necessary to install politically similar Bosniaks and give them a privileged position, and all others to declare to the public culprits and enemies of the state. Therefore, interest also exists, and there is encouragement, i.e. asphyxiation of that interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1490	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1491	This amendment refers to one topic that essentially appears in several amendments, and I will again take this opportunity to comment once again on the government's position, which is that certainly erasing from the register is not something that can no longer be changed, but in the next election mandate, the constitution can be re-implemented, as this bill sets out in detail and allows. Practice will show, I think we should give her a chance to show, that where interest exists, this and this regulated matter makes it possible for the national minority to exercise its right. If we see that there are problems, we will change again, but at this point, this is the best possible and detailed discussion and accepted in a public debate way to solve one complex matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1492	The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1493	Thank you. With two minutes available for the amendment, I will also use the time of the mandated representative of the DS parliamentary group. The amendment essentially requires the removal of the provisions and resolutions on removal from the register of national councils. The government responded with the following explanation of the reasons for not accepting my amendment. I quote: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the introduction of a National Council's National Council to be removed from the register is a logical consequence of the structure in which the formation of a National Council is an expression of the free will of a member of the national minority, which consistently implies that the absence of such a will, expressed through lack of interest in the education of the National Council of National Minorities, affects the existence of the National Council itself". So if there is no interest in the education of the National Council, how can it affect its existence? If he doesn't exist, how can he be deleted from the register? This isn't the first time and it's not about the government that I'm the opposition to. It's the proclivity of the executive government, whether I support it or not. I think it's the job of the MPs not to be silent, nor when it comes to the information and arguments of the government that I support or who I am in opposition, because it's a common shame. So this can't be written like this. To be perfectly clear, you say that the lack of interest in the education of the National Council affects the existence of the National Council itself. So either the National Council is educated or not? If you think it's about the lack of interest of members of the national communities to participate in the elections, it might not be possible again with this and this explanation, because there is also a proposal for a solution to the suspension of elections and so on, and if it is about you wanting to say that there will be supervision of the work of the national councils and that the result of that supervision can be a removal from the register, then we lack a huge part of the dialogue on how the ministry will appreciate whether the national council is interested or not, are they dealing with their constitutional powers, with culture, education, information and use of the official language? I'll give you one example. Is the non-interest of the National Council if it is obvious that in the territory of which there is a national community that uses the official language and the letter does not implement the provision on the use of the official language and letter and of the national community on indications and on the information boards. If the National Council is silent, is that the reason to delete it from the register? If you don't shut up, what kind of events can come out of it? I will purposely give examples that are on the edge of the cartoon because this explanation from the bottom edge of the cartoon and because it is not understood that the will to solve the problems that exist in the application of the existing law has turned practically into the will not to think enough about what kind of solution this solution will produce in the education of national councils. If at the same time we call on other members for a parallel, as it is the elections, with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, now again a cartoon example, if a total of 700 voters come to some national elections, will anyone think to delete from the register, from the Constitution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? If the National Assembly doesn't sit for a year, which was usually the case in 2006 when we had frozen co-operation with the EU, for almost a year, will this be considered as a lack of interest to us MPs for work and competences from constitutional and legal jurisdiction of the National Assembly? Both cases I deliberately Caricate, because in response to the subject I offer the argument of the argument, it says that the lack of interest in the education of the National Council affects the existence of the National Council itself. The way we're going to have the first case deleted from the register will unfortunately give for the right to us who feel that this provision and the idea of deleting from the register should be deleted from the bill, but it will be late again. My commitment to this solution and to support the amendments of my colleague Olena Papuga is going exactly in the direction of once in a while what will certainly prove to be the wrong provision. In order to end the attempt to defend this amendment on the need to delete the provisions on removal from the register, I must also announce to you a constitutional appeal, that is, a complaint that will require an assessment of the constitutionality of this provision, once it is adopted, because I have no doubt it will be adopted. I don't want to, it may sound paradoxical to you, but I don't want the Constitutional Court to give me the law, because it will be the second time, that the Constitutional Court assesses some of the provisions in the National Councils Act unconstitutional. It is simply my obligation, because I deeply believe that we are right when we consider that the provision that the national councils are deleted from the register is under-thinking, will not give a good result, will not benefit anyone. With full understanding of the motive for a provision like this to be introduced, but also with a request that when the Constitutional Court discusses the assessment of constitutionality, as I have submitted an assessment of the constitutionality of the provisions required by women who either interrupt pregnancy or lose their pregnancy, that all data be published, publicly and sent to the RZO, I also consider it a violation of the law. For the same reason, I believe that this is a violation of the rights guaranteed to the national communities by the Constitution, and otherwise guaranteed by other provisions of the same law. I do not believe that there is a Constitutional Court that would say that there could be someone who would appreciate whether members of the national community are interested or not to exercise their rights, then to make an assessment that they are not interested, and then to delete them from the register with a message - you can re-election when regular elections for national councils come, so let's see if you will then show interest. That's how this provision looks in reality, and that's how it's gonna prove unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1494	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1495	My dear minister, the co-workers of the ministry, thank my colleagues for explaining this amendment to me just as I would explain it. Obviously, there are people who are thinking about the position of national communities, thinking about the law that has been passed, to simply improve the rights of national communities, but I think this Article 4b. It really does not improve but improves the rights of national communities in the Republic of Serbia with which I think we can only boast, because in the region no country has regulated the rights of members of national communities as regulated by our country. I think on a test with a member like this, with decisions like this, we really fall for the reason that erasing national councils from the register and not knowing exactly what the provisions are why the national council is deleted, someone who doesn't want to. I don't see why and by what it is anyone's will to have or have no national advice, and that someone determines whether he really invests all the energy that his national council exists. I don't know what the criteria are and what will ultimately be the criteria for the National Council to be deleted from the register. It is indicated that it can be dissolved for one reason or another. You've explained it by some will of members of the national minority whether they want to have a national council or not. I am concerned about this information – what if the national council is disbanded a month after the election, then whether three and a half years or more of the national community will not have its own national council because if the national council is deleted from the register, the national community must wait for the elections that will be... ( President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... I'm using the MP's time group. The national community will not have a national council for three and a half years. So she won't be able to affirm herself in education, culture, those points that the National Council Act provides for. I've already said in my explanation that Article 4b is proposed. is contrary to the newly proposed Article 15. The draft law amending and supplementing the National Minority Councils Act, since Article 40(4) and (5) stipulates that the law provides as a measure for the establishment of a provisional body. The member, however, predicts that, in some cases, the national council, if disbanded, may have temporary organs until the next election. This Article 4b. That's not what he's predicting. He is contrary to one member of this same National Council Act. Deleting the National Council from the Register is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, especially since the national minority whose national council has been deleted from the register has the right to choose these national councils only during the period when elections for all national councils are held. This practically means, I have already said, that one national community whose national council will be deleted from the register may not work for three and a half years, and according to another member has the right to temporary authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1496	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Vesna Martinović and Aida Ćorovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1497	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. counterpart Dusan Milisavljevic has already explained that counterpart Aida Corovic and Vesna Martinovic are dealing with the deadlines prescribed by the law for five or ten days and the amendments have been submitted for two reasons. First, it is relatively unusual for the normal 15-day period for applicants to be reduced to five or ten, except in special cases for which we know, which is less important and probably would not be the reason for the amendment. What is the reason for the amendment and which is not even a question of reading the proposal's intention but is obvious, if we want an effective process, then we do not prescribe a cut-off of time to the applicant but rather to the one who, on request, gives an answer to the administration, is a key rule of good administration. This is not a topic for national councils. This is a topic for those who will act on the content of the applicant. However, when you read the basic provision like this, then you clearly see that the amendments and additions to the laws apply to applicants, i.e. national councils asking them for faster or shorter deadlines, which is contrary to the principle whether we are applicants requires us as members of national councils or is one of us who has some deadline to apply for anything he needs from the administration in response. How will we agree together that the administration has a strict and short deadline to respond to the legal application of the applicant is of course a second question, but here without any logic, without any analogy, especially no analogy with the Law on the Elections of Members of Parliament to which it is called, we prescribe five and 10 days, respectively, instead of the usual 15 days. So it's not about us insisting that the law be passed, but we find it very important that the reasons why we were led to support the amendment of our colleagues are heard and kept in the records of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1498	Members of the 3rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic – Korac and Prof. Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic – Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1499	Thank you, Madam President. The Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues and I have submitted an amendment to Item 4b, which is to be added to this bill. Article 4b regulates when national councils are deleted from the register and say they are deleted if they are disbanded because of the suspension of the selection procedure of the National Council and if they are disbanded because the number of its members has been reduced below half. In paragraph 4, the national minority whose national council has been deleted from the register has the right to choose a new national council on the day when elections are held for members of all national councils. We suggest that this position is – a national minority whose national council has been deleted from the register has the right to choose a new national council for a period of 90 days from the date on which the national council has been deleted from the register. We propose this in order to allow national councils that can be disbanded for 15 days, a month, two months after the elections to carry out the election of a new national council within 90 days, that they do not have to wait for the whole election cycle and the whole term to pass from four years to re-election their members. This is especially important because of the national minorities that are few in our country. In our experience, since we live in environments where there are several national minorities and representatives of different national communities, we know that representatives of national minorities are not always ready to engage in political and public life, because participation in the national council is in some way participation in public life. (President: Time. ) Can I use the time of the parliamentary group, just to finish? (President: Yes. ) The fact that the number will fall below half does not mean that the national minority is uninterested in the work of the National Council, only that a certain number is either dead or evicted and therefore the number is reduced. Perhaps some of the new members of that national minority will be included in the special electoral list and will be involved in the work of the national councils, so we believe that our amendment is indeed justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1500	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Dr. Janko Veselinovic, are you wasting your time on the parliamentary group? No, I don't. You'll be wasting your time from an authorised representative? You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1501	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I spoke about this law in principle, I said that the MP group Boris Tadic – NDS – the ZZS and Green Serbia will not support this law for any number of reasons, I will repeat two key ones. The first key reason is in the fact that this law came by emergency procedure, which is not appropriate for laws concerning national minorities. (President: Will you please ask for an amendment? Yes, this is about the amendment, Madam Chairman, because I am talking about the fact that this amendment has reduced the rights of national minorities and that this should not have been done, especially in an emergency procedure. So, you're gonna let me make an introduction and talk about the amendment. This law was passed by an urgent procedure, which means that MPs of the opposition and MPs of the ruling parties had no opportunity to get familiar with its provisions adequately. In particular, there were no members of the national minorities. If they had the opportunity, Madam Minister, they would surely tell you that this amendment seriously threatened their right, not procedurally what you were talking about when you spoke about this law, this is not about any procedural law and procedural law, but about the measure of the rights of national minorities, which is the right to have their own national council. In this article that we have tried to amend the amendments, it is said that a national minority who, for any reason, paraphrases, loses the right to the existence of a national council will be able to do so since the next term of office, which is theoretically possible for four years. It is very symptomatic that almost identical amendments were submitted by representatives of three parliamentary groups, three different opposition parliamentary groups almost in the same text. Why? Because you have imposed sanctions on national minorities, or national councils.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1502	Are you all right? Because it's a huge political assessment of imposing sanctions on national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1503	Madam Chairman, please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1504	I have the right to interrupt. I have the right to intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1505	So you have reduced the rights of national councils by this provision. How? By the fact that the national council, which has, for example, a number of members, which is registered on the edge of a minimum that is prescribed by law, and in the meantime some of them are moving out of Serbia for economic reasons which is not impossible, die or otherwise be reduced to the number of members of that council, you punish that national minority by eradicating it from the register of national councils. What else would that be called? That national minority won't have a national council for the next four years, you're even making that clear. You sanction it by the fact that they will not be able to form advice, but you explain it by their lack of interest, that they are not interested in having a national council by moving away for economic reasons, by dying, you say it's indifference. Have you, Madam Minister, read this explanation on our proposal to amend an existing member by this amendment? Do you think that's appropriate? Members of one parliamentary group, MPs of another parliamentary group belonging to the national minority, say it is inappropriate and you remain silent and believe that such a provision should remain in the law. Even when a member of a parliamentary group calls for the unconstitutional nature of this provision and the fact that this provision may fall in the Constitutional Court. Is that what we need? What are we going to get with that sanction? So, what do we get with it? I ask you once again today, when you have the opportunity, to consider these amendments and accept the amendments. I think they're very reasonable, I don't think they're intruding at any of your understanding of the position of national minorities, but they're only giving national minorities one chance not to lose their national councils over a long period of time, not to mention national minorities that have a very limited number of members enrolled in the National Minority Register, such as. Macedonian and some other national minorities. Please reconsider. This is a very serious question and this question is not such that it can be considered procedural and I believe, the chairman, that you had no reason to go into my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1506	I didn't take your word. Your Honor, I have the right to intervene, because it is the task of the President of Parliament to hold order in the O.R. and to take care of dignity, otherwise it would all come down to speaker duty. Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1507	I would just like to point out that the national council is an instrument for achieving the right of a national minority, not a right in itself. Evidence of this is also the fact that there are still very few countries in Europe where national councils exist at all. As we know, we can look to many of these same European countries when it comes to allowing our national minorities to exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1508	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1509	My colleagues and I have also submitted an amendment to Article 4(4) where a deadline is set within which the National Council is required to adopt the Statute of the National Council. We suggest that that deadline be changed and extended to 15 days. This is in line with most of the deadlines to be applied in the legal system. We believe that the constitution of the National Council still takes a little more time. They don't have so many experts and experts who might be able to prepare for them for a short time the text of the statutes. In addition, it is a little questionable about deadlines and deadlines, as the registration of national councils in the register says they are to be entered on the basis of an application submitted by the president of the National Council and that he must submit the application within five days of the election and that he must submit two copies of the statutes with the application. The president is usually elected at the constitutional session, which means that the statutes must be adopted immediately. These deadlines are indeed inconsistencies, and I also said in principle that I think that the ministry should do one instruction on the course of the procedure, because these deadlines really do not give the opportunity to meet people who are not professional in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1510	The word is made by Minister Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1511	In this set of amendments that we are going to discuss today, there are several of them related to different deadlines, and I will now respond to this amendment to cover the others. This draft law on amendments and amendments to the law has passed a detailed and quite broad discussion. The government's assessment was that although there is a possibility that these amendments would stand, we have not received a particularly similar view in the debate so far. Once again, there will be an opportunity, the law will change once again, before that choice will pass, we will follow and we will see. If the deadlines are really problematic, they can change, but the extension of the deadlines also has its negative sides, it could reopen the possibility of enlargement or abuse or simply one less regulated process. It has to be evaded and the practice will show, and the ministry will certainly oversee the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1512	The word is Gordana Komic, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1513	I use the time of authorized representatives of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. About the solution from the public debate, I have a lot of understanding that this is considered binding, but it is a little conflict with what the jobs of the National Assembly are. You know, if it were like that -- there's been a public debate, we get all the opinions, and what about some MPs to submit amendments? Then it would happen that the laws enter into this assembly and come out in the same text, which in 14 years, as far as I'm concerned about working in this house, with many of my colleagues, has not happened to a single law, except for those you can't stand the amendments. So, the whole idea of discussing the bill is to leave space that perhaps what is not sufficiently detailed in the public debate, or it is ignored, it all happens, that there is a space in which MPs will submit amendments and thus circle the process of public debate. If we don't introduce this as a practice, that there are amendments, we're going to have a lot more difficulties than with the evidence that some of these provisions, which we're warning now, are giving bad practice. By submitting amendments, not because we do not know what was in the public debate, but we also know how the law was passed in 2009 and what all the problems were in practice and what is all the reason to try to solve the election provisions and the problems that existed in practice. For this reason, I fully appreciate that the public debate has given sufficient arguments to both the ministry and you as ministers, but I ask you to appreciate that the common benefit of the debate in the National Assembly itself is to submit an amendment that says – wait, this is still not well solved, no matter how much we agreed during the public debate. We had experience with various documents that went through a public debate and there were obvious errors. We're the people who work, and he's the one who's wrong. I'm not talking about my amendment. I know how to vote, as I know very often how many people agree with what I'm saying, and they won't vote yes or no. It is a congregation life, including executive power. But I'm telling you, there have been a lot of examples where banal things have been missed during the public debate, which, fortunately, have been corrected by the amendments here. So I ask you to respect that too when discussing amendments to any of the MPs in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1514	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, the People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted an amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1515	Thank you, President. My amendment concerns that the National Council shall elect the President and members of the Executive Board from the National Council members on a proposal from the President of the National Council. In my opinion, the president of the National Council has been given a great deal of rights here, that's one thing. Secondly, what I was reacting to is why members of the Executive Board must also be members of the National Council. I ask the question, do the ministers in the government have to be MPs first? They don't have to. These are people who are professional in their fields and can choose and become ministers. I think this applicable Law on the selection of Members of Parliament, the election of members of the Government, should also apply here because what will happen if, for example, There are no professors in the National Council or if there are none in the National Council, no journalists. Does this mean that in the Committee on Education, which is part of this Executive Board might be followed by a man who is an amateur in a cultural and artistic society, who passed out as a member of the National Council? And whether or not the Information Committee will be accompanied by some lawyer who has nothing to do with the information, that's where the culture comes in, the official use of language and letters. So I think that, in addition to what has been given too much will, I think too much of the right of the President of the National Council to think that members of the Executive Board do not have to be members of the National Council as well as ministers do not have to be MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1516	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1517	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, therefore the same objection as the previous member, i.e. not accepting our amendment. The same situation, you have entered the measure and restricted the rights of members of the national minority. How? By binding the members of the National Council that members of the Executive Board may only be of the order of that National Council chosen. This means – the national council of the Bosniak minority, the Russian, Slovak, selects a national council based on the election will of members of that national minority, gets people who won those elections because they have popularity in those environments. They may be all lawyers, doctors, farmers or belong to another profession, they should perform some function, they should deal with organising cultural events, they should deal with information, they should deal with cultural heritage and national minorities, and they should choose the executive council. You made it impossible for them, by forcing national councils to choose only people who are members of that narrow national council on the executive board. What did you do that for? Is there any explanation why you restricted the national council in that right? Here, I ask the president of the National Council, or the president of the Assembly Committee, is that his opinion? Does he think that the national council...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1518	Time. You can't speak directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1519	I'll use the time of the authorized representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1520	But don't speak directly to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1521	I address him as chairman of the National Minorities Council of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1522	That's right, over me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1523	I ask Mr Meji Omerovic, chairman of the Committee on National Minorities, is that his opinion? Does he feel that this assembly should determine who will be on the executive board of a national council and whether it is an upgrade of the rights of national minorities or whether it is a restriction on the rights of national minorities that we have established together during a previous period? Personally, I think it's a restriction of law. I urge you once again, Minister, to consider this amendment, and just before we talked about, and to accept these amendments so as not to have any subsequent problems with national councils that will find out when this official messenger in which this law will be published, that they are some of the rights that they had previously lost, or that some of the people who are now on these executive committees, because they are experts from that area will no longer be able to do so, because Minister Kori Udovici suggested that they be just people who have been elected to the National Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1524	Thank you. The word is Meho Omerovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1525	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the previous speaker addressed me directly as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Minority Rights and Gender Equality. I have an obligation and a duty to answer him not so much for him as for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who watch this in direct television transmission for the simple reason that in previous reports many who did not national minorities have tried to defend the rights of national minorities from all tools, so to speak. Then let me, too, as someone who is challenged by some, that is not decent enough, that it is not a very good representative of national minorities to say something. It is true, therefore, that this law by emergency procedure is included in the agenda of the Republika Srpska Assembly on the nose to hide from the public what the proposer wants to do when it comes to national minorities' rights through the proposed law. Why do I say that? Because the debate on the proposed Law on the Council of National Minorities was held throughout the year 22013. I was directly involved in this myself, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous session, in December 2013, literally identical text, except for the provisions declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional, passed on and today we are discussing it. Do not tell your colleague Veseinovic about how someone wanted to push something on his neck, nose by emergency procedure to bypass something that no one wants to say, and especially do not say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia imposes sanctions on national minorities. Do not especially say that this high house, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is a body or body that wants to sanction representatives of national minorities. Unfortunately, you've been in the same basket with one of the former ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia who, as much as yesterday, said that this government of the Republic of Serbia and state structures and some others want to wipe out representatives of a certain national minority. I'm not going to quote who said that. So, please, since you asked me a question, I answer you directly. In no way, nor does this assembly, particularly the representatives of the Committee on Human Rights, Minority Rights and Gender Equality, want to harm representatives of national minorities, this is a proposal that has long been spinning in public debate. This is a proposal, I will remind you, behind which all the advice of the national minorities that exist in the state of Serbia has stood.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1526	Comrade Omerovic, you have been a long MP, I do not mind you quoting a fellow MP who spoke before you or a fellow MP who provoked you to answer him, but I ask you in the future for the respect of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly to avoid direct address to the MP. I know you have enough experience and knowledge to do so without violating the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1527	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, with all due respect, I had no intention of speaking individually to a fellow MP, the predecessor asked me a question as president of the Committee of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. So, I was just answering the question. That question could have been asked by any of these present perhaps 170 MPs right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1528	Mr. Omerovic, a colleague of Veselinovic's, has been warned since then. The word is Janko Veselinović. On what grounds? Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1529	The Committee president, Mr. Omerovic, said several findings that do not stand. The first is the fact that he contests the right of the majority people to care for national minorities. I think it's very irresponsible of him, because minorities should first of all be cared for by the majority of the people. Of course, national minorities should take care of themselves and through national councils that they may not have if the bill and individual national minorities are adopted lose their national councils. To be honest, I spoke to the president of the Committee because in an informal conversation, which we conducted on this amendment, he said he did not see any reason why anyone else would lay down the right to national councils that they would choose their executive board and I expected support from him. But apparently, he's not honest, or he's talking, and he's doing something else. As chairman of the Assembly's board, when it comes out publicly, it supports the minister, and when it speaks, probably with members of the national minorities, it tells how it protects them. It's not all moral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1530	A colleague of Omerovic's. On what grounds? Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1531	A 107th member has violated the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The previous speaker called me by my last name again. Of course, my colleague, Veselinovic, is responsible for the position and rights of minority representatives. That's right in Serbia. Of course this assembly, including this Government of the Republic of Serbia, is responsible for what is happening. Of course, the Serbian Parliament is also the majority responsible for the conduct of the MPs, but for your behaviour, obviously, no one can answer except yourself. Don't give me anything I didn't say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1532	Mr. Omerovic, don't use the right to injure the Rules of Procedure by using the replica. If you want a replica, since you were mentioned, you may request a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1533	I'm just calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, and I can continue on the basis of the replica, because it's not appropriate for someone to have some informal, informal, or not know you, what kind of conversations they take as a recipe so they can answer for a word. If I started talking about what my colleagues on the right were telling me, then we'd be talking until the fall session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1534	Mr. Omerovic, I beg you, complete your breach of the Rules of Procedure, so let's get on with our work. Does anyone else advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? A colleague, Marijan Rističević, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 103(1) concerning Article 104. What's this about? So far, it's been a practice when someone advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure, no one has the right to replicated such an exposure anymore. In previous verbal duels, we have had the opportunity to see that the opposition's representative has been given the right to replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. that this is the right of the replica and the right of the Rules of Procedure to the mustache, so it is not clear to me what is happening here. However, I ask you to continue to discriminate positively against the opposition, and to understand that they are exercising their rights both on replicas and on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, very easily, I do not blame you, but I believe that in the future you will continue to allow them, but that you will have some limit to which they can use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1536	Col. Rističević, of course we will take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, to note that this is also the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where political attitudes and political diversity are often conflicted and thank God that this is the place where it should be and that it is happening. I cannot influence fellow Members of Parliament to protect themselves by advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure and calling on another MP who then seeks the right to replication. This rule that the violation of the Rules of Procedure does not allow for the right to replication to be violated when one who advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure calls a fellow MP. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, thank you. Does anyone else have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure or replica? (No) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1537	Thank you. I'm using the time of the DS parliamentary group. I would also like to support the amendment submitted by Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Janko Veselinović, as well as by counterpart Olena Papuga, who gives both amendments in her own way, gives better solutions than in the draft text of the law on who may be a member of the executive board. Namely, the bill can only be members of the National Council. It's such a bad solution as to produce practical problems on the ground. I'll give you one example. Since I speak two languages of national communities in Vojvodina, you prevent me from competing with one of those two national communities for an executive board member, dealing with issues that I consider to have knowledge, skills and experience, because I do not plead as a member of the national community without talking about members of national communities who do not want to run or in any other way and participate as members of the National Council. So, apart from the idea of this, contrary to the view that you say you'll disband the national council if members of national communities and minorities show no interest. Here you have, I guarantee you, I have the honor and privilege of knowing members of the national communities who want to work in bodies like executive committees and who are working and now, no matter how formal it is, but do not want to run, be on the lists and be members of the national councils. Why do you prescribe that members of the Executive Board must be members of the National Council? This is not the only provision. I will go so discreetly and clearly state why I submit amendments or why I will support and vote in favour of my amendment colleagues. Because these provisions are made because of problems that have been faced with only some national advice in the past? What will be the consequence? You will not solve problems in these national councils, and you will create problems elsewhere and that is what will cause total damage to the whole idea of functioning of national councils. Leave people competing in the framework of elections for national councils to offer in the formation of executive committees according to competences, skills, experiences, anyone, place and duties and engagement on executive committees, and even, as far as I'm concerned, we have had such an amendment, and we have given up, so as not to make noise about what we read clearly in the provisions of the laws that change, even if it does not have to be formally a member of the national minority and national council, or the national community of which it is. It is more efficient, more logical, more elegant, a better solution than to prescribe national councils that only members of national councils can be members of the Executive Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1538	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1539	The answer to these several amendments, which essentially refer to the same question, is simply that the amendment was not accepted by the Government for reasons that only members of the National Council can decide in the exercise of the competence of the National Council. Issues concerning the interests of the National Council should not be considered to be decided by a person who is not a member of the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1540	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1541	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has divergences because it stands in diversity. According to the 2011 census, 13% of the population in Serbia are members of national minorities who are organised into just over 30 different national identities. For the Serbian Progressive Party, it is the value of our society that we want to cultivate. The Serbian Progressive Party as a party, which has gained almost half the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who heads the government of the Republic of Serbia, has the right to a policy of integration, i.e. to lead a policy of integration. This integration policy can only be conducted through dialogue with all representatives of national minorities. No one has a deed to national minorities, no one has the right to speak on behalf of everyone, and that is why I am opposed to some ugly words spoken in this House, and that is why I am grateful to the President of Parliament because she has stopped those ugly words in the root, because the subject of the national minority is a subject that is hypersensive to every society, and also to the Serbian society, and I would not want any irresponsible statements to burden such a process. He would not want us to send an ugly picture and an international community to the hard, untrue and unnecessary words, to send an ugly picture and representatives of the national minorities. We believe it is necessary to make a clear balance between the degree of separation necessary for the free expression and development of the specificity of members of national minorities and the establishment of links between different national minorities and the relationship between national minorities and the whole society. That is why I would like us all to come back and talk about the draft law on national councils of minorities, to leave competitions and these petty political points for some other scenes and other topics. The theme of national councils of national minorities and even national minorities in our society is the topic to be discussed in an active dialogue between the state and all representatives of national minorities. Both the majority people and representatives of national minorities live equally badly in Serbia. The definition of this government of the Republic of Serbia to give economic measures, reforms for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has received trust from citizens of Serbia, regardless of whether it belongs to the majority people or national minorities, is trust to implement reforms for a better life in Serbia, for more work, for more investment, for more jobs for all people in Serbia. Don't let us send some ugly picture of our society and our country, perhaps with the tiny political points we're about to make right now, which we absolutely don't want. Please introduce this procedure and this session into one normal and decent framework.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1542	The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1543	As authorized in front of my parliamentary group, I would return to the amendment that caused, in one word, a partially quality debate. There are arguments we've heard from this side, but I think there are arguments, and they're extremely strong, that justify this legal solution. I spoke affirmatively of this law. I think it's much better than the law that's been since 2009, and I think it's also one quality that this law carries. First of all, it is disputable to introduce people who have no legitimacy electoral and can be a place of serious abuse. On the other hand, it is extremely important to motivate professionals, lawyers, doctors, people who make up the intelligence of a nation to engage in the race and to enter and measure and to see how the place is achieved and how it can be practically influenced by the advice itself. Finally, and only the establishment of this institution, this practically technical element of the council is extremely important, because it can overcome really the problems that can be encountered in walking. I would therefore like to conclude that there are also a lot of positive arguments why this bill and this point of the SDP will support, and this amendment will, for the reasons set out above, refuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1544	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1545	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You'll only allow me at the beginning of a few seconds to take up time, instead of answering the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to ask you to give a warning in the future. So, when the party running as a minority party in the elections and winning minority votes, it is by running as a minority party only asking for minority votes to represent the minority in this parliament. Several times already have various tones where such parties are challenged to have the right to talk about the minority, exclusively about the minority in this parliament. I'd like to ask you to respond to those tones in the future, and now I'd like to return to the amendment. So, with this amendment to Article 5, we wanted to correct one fact where we think it's really not good. He's about the same as the amendment we discussed in the last half hour. So, we believe that it is not good in any way to condition membership in the executive board of national councils because it is the task of the Executive Board to implement decisions of the National Council, and it is particularly not good because of the fact that the amendment that we have provided for the affirmation of that council, the Council of the Republic of Serbia for National Minorities, which is refused to introduce this council in the legal framework, which was formed by the Government Regulation in 2009, which so far has done nothing, nor has it even lived. In view of the bad experiences related to the implementation of all laws, and in particular those relating to national minorities, we believe that the existence of such a council would be a sort of guarantee of top state officials that they really want to help national minorities exercise their right, instead of hiding behind the national councils that we have just seen, we have reduced their powers by this legal solution. Therefore, the intention is obvious that the advice is to reduce authority, to reduce ingenuity, and then to declare the advice guilty of a low degree of justice. We believe it is time for Serbian political leaders to slowly start learning to be leaders of the Republic of Serbia, because I will remind you that 29 indigenous national communities live in the Republic of Serbia. So this provision excludes the possibility of hiring experts and independent experts from various areas. One of those examples, we heard it earlier, were foreign experts in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so I simply wonder if it is good to have extra-party experts in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, why is it not good to have it in national councils? This opens up the possibility for members of the Executive Board to also be members of other national communities, which is not, and all in order to be better, more efficient and professional in the pursuit of individual collective rights of national minorities. You have seen that there are strong reasons for the adoption of this amendment. It's not too late. I call on the National Assembly to support this amendment or amendments that have similar intentions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1546	The word is from MP Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1547	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, the esteemed minister, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, on the basis of a consultation with the representative of the Bunjeva National Council, as well as with members of the provisional body, I was tasked with commenting today on some of the amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. I'm a member of the Bunjevac National Minority. For seven years, I was a member of the National Council and president of the Committee on Culture. I live and come from Somboro. I have an obligation to both my fellow Somborians and the entire Bunjeva Corps, to address you today. Before I start by considering the amendments that we've assessed to be important to us Bunjevci, and one of them is on Article 5(6), I'd like to tell you in a few sentences who the Bunjevs are, because in this assembly house so far there has been no question of that. The rebels are a national minority, the most geographically located in Sombor and Subotica municipalities, in the north of Bačka. According to the latest census in Serbia, there are 16,800 rebels. The rebels are native and dominant, I point out, this country is the only one our Serbia has, because we have no other countries. We can't expect any help in achieving our rights, but that is also the obligation of another country, except this Serbia. That is why we are very interested in adopting this law in the best possible form. Let me remind you, in 1918, Serbs, along with the Bunjevci, shoulder to shoulder, preserved the northern borders of our Serbia at Bezdan. I would also like to mention the great influence of the Bunjevacs in the New Sad Constitutional Assembly and the same in 1918. Accordingly, as regards this Article, Article 5(6), the Bunjeva National Council, the Bunjeva National Community, agrees with the proposal that the National Council may propose and elect the president of the Executive Board and members who do not have to be members of the National Council and on the proposal of the National Council President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1548	The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1549	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am a supporter that this amendment cannot be accepted for reasons, because the insistence that members of the Executive Board may be persons who are not in the national council at the very least raise questions about their legitimacy. If they are experts in the field of information, in the field of education, culture, why are they not applied and elected as members of the National Council, then the Executive Board is elected from the ranks of members of the National Council? More likely, there will be an attempt to get into the executive board of people who lack some legitimacy and who have failed to pass the election of members of the National Council. For this reason, this amendment is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1550	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1551	Thank you. I'm using the time of the MPs' group. I would like to give support to the promoters of these last three amendments, which are heading towards improving the change of the Bills, as it is practically enabling more representatives of the national minority, especially when the experts of certain areas are in favour of improving the quality of the work of the National Council, in the direction of increasing rationality, practicality, greater performance in work. I don't see why this situation with regard to these amendments would be politicized. I think big words are unnecessary, but you should see better solutions. The practice is that wherever there are representative authorities, election-based bodies, through direct elections, we have that in local self-governments and at higher levels, to allow a wider spectrum of experts to engage in more efficient and better solving certain problems. I wouldn't be too long. I think these proposals are quite relevant and that, in that context, I think, they would be quite acceptable. I don't see any reason for these proposals to be politicized, to spread that story. I think it would be useful to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1552	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) The 5th Amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government on the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of the amendment, the MPs of the People's Republic of Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi submitted together. The government on the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1553	Thank you. Madam Minister, the objective of submitting this amendment is to crystallise, i.e. to avoid any possibility of incomplete data from the 2011 census being some criterion to determine which rights belong to the National Council of Albanians, which has existed since 2010. The meeting of the National Council has 29 committees, as it was formed on the basis of data from the 2002 census, according to which a list of 61,647 Albanians lives in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, there is no estimate of the population list that the Republic Statistics Institute used to do before, and the last list of Albanians did not participate, so there are over 5,000 lists, of which only 244 in Bujanovac, 416 in Presevo, 527 in Medvedja. We think that if this criterion is taken into account in the formation of a new National Council of Albanians' call, then the number of members from 29 could fall to 15, as set out in the bill. That's why we think the formulation we've offered can affect avoiding situations like this where the actual state doesn't match the one that's been declared. Since the 2011 census data for the Albanian population of Presevo and Bujanovac are incomplete, this reads in the publication of the Statistics Institute. The publication exists above in the library, indicating that the data refers only to the censused population. It can be concluded that there is a population that is not listed. If a situation like this occurs that the number of members of the National Council of Albanians is reduced from 29 to 15, we fear that we will come into a situation to affect the attained level of the rights of national minorities, i.e. a question regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to Article 14. That is why I call on the MPs to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1554	The word is from MP Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1555	In Article 5. The draft law amending Article 7 provides for the possibility of the President of the National Council to be president of the Executive Board in a newly added position 5. The National Council of the Bunjevac National Minority considers this to be unarranged, given that it is a dual function and the question arises - does the change of the Executive Board and its chairman end the role of the president of the National Council?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1556	The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1557	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at least I have to realize that the proposal for this amendment is a bit strange, so before the voter lists are always updated and members of the Albanian national community can always be entered into the electoral lists and that they know exactly what their number is. Seeking now, the state must provide basic human and minority rights to all citizens, including the Albanian national community. It is an obligation for every citizen of this country, on the other hand, to respond to the list. It is immoral to call on fellow countrymen not to sign up for election lists in one period, and then retroactively ask for the recognition that there are 61,000 members of the Albanian national community in Serbia with the 2002 census. So now we should believe that there are really so many members of the Albanian national community 12 years after the last census, and in 2011 when a list of members of the Albanian national community, only 5,500, responded to the census and registered as members of the Albanian national community. What if some members of the Albanian national community have moved to Kosovo, if in the meantime individuals have pleaded as Shkali or some individuals have pleaded as Serbs? What is the requirement for us to accept that there are 60,000, probably because of the number of members of the National Council? I find that justified, but since the voter lists of national communities are constantly updated, then it is morally necessary to invite its fellow citizens to respond to the census, so we will know exactly how many there are and that will adequately be the number of members of the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1558	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing an amendment to Article 7. Is that right? Since this was about Article 5, someone here mentioned a colleague. On the subject of this amendment, I would like to accept it, given that I advocate positive discrimination against national minorities. Serbia is a country that has been accused of ethnic cleansing by many, and we have heard here that we have 29 national communities, we have 19 national councils of national minorities. What we have is real proof that what others claim to be us, we haven't even done. I'm in favor of it, I don't know what kind of way it is, if we do it to one national minority, then we discriminate against other national minorities who participated in the list, if we're going to trust the 2002 census. For example, Yugoslavs, they are not a national minority, although they were once a people of three tribes. There were 80,000 in 2002, as I recall, and now there are about 20 or 30,000. So that number can vary, not only in the Albanian national minority, but it could vary in other national minorities, then the problem would arise, if we recognise this as a right and vote for this amendment, then other national minorities can also appear and say we are discriminated, we want to say that our members of the national minorities are not all listed, so we want this provision to apply to them. I no longer know what the legal criteria would be for elections for national councils of national minorities. I propose that the representatives of this national minority, given that the parts of this law have been declared unconstitutional, in relation to the media, we will soon most likely develop this law, that they, in agreement with the Government and the Statistical Office, resolve this issue, or agree on how to resolve this issue, given that they have voluntarily boycotted the previous list...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1560	Mr. Risticevic, talk about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1561	I'm talking about the amendment. Mr. Chairman, I'm the only one talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1562	You're talking about procedures, assumptions of the actions of members of a national minority, and this is about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1563	It says here that in 2002 there were 61,647, and now there are 5,500 of them and that this is a problem because they cannot show that picture in the national councils of national minorities. They suggested that they be granted 2002 law. I'm saying other national minorities can do that. They voluntarily gave up the list, but I suggest that this issue be resolved in another way, so the next time we develop this law, and the opportunities are such that because of some unconstitutional law on the media, we will do these changes again, to find some solution in order to integrate, rather than getoisation of the Albanian minority in Presevo, given that those accusations, which various have exposed us, do not stand, to prove once again that we are the majority that respects minority rights, and not what others claim for us. So, in order to integrate, not getoisation of this national minority, I want them to be given the opportunity and that, at some point, they try to solve this issue with the Government, the Statistical Office, to find some way to meet them too, because adopting this amendment would lead to the unfavourable position of other national minorities, who have carried out their duties and obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1564	The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1565	When I said that 61,647 Albanians live in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje territory, I called on official statistics from the 2002 census. That's the data the state gave. If, over a period of 10 years, 55,000 Albanians have moved out here, the question should be answered -- why have they moved out. The amendment is a matter of practical nature, in order to avoid the situation we had with the basic courts, i.e. the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Fundamental Courts and Fundamental Prosecutors, that Presevo loses the court because Albanians did not participate in the previous census. I don't think it's right for a country that claims to be part of the EU to count its minorities, in order to give its rights. In this regard, I refer to Article 18. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes provisions on human and minority rights, is interpreted in favour of improving the values of democratic society, in accordance with the applicable international standards of human and minority rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1566	Thank you. Just to let you know that you've spent your time scheduled to present your parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Riza Halimi as deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1567	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's see this argument given by the government. First, in that section where it is said that it is whether this amendment raises a question of Article 21. The RS constitution, which actually speaks of a ban on discrimination. The amendment has just been directed towards non-discrimination, so that there will be no further elections in the situation to drastically reduce the number of legitimate Albanian representatives in the National Council from 29 to 15, which would be discrimination. However, such as discrimination is a reduction of 30% of the funding of the Albanian national councils last year because of this problem and is long spoken and announced there will be an extraordinary list, but it is not there. This amendment actually asked us to solve this very sensitive and difficult problem. Was there a better solution to what one of the debaters mentioned, that the number of members was taken into account, the number of Albanians in the special polling list? About 27,000 Albanians were enrolled for the previous 2010 elections, and this number will be over 30,000 ahead of the new elections. In the amendment, we couldn't put this criterion in. The government could have found a way, if not to solve the problem in the way we proposed, I guess there was a possible solution over the number in the special polling list, in this case the reported Albanians in the special polling list, to solve this problem. It doesn't matter to us. It is important not to be in a new difficult and sensitive situation in the next election. I think the RS government found such a solution in the period from 1991 to 2002 when it was political will. My colleague mentioned for a little while that according to the law the Republic Bureau of Statistics can and is used with estimates of the number of inhabitants, because every year vital events of the population are monitored continuously. I don't see it for over a year when 30 per cent of the funding is being reduced to the National Council of Albanians, why isn't it trying to solve this problem more rationally, instead of what I'm hearing now, instead of some politicised attitudes? Could over 50,000 Albanians have evaporated? There were no war situations in this period. That there was a war, so they had to run. Why from 2002 to 2011 to reduce the number of Albanians from 61,467 to 5,500? The 1991 census was 78,000. If that were indeed the case, there is also a need to examine why such a drastic number of Albanians is being reduced. It was a political problem for which the government and the authorities did not show interest in solving this with representatives of Albanians. She could have gotten rid of it. The Albanian National Council had no share. It's neither guilty nor due to the cost of funding nor to the upcoming elections. If there were to be a solution like this, there would be a reduction of possibilities. This amendment was intended to address this sensitive and difficult situation. If the government has a different, better solution, let them do it. We will agree absolutely, but it is important that the current discriminatory situation prevails and an adequate solution is found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1568	The word is made by Minister Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1569	I don't think it's disputed that the situation is on the ground, that the actual state is not what's reflected in the lists, in the numbers published in the census. However, the question arises – can we solve the problem of a state of action through violations of the integrity of legal solutions? We have sought solutions that would remain integrated, not to open up problems to interpret either the credibility or the meaning of legally published data on the list. She can't be considered incomplete. There's no basis. We also cannot open up just such new criteria as to somehow touch the rights of all other national minorities. Therefore, it remains the most logical that we remain to look for a solution to the problems that arise in achieving the rights of the national minority in fact through practical solutions. I think there are instruments in this, which have been used in the past, and we will continue to use them in the future, and we will explore further changes or making new laws, when financial issues will also be treated, whether there is any possibility that, at the end of the current law, primarily finance, they will be more consistent with the fact that they are in the field than they would be if the legal solution we have proposed here was applied by automation. In any case, the government disagrees with the adoption of this amendment. VEROLJUB ARSIĆ: The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1570	By amendment. I am reporting again for the word, given that one of the amendment's proposings explained it very badly. His explanation suggests that the number of Albanians has dropped. It is not that the number of Albanians is reduced by depriving some rights, do not give God a banishment. The number of Albanians fell because a number of Albanian nationalities did not want to be listed on the list. Serbia is not in any way, especially not violently, that is the last thing we would want, has not wronged that national minority, nor contributed to their number on the list being smaller. It was their desire not to piss. These desires have led to some consequences that I myself have suggested to find a certain solution, not to be at the heart of those others who have been listed, whose right would be disputed by the recognition of a right that may be legitimately sought. But the mistake was to that national minority. If the number of Albanians then fell, the number of Albanian national minorities would be lower than in the previous meeting. In the previous meeting, there was one, and now we have two representatives of the Albanian national minority. So from that explanation, someone can determine that the number of Albanians has been reduced. That absolutely doesn't stand. There are two MPs, and in the last term there was one. As far as the voter's list is concerned, I'm not sure Albanians aren't on two ballots. I don't even mind that. They better be on two ballots, although it's not regular, but it's not on any of them as it happens on KIM with Serbs. I agree that they enter the integration process, to be integration, and as far as I can see from the promoters, he would prefer some kind of ghettoisation, so that they have some monopoly on the advice of national minorities, etc., to increase the number of members without having to participate in the census. This absolutely violates the rights and majority, as well as all other minorities who participate in various ways in life under this law on national councils of national minorities. In my opinion, everything needs to be done to make their rights come true, and if they don't want to do it alone, give them another chance to find a solution with the government to ensure that their right to do so on the next amendment. He disturbed me a little bit the way they explain it, as it can be felt that the number of Albanians in Serbia has fallen, which absolutely does not stand. If this continues, I will start looking for a national council for the peasant minority, because it is the most endangered population in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1571	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1572	Thank you, Chairman. Somehow we managed to fight for the word, because first there was a misunderstanding about whether or not we had the right to discuss the amendments. We do, as it says in the Rules of Procedure. I don't think the majority of the assembly and the national majority in Serbia need to be stingy with the rights of national minorities. The arguments put against this amendment are completely pointless. We have a real situation that in Serbia we have 60, 70, 80,000 Albanians, but certainly much more than that number found on the last list. It is true that it can also be determined through the results of the elections that were held a few weeks ago, some month ago. There were no natural or other disasters from 2002 to today. A rebellion in southern Serbia prior to the 2002 census was resolved in a way that showed that such situations could be resolved in the Balkans in a civilized, determined, state-right but decent manner, which both sides agreed on, and many observers who assisted in this way or in that way. I don't think the Serbian people, nor this parliament, need to be stingy about giving rights to national minorities. The argument that the adoption of this amendment would hurt other minorities does not stand. As far as I can tell, in Parliament, we now have representatives of at least 10 other national minorities, no one has said that she feels threatened by having an amendment to our two colleagues, so that the New Party and the two of us are urging you to accept these amendments, particularly the Ministers, but if she has any personal problem with it or does not have a government position or something, I think it would be a good idea for the parliamentary majority to take this one step that certainly will not be against patriotism, against European integration, against solidarity, against any big word or great goal set in the past few months or weeks. Finally, I think that this debate should be more serious, that with a little more concentration we all get into this debate, so it would not happen to us that from one of the previous speakers we hear that he says that it is possible that the number of Albanians in Serbia has decreased by perhaps making a statement as Serbs or as another nation, and he also said that it is possible that the number of Albanians in Serbia has decreased and if they moved to KIM. As I recall, Serbia did not recognise Kosovo, therefore, their migration to Kosovo would not reduce the number of Albanians in Serbia under the current constitution, preambles and by the position of the most important or most important positions of many parties, including the political majority in this parliament, and it is particularly dangerous to make such a statement that the general in retirement whose job was security. I'm sure there wasn't a bad intention here, but that's a small drop in concentration, and that's why I appeal that in this debate we have a serious high level of concentration. Therefore, let me repeat that we will support the amendment to Article 7 that Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi gave and that in this way the Albanian minority in Serbia will also be given rights that have other minorities, which will by no means be at the heart of either the Serb majority or any other minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1573	The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word. Here you go. Mr. Mitrovica, I apologize, fellow MP Momir Stojanovic has applied to the system, but I have not analysed that it is a replica. The word is by MP Momir Stanojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1574	I couldn't agree with my predecessor. I'm reporting because I'm mentioned in the context of an elementary ignorance of the situation. I think I know the situation in Kosovo much better than my reputed predecessor, you should. I spoke here, your claims do not stand, and even if from southern Serbia, part of the Albanians moved from their place of residence to the AP KIM, you know that the AP KiM is under international protection, or that they are present there. Secondly, the list on AP KiM territory has not been made. Therefore, your claim cannot stand in either case. I find her unfounded. I argue that first in the area of southern Serbia, 61,000 Albanians do not live, this would be evident, proven, shown on the next list. Secondly, knowing the migration of the population from southern Serbia to Kosovo's space, which due to education, which because of the change in KIM's residence, I say there are no, and according to some records, 27 000, according to esteemed counterpart Halimi, I believe there are so many Albanians in southern Serbia, but 61,000, I believe there are so many. How will you determine that they changed their residence from southern Serbia to KIM if there was no census in KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1575	Thank you. Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1576	First, I don't understand how my predecessor got the right to a replica, since I didn't mention it, but I don't mind. This failed attempt to correct something, I repeat, I don't doubt it was said in a slip, I don't doubt your good intentions, but you had a fall in concentration at one point, it happens to everyone. Probably used to be me, too, so that's not the question. Second of all, about the KIM situation, I think we have a lot of good news. We've been working together for a while, so we're not making any blocks right now, but it has nothing to do with what's the essence of this amendment. The adoption of this amendment will not cause any harm to anyone in Serbia, unless someone has an evil intention, and it should cause damage. I don't want to get into it, I don't mean people sitting here, of course, talking about some people who may be out there, but generally I think this would be a good gesture, so that it would be a gesture that I repeat doesn't cost anything, insults the rights of any other national minority, and affects the further integration of the Albanian population into Serbian institutions, i.e. institutions in Serbia, and that may be the way that there is no boycott for this or that reason on the next list. If we don't get into that subject right now, I think it's a way, that level of tolerance is needed to solve the problems we've been pulling for a very long time and that shouldn't be opened or heated, because that can be very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1577	The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1578	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected fellow MPs, I will begin by saying that we have gained the impression here as if defending the right to vote for the national council, especially the Albanian national minority. I must say that the proposed amendments to the Law on National Minority Councils are guaranteed a choice for national councils. There is only a number of members to count the Albanian National Council. The amendment, submitted by my fellow MPs Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi, is wanted because the last census data is not complete, to accept the 2002 census. I have to say that the 2011 census is complete and accurate. However, we have here that one part of the Albanian national minority, especially from Presevo and Bujanovac, is the boycott's census and that they have not been listed on the last list. According to the data we have, a total of about 5800 members of the Albanian national minority are listed in Serbia, and they have the right to choose for the national council, but they also have the right to elect 15 members of the Albanian National Council. I agree that we need to find an option through which we will determine the actual number of members of the Albanian national minority living in Serbia, and I also call on both Serbs and Albanians in southern Serbia, especially in Bujanovac and Presevo, to work on the economic development of southern Serbia, because equally bad in Presevo and Bujanovac live both Serbs and Albanians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1579	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1580	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I would first just like to advertise the Rules of Procedure, if you please, Mr. Chairman. Do you allow me to say one in my Rules of Procedure, Article 107? The speaker who replicated Mr. Stojanovic has in one way violated the dignity of our MPs and this home, using the expression that he probably lost concentration. We all know in an ironic sense what a loss of concentration means. That's what it's all about. If you'll excuse me, I'd like an amendment now. (President: Continue. Thank you. As far as the proposed amendment is concerned, it is more than clear that truly Albanians have enough as soon as two MPs have been elected. There was only one MP in the last session, Mr. Riza Halimi, and now Mr. Camberi has joined him. I don't think that's a problem, and we shouldn't have a discussion here that's on the level to and from. I think most of us are for, but to find a solution. I would ask the Vice-President of the Serbian Government to form, if necessary, a committee at your ministry, unless it is done, to say a committee of goodwill, because here in the law we will not find safe support or a basis for meeting Mr. Camberi and Mr. Reese Halimi's amendment. The law is very clear and it's quite precise. Indeed, in some ways they might be in an unfavourable situation for another national and ethnic minority. Therefore, I am in favour of admitting this amendment in one way, normally not in breach of the law. So I ask you and I suggest that, in cooperation with the MPs, you find an opportunity within a committee, as I said, of goodwill, to resolve this issue. I advise my friends and citizens of Albanians - not both goats and money. That's what you need to know. We can't. We want to go to the polls once. The people of Presheva, the bear and the Bujanite must not be guilty, 100 percent. You know that's how it is. It's the politicians who advise and suggest -- we're going to the elections now. I also understand it as a legitimate will and a way to put pressure on the government to find a compromise or a discount somewhere. But as you can see, it's counterproductive. That's not good. Now it doesn't fit. The 2001 census would be good now, or perhaps even the earlier one would be even better, as there were even more Albanians. I personally believe that there must be you there, as you say, you know it best, I don't doubt it, but I would still advise you to find a compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1581	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1582	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me make it right first. A few words were said that I allegedly said there were 27,000 Albanians, and I said there were 27,000 enrolled in a special polling list during 2010. At that time, as already said here, half of the political parties boycotted the elections for the national council, so they boycotted the formation of a special polling list. Is there a method to find the exact number despite this situation that the vast majority boycotted that list? There are certainly a number of other indirect data, such as the number of school students and the registered official number of unemployed in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. And it will likely indicate proportionally how much the Albanian population is present in this area as a whole. I said, when there's political will, problems can be solved. The National Council paid neither guilt nor debt nor participated in the problem created in 2011. It's my impression that he was experimentally chosen to be strict on the national council trained, not where he could be realistically, but would have far greater consequences. So, all the time in parliament, I am talking about the need to provide a more serious approach to solving sensitive problems in this area. If we bid this way with the number of Albanians, as could be heard here, we probably won't come up with a serious solution. We probably don't have time here to go back to that year 2011 and the problems that then caused a boycott or a lack of participation of most Albanians on that list, to legally invisible Albanians, who unfortunately for the first time appeared in this area, and this phenomenon was never present, as well as the failure to provide conditions for return during the wartime conditions of the evasive population and a number of other problems that were not prepared to have more serious conversations at that time and that these problems were being solved. We're not avoiding a new list and solving all these sensitive problems. We are for active participation, we are against boycotts, but the practice of former governments was that they were privileged in the field by those who boycotted. Let what I'm saying be analysed, that they were actually privileged and the coalitions at the bar were concluded by the central parties with those who boycotted the parliamentary elections. That is why I expect this statement, which Mrs. Minister said, if not with our amendment, it is important to find a solution, not to add this problem to the one I just said earlier – a reduction of 30% of the funding of the National Council of Albanians, not to add to the next elections a new problem and give us a new cause for boycott. In that sense, the amendment and these demands today are also. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1583	Thank you. Just to let you know that you've spent your time as vice president of the Parliament Club. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1584	I thank you, Mr. Chairman and Madam Minister, I think it's perfectly fine that the government has not accepted this amendment and that it is not in any way necessary to accept it. I'll tell you later and why. Normally, I do not agree, and I do not think that any further compromise should be found now, because just now one of the MPs said what the essence of this amendment is. The essence of this amendment is to make an exception to one national minority, thus reducing all other national minorities loyal to the Republic of Serbia. Albania's national minority has shown a lack of loyalty to the Republic of Serbia at the time of the census, has refused to sign, and is now retroactively seeking some rights, and has not used its rights at a time when it should have been used. If you were at the time of your signature, that is, the Albanian National Minority at the time of the signature was listed and determined how many there are would now be given what the rest and other national minorities. So, you have left to show loyalty to the Republic of Serbia, which is loyal to its citizens and to the national minority of Albania, and to all go on the list, to sign up and then we will know exactly how many Albanian national minorities there are in Serbia, and therefore you will be able to exercise your rights, and let's not look for something later... (President: Mr. Miatovic, please talk about the amendment. ) I am talking about the amendment, which is why I believe that the amendment is right that it is not accepted, because it cannot be subsequently sought for some rights, and at a time when it should have been done differently has not been done. I think it's perfectly fine and that no further compromise should be sought for the Albanian national minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1585	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't have answered, and you, Mr. Chairman, should have been following, reporting for the amendment, if it hadn't been for my fellow farmer... some evil intentions he prescribed for us. So it's been said that the arguments to reject the amendment are complete nonsense. The argument was a census. All of us who haven't even disputed the rights of one national minority have talked about the census, that other national minorities have used this right, have been listed, and that one of the national minorities didn't want to take advantage of it. No use of these rights have now come into place that they cannot use some other rights provided for by this law. I think that the list of any state, and especially the list of the state of Serbia, which had never had any evil intentions, has repeatedly appealed to that national minority being listed, therefore, that this could not be nonsense. The other part of the sentence, in its appeal to accept this amendment, and I am one of those who appeal to find a solution without being damaged by the other, has been said from an opportunity like this, that this amendment should be adopted unless someone has an evil intention, I don't mean people in the O.R., but out of the O.R. The law is also decided by the legislator, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We will adopt it with or without amendments. So, this evil intention, in my opinion, does not exist from any proposings, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor in this room, regardless of party membership, I do not see in any colleague that there is an evil intention, and it is said by my fellow farmer that this amendment should be accepted unless there is an evil intention. It imputes some kind of guilt that absolutely doesn't stand. The only thing I can say is that by this law, this amendment is not even precise because it is said – in the case of a national minority for which there is no complete data from the last census. So, now listen, this in the text of the amendment doesn't apply to one national minority. This could be a reason for not writing. Any national minority whose number declines on the next census could say in a certain way – we boycotted, we did not boycott and write in part. Based on this amendment that would be adopted in the case of a national minority for which there are no complete data from the last census, the national minority can say – there are no complete data. They would then use the right given in the second part of the amendment and say – taking into account data from the previous census. This means that in some future lists, given that this law will apply a little longer, it would mean that in some future lists of some national minority or all national minorities threatened by the decline of the number of inhabitants of that national minority, they could refer to this amendment and say, "I'm sorry, we don't have complete data, we're not well-listed, we want to apply this amendment." So it's not about one national minority, this amendment is about several national minorities. We have defined ourselves from the occasion in the discussions about one, and I still intend to appeal to find a solution to this national minority and not to violate any of their rights. But I also repeat, that the non-application of their right has come into place that they cannot use another right. There is no evil intention that is stated, nor is there any nonsense in rejecting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1587	The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi. Just to let you know you have one minute left. Replica? Please, before you explain to me what makes you think you have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1588	Mr. Chairman, I feel offended by the qualification of loyal Albanians, because it brings me back to the time when honest Albanians in the Milosevic regime were being discussed here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1589	I don't see that basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1590	I'd just say one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1591	I'm going to give you the right to a replica, although I don't see the right basis for the replica because you've certainly gone to elections, you respect the laws, and I don't see a reason for the replica. The calling of a part of a citizen who simply did not exercise his right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1592	Others have called for my discussion, and that's why I'm calling, and I want to explain it closer. The protection of minority rights is an integral part of international protection of human rights. That should be clear to everyone. This story of loyal Albanians, I said, does not contribute to resolving the situation at all. I'm just asking a question, because I'm counting on the Minister and Government to understand that, today 27,000 Albanians are listed on a special polling list. Several more parties are likely to take part in the next election. They will animate their membership to enroll in a special polling list. I ask, what happens on election day when the number 5,500 is written, will the other voters be told – run home, you have no right to vote. Does it make sense that a community that has 27 or 30,000 voters on a special polling list has a national council with 15,000 members? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1593	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I think we have an interesting situation here right now and I think a very important moment in the debate on the details of this bill. The interesting situation is the following: when we had the debate in principle, we announced that this was a good bill of law. Today we think we have a good amendment here, not a good bill. The adoption of this amendment would only fix one good bill a little more. We also ask people who perform on behalf of the Government to reconsider whether it would be useful, to serve the common good here today and very clearly, if this amendment were to be adopted. When I said this was an important moment, then I think we should all keep in mind here and the next, that the relations with the representatives of the national minority that we are talking about and together with that national minority are very sensitive and that, accordingly, we should respect these amendments and especially the one that came here. We are listening here today to the matter of loyalty, how it is possible to ask as a matter of loyalty to the people who have prepared this amendment, who participated in the elections for this parliament, who are participating in the work of this assembly. These people perform on behalf of their national community, show loyalty to our country now, therefore, it should also be respected here. And finally, this is 2014. I know the SRS wouldn't vote for this amendment in 2014. But an advanced party, in my court, must accept this amendment in order to correct this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1595	Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1596	Just like we've been some time behind us, thank God, because we've been dividing ourselves into similar and inappropriate lists, where the National Bank is invested with kalashnikovs and phantoms, so I think it's past the time of orders and it has to or doesn't have to be done. The political definition of SNS is also clearly shown by this bill but also by communication and dialogue, and I will repeat the communication and dialogue that we have with all representatives of national minorities. They repeat, until some people in this room take off ear plugs, they do not clearly hear the definition of this government that is clearly based on dialogue and among the members of the national minorities, but their dialogue with the society they belong to should be careful in the definition of loyalty, I agree. Is it a loyal citizen who doesn't pay taxes and has them? Is there a need to defend people like that? You don't have to. It's every citizen's duty. Do we accept everything and everything in this political courtship? No, I don't. I think that's the wrong way. Maybe that's the way for someone who has two members and both in parliament, and two votes and both in parliament, but it's not the way and it's not the system of true values. I'll say it one more time. A matter of loyalty and what it means to be loyal to the state you belong to is to work in accordance with the law, respect the state, pay taxes, work fair and correct your job. Is there something terrible about that? I'll get on the list. Is there something terrible about that? Is that the way anyone is belittled? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's the state we want to build. A country of equal odds, equal opportunities, respect for the diversity between us, the European perspective and the perspective of normal life. It's the state we want to build.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1597	Mr. Babic, I beg you, in the future, when you are given the right to replicate yourself to observe the time for this. Every time we allow ten to 15 seconds, but when we warn you to take care and bring an end to it. The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1598	Once again, I would like to underline the commitment of this government to continue and try to find a solution that would ensure that this legal solution does not produce in practice, a factual reduction, so to speak, the fields, the instruments through which this national minority can exercise its rights. Therefore, and that these rights are not achieved to a lesser extent than they belong to the practical situation on the ground. However, we do not think that disrupting the integrity of the solution in the law is a way to achieve it. We do not close the door and the possibility of finding a different comprehensive solution consistent with the treatment and of all other national minorities in the effort and dialogue that we will continue now when we reopen the amendments and additions of this law in the context of compliance with the Constitutional Court's conclusion. In the meantime, however, there are other ways to bring practice into line in both the rights and the number of members of this national minority in reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1599	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1600	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I would just like to say three things to what Mr. Babic said. I'm sorry, if that word -- the sea I used in my speech caused this kind of reaction, I apologize for it, but when I said it -- I just wanted to say that there's some logical clue that we have to stick to following things. If we accept that the Government is defined for certain values that are said here that the Progressive Party is also defined for these values, then by following logic I come to this amendment that we have to pay particular attention to and accept it, I think Mr. Babiæ, that was my suggestion, not commanding or anything like that. The second thing is, we are the two here members of the new party and MPs of the new party in this assembly, and we are also the will of some citizens in the Republic of Serbia. The will of these citizens, I also think should be respected. In our work so far, we have prepared ourselves carefully for every bill of law that has come. For each of us to make amendments to fix, in our understanding, what has come. When we got the bill that we thought was good, we said -- this is a good bill. We feel that you should do the same thing, respect these amendments, and that when we evaluate here, and it seems to me that we now have one feeling and that it is spreading here amongst the MPs, I think, based on their discussions that it is a good amendment, let's adopt that amendment. In the end, I think there's one thing that's very important here. At this point, we can also follow the country's attitude towards a national community that is particularly sensitive and that is where this sensitivity should be manifested through this respect for this amendment. That's all I wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1601	Thank you. You have 57 seconds left of the time foreseen for discussion in particular as an independent MP. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1602	Mr. Chairman, one suggestion. As you measure me seconds after two minutes, you measure the direct address of other MPs by breaking the Rules of Procedure, but I will not advertise it, which does not mean that other colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group will do so in the future. On the other hand, since I have sought the right to a replica and accept an apology, I think it is a gentlemanly and good attitude when someone is wrong to get up in public and say – excuse the word – to have to, to interpret the very words. However, what is definitely being done in this amendment, not with the proposings, but with some MPs who have been involved in the debate on this amendment, is the need for someone to argue with someone in our society, to cultivate diversity, to point at it. It's an irresponsible policy. This is also an irresponsibility towards our society, irresponsibility and towards the amendment, irresponsibility and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, irresponsibility towards the state. I don't know what suits someone in this room or at all, anywhere in Serbia that someone will argue with someone in Serbia. We don't want that kind of policy. I'm going to say once again that we want a dialogue policy. This policy of dialogue, when the positions and the amendment promoters are faced, but also the legislator, has led to the fact that this amendment is not accepted. Let's move on. We'll communicate, we'll work. Is this the last law and are we putting an end to the amendments and additions of the National Minority Council Act? Of course not. Of course, every law, including this law, has to experience grinding, it has to be done, that the work and the grinding will form time, but don't let anyone be irresponsible to the people who voted for each of us to be a citizen and to enter this hall, irresponsible to them, irresponsible to all other citizens by running a policy of conflict instead of a policy of approach. In this respect, a parliamentary group of 136 MPs differs from independent MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1603	The time, Mr. Granny, is up for the replica. Thank you very much. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1604	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1605	The word is from the People's MP Vladica Dimitrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1606	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the attention of this amendment, for one, for one, for an important reason, which is that this discussion does not go the wrong way and that it would not turn into a debate between members of a national minority and representatives of the majority people. As a member of the Bulgarian national minority, I mention it again, it is clear to all here that the rights of national minorities are not violated by any law of the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, they are improving. By participating in the drafting of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians has made sufficient reference. The main problem is not the relationship between national minorities and majority peoples, but the main problem is that national minorities, except, I say, Hungarian national communities, are not well-organised in the exercise of their laws of guaranteed rights. That is why I believe that as politicians and members of national minorities we have one fundamental role - to motivate our members to take active part in the institutional life of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I will also support colleagues who have said that this amendment should not be supported, but also those who have said that we should find or find some solution to resolve this particular issue. I'll support them for two reasons. First, members of national minorities, including, of course, the Albanian national minority, must motivate their countrymen to participate actively in the life of the Republic of Serbia, to naturally respond to the census in order to exercise their rights. But on the other hand, I also support the minister to find someone, of course, a legally defined solution to see this problem too, and all to the good co-existence of the minority and the majority people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1607	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1608	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. I would like to contribute to this discussion with one note from Minister Kori Udovici. The debate that has just taken place in this room shows you that public debate cannot cover everything that MPs in the Hall of Amendments or mutual exchange of arguments in the dialogue, and then in debate. If it wasn't obvious now, then it'll probably never be. The problem with not giving up the list, and the number on the list as the key for determining the number of members of the National Council and the amendments ahead, will essentially put the greatest difficulty ahead of Kori Udovicki. I want to help as much as I can solve this problem with a parliamentary question, for example, which is the simplest thing, to pressure you with my constitutional authority to answer me if you have found a solution, but also by continuing the dialogue here, because the future law will be in debate in this room after the election. This amendment concerns elections. The difference is huge. The other thing is, what's picturesque, unfortunately, but it's dialogue and it's democracy. The right to say what you think means to listen and what you don't like, and there's a lot being said here that I don't like at all, but that's the right that I'm going to defend everyone in this room. So, the illustration of the debate we had here gives me the right to bind this amendment to my argument that it is not a good solution to delete national councils from the register with an explanation – they are not interested. Here's the first question. How will you assess the will of members of the national community to boycott the elections? Are they interested or uninterested? It's a complete, how can I tell you, likely situation for any of the national communities that any list calls for a boycott of the election. What's that gonna be? Is that what they're interested in or aren't they? Secondly, you have the right to boycott the elections and in the law to which all these amendments and additions are called, on the selection of MPs. Does it occur to anyone to challenge the right of political parties, who participate in the elections, to boycott these elections with their strategy? Do you understand how sensitive the issues are in the ministry's decision that ends with the national community not showing interest in the establishment and operation of national councils? So I ask you once again to think about all the amendments, about all the arguments that have been heard here. Let's compare it to a public debate and try together to find solutions now that won't create problems on the ground. Here we have heard from the amendment promoters - and what if a special voter's list is listed, and I'm going to ask that question with an update, because there are now 27,000, and the basis, also legally, for the number of national councils to be drawn from the second data, who will solve it? Were these not interested, are they interested? We're making an unnecessary problem. Let me repeat that I will try within my jurisdiction as a member of Parliament to revive a dialogue that I have no doubt that will be good between the ministry representatives and you personally and the representative of that national community who considers that there is a problem. With the hope that, as much as I do not have the right to hear the various expressions and arguments in this room, they will not be aware of what we have actually said here, I want to support you and to keep it in writing in the stenograms as an opposition MP, because I know exactly how difficult it is for anyone who will look at the solutions you and your associates, I hope, to find the subject of the amendment that is before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1609	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1610	We just heard some strange expressions - Kalashnikov, National Bank, quarrel and division. First the Kalashnikov and the National Bank. The one who's been told he went into the National Bank with Kalashnikov, I kicked him out of work, and he hasn't been in politics in a year, and you've been with him for a year and a half in the coalition. Secondly, the right of MPs to propose amendments and the right of MPs to support the amendment of the other MP is not a dispute, it is not a division, it is our right. I think a little more attention and feelings for the culture of dialogue and for the understanding of parliamentaryism wouldn't be a waste to anyone in this room. I think that's how we can solve this problem all the way. I urge once again to adopt the amendment to Article 7.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1611	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1612	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 106, 104, without the right to speak directly to the other People's Parliament and to speak on the agenda. If someone calls in and says they're using the amendment, then they're talking about the amendment, not the replica. That is why I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, I will ask that we plead on this injury to the Rules of Procedure, because I expect the same way, same rapper, same attitude towards all MPs. I didn't understand that style that year and a half, like this or something. I am not a farmer, I appreciate that I do not understand that language, although I respect farmers very much, so I will ask my colleague Marijan Rističević, also a fellow farmer, not from Vrakar, but from another part, from Novi Karlovci, to translate all these things to me, so if there is a replica, I will contact you the second time, when my fellow farmer translates to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1613	Mr. Babić, first of all, I can tell you that my colleague Zivkovic did not address you directly at all, but rather used his time as an amendment to replicate you. He had one minute at his disposal, and if he'd asked for the right to a replica, he'd have used two. So there was no direct address. I'm also asking you not to throw it out of the parliamentary bench while I'm answering. [[Zoran Babiæ, from the place: He didn't even get time for replication.]] In any case, do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting whether there were injuries to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1615	All right. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, a colleague named Aleksandar Markovic first appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1616	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, 107th and 106th. Article 107, which says that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, but a number of members of 106 are said to be able to speak only of the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Mr. Zivkovic and his friend talked about everything today, just not about the amendments and what's on the agenda, and you tolerate them. Unspent statements, inappropriate statements, irresponsible statements are made here. This is where they are given a flat-rate assessment and you are constantly tolerating it, Mr. Chairman. I understand the need for Mr. Zivkovic and his friend to promote their political idea. I understand their anxiety, too, but Mr. Zivkovic, I ask you to understand that as a country we are in a specific situation these days, that you have at least a little consideration and that you are polite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1617	My colleague, I can only tell you that in a certain way you have misused the right provided for by the Rules of Procedure, because in advertising the Rules of Procedure, you have used the right to replication. It was also in previous advertising of the Rules of Procedure and as you can see, the criteria for MPs are exactly the same, regardless of whether they come from the ranks of MPs who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia or those who do not support it. If you insist or create such a situation, you can be sure that the other one of your political insinuation will respond as well. Do you want to make the National Assembly's statement of injury in the day of the vote? (Alexander Markovic, from town: No, thank you. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Zivkovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1618	Thank you. Since it is the Law on National Minorities and Councils, which implies tolerance, means one dosed approach, parliamentaryism, one domestic education, I will skip all attempts by some colleagues to return a decade back, where they were then. It's their right. I don't want to get involved in that part. But as chairman, I ask you to protect this house, not me. I have ways of protecting myself, through the Rules of Procedure, through my work as an MP and in some other ways that are ethically and legally allowed, but I think it would be good to protect this home from trying to return to some time that should not be pleased with any of the MPs present here. The mention of who the farmer is, who's from Vračar, the mention of the flood in the debate on this agenda point is the demagogy of the worst kind. Parliament is sitting and working in full capacity when it is an emergency, not when it is an emergency. If we're not supposed to work for the flood today, which we certainly won't find guilty here in this House for these floods, then we're going to stop working. But if it's our job to represent citizens, even those who have problems, express themselves today, then I ask you to let go of demagogy, doctoring, smarting on the other side where there's no basis for that and get back to the subject. The topic is the law, Article 7, of an amendment which is obviously politically willing to be accepted, but there is no determination because probably no one can get a decision on the phone whether or not this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1619	Time. I thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. I know you're an expert in holding the National Assembly session in emergency condition. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1620	Article 107(1) and Article 103(1), etc. Mr. Chairman, I don't know on what basis the previous speaker spoke. Apparently, it was a replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. They weren't allowed until now, but I still want to give you the right, which in a certain way is a positive discrimination against the opposition. But by asking some fair exposure, an exhibition that will not violate the dignity of the congregation, you need to listen more carefully to what the speakers say. My fellow farmer began to speak very persuasively about farmers. He was also talking about floods. That's a very sensitive question at this time, let's say for me. I have damages of 100,000 euros per 100 hectares flooded. I don't know how I'm gonna get out of this, and my destiny divides into thousands and thousands of farmers who are flooded. In such a way to talk about farmers and floods, to bear no harm they have suffered, which is many, many. Many farmers, my colleagues, were not fortunate to receive 525,000 euros from the country, to find a job for life, as my fellow farmer said, and in 2007, when he received 525,000 euros to plant a vineyard on land that was meant to be the subject of denationalisation. So if we haven't already got that money...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1621	Mr. Risticevic, can you explain to me what this has to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1622	I've advertised Article 107 of Position 1 of the Parliament's dignity, and I feel for myself along with my fellow farmers who have suffered damage. I feel very hurt. I think that their dignity and me as their representative has been violated, because people and floods can't be talked so pessimistically, he literally said, who suffered unprecedented damage, because they had not had the honour of getting 55,000 euros from the state as my previous farmer colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1623	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1624	I'm sorry to hear from you again. I think the members of 106, 108 and 109 were injured. Can I explain? (President: Yes. ) As stated in Article 106, paragraph 1. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. We just had a performance in the context of everything, except for what was the agenda point. According to Articles 108 and 109. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, chairman, shall be obliged to warn the MP if he does not speak about the item of the agenda, and if that MP continues to speak even after warning of what is not the point of the agenda, to give him a warning measure, on the basis of Article 109. I mean, Mr. Chairman, that you didn't do what your obligation was, and that's why I advertised the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1625	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1626	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. I can't keep quiet here one fact, one sentence that's been spoken here, and it's said that only the National Council of Hungarians has no problem and the only national council of all 19 is doing well. That's not true, and I want to say this because I don't want this to go in and it's only written in a stenogram that one day someone's going to read and study. National councils have their own problems. Some already hold the third term in some ways, but in the direct elections it is the first. So, not everyone works properly, but I think that what's law and constitution set out for them, and that's the fulfillment of those four areas, so education, culture, official use of language and letter and information, they meet and do what they can. The problems that exist and follow national advice may concern the country's relationship, the ministry. We know there is no Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, and we heard what is the percentage of national communities in the Republic of Serbia. In my opinion, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, especially in these sensitive times, when we survived in the 1990s, when some of the national communities are still afraid to enroll in special voter lists, that the absence of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights should exist. I simply see this reason that the state in national minorities is somehow saving. The problems that exist, as far as national councils are concerned, that national councils for some of their rights cannot really fight and that perhaps the large national communities have the countries of origin behind them. I'm a member of a national community that doesn't have a home state, and so is my former counterpart who spoke of the Bunjevci. We've lived here 270 years. This is our only country. So, we have no one to get textbooks from, but to my national community, for example, there are 37 textbooks, which are treated as low-level textbooks, which can only be published by the Bureau of Publishing textbooks, which exists in Belgrade, and we know that these problems were not until Vojvodina had full autonomy. There was a book publishing office in Novi Sad that had a professional service that published these textbooks. So there is no good relationship between the state and these national councils. In my opinion, this Council for National Communities, which was founded but never worked, the coordination of national councils has never come to life, as an institution of the National Communities Council, which should really be that buckle and which should be a contact between the state, the ministry, the office, I don't know what to call it about the absence of the ministry, doesn't work. So to talk about that the National Community Council of Hungary is the only one that works well, where no one argues, where everything goes well, that's not true. Maybe you should look at it and look at it from other angles. The National Council of the Russian Community does not seem to say that it may not be so party-colored, such as some other national councils, but because of this charmingness that various associations are involved, various cultural and artistic societies that have entered the national council, I can tell you that it works well, as well as all other national councils that are in Vojvodina. I can also show that one good side about funding, that the funds coming from the Republic of Serbia's budget are being delayed, and the funds coming from the province budget, means from the Regional Secretariat for Administration and Minority, come regularly. Perhaps the problems in national councils need to be seen differently, not said they don't work, that only one national council works well, and all the others fight.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1627	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1628	Thank you, Chairman. I'll use the time of MPs. For the Parliamentary Group, Boris Tadic – A New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia is an issue that is currently being discussed very important. The findings we have heard in the last hour, two hours and the fact that representatives of individual national minorities sitting here in the Assembly are not satisfied with the text of the law on amendments and additions to the National Minorities Act. That they have a very legitimate right to point out. This is the only way to find out and to believe that this law is an emergency procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1629	Mr. Veselinović, please speak for a minute to return to the amendment. If you think you're talking in principle, that debate is over, now it's in particular, and I would ask you to return to the amendment submitted by Parliamentarians Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi to Article 7. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1630	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It seems that this rule applies only to our parliamentary group, since I would not say that the last hour and a half of the time has only been discussed on this amendment. There were other findings that were far more extensive than what I was going to say. So, I believe that the proposing representative, the government representative, Mrs. Kori Udovici, should have respected this amendment, which was legitimately given to representatives of the national minority sitting here in the National Assembly of Serbia. The very fact that they are sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia means that they recognise the country's legitimacy. Some have tried to argue with them through the debate. On the other hand, none of them know better than themselves what is for the national minority, in particular the Albanian national minority, is important. Our findings were confirmed by representatives of the four national minorities, who spoke about national councils, the executive boards of these national councils, that it was not good that the Ministry, or the Government, determined who could be a member of the Executive Board of the National Council. I therefore believe, once again, that it would be good to consider accepting these amendments, because in this way the rights acquired by national minorities would be protected and not put into question the existing norms which gave certain rights to national minorities, above all, in terms of how they were given the rights given to them by the National Councils Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1631	Is there anyone else answering this amendment for a word? Mr. Pavicevic, on what grounds? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: How much time do I have left? You have one minute left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1632	I'm talking about an amendment to Article 7. I would like, just once again, to try to influence myself as a national MP here on the parliamentary majority and on the representatives of the Government, the representative, to reconsider the content of this amendment. Serbia's government, as its goal, has defined Serbia's full membership in the EU. Negotiations were said to try to end by the end of 2018. The formula on which the EU rests is unity in diversity. Mr. Arsic, with differences, which means we can't all think of it as one. It's perfectly normal to have different approaches, to have different interpretations. We're here in the right place to get to the one who's the best in meeting these different approaches and interpretations. It is my opinion that by respecting and accepting this amendment, we come to what is best for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1633	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word is submitted to the amendment by Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1634	Thank you, Chairman. With this amendment to Article 9, we propose that the number of members of the national minority needed for the constitution of the national council be reduced from 40% to 30%. We explained this by the fact that the last election cycle showed that Serbian citizens' interest in social activities, and thus in the elections, was reduced. Something like 50% of the population went to the polls. How do you expect members of national minorities to be listed in a special polling list, namely to show their membership to that nation at such a significant percentage of 40% when the general interest of Serbian citizens in social flows is reduced? Of course, in the meantime, since the last census, and this is one of the arguments made by the number of members of the national minorities, it will not certainly increase, as will not even increase the number of members of Serbian nationality. Unfortunately, the number of Serbian citizens falls year after year. They say a town the size of Somboro disappears annually in Serbia. That is why we have proposed to reduce this percentage to 30 and thus allow members of national minorities who do not have such capacity, especially for national minorities who are distributed across the Republic, across the country, to enable them to reach this 40% percentage that is not small. Imagine a national minority, for example, that has 50,000, 60,000 members. There are such minorities that I do not name them, for example, one half of which lives in the north of Bačka remains in the rest of Vojvodina, and nearly half or a third of them live outside Vojvodina in Belgrade and other urban places that are difficult to reach and have little interest in enrolling in the voter's list, i.e. they have not declared themselves members of that national minority. I therefore believe that you should have considered this circumstance, I would say a new environment that will not improve in the coming period and that you should have gone to meet the members of the national minorities and reduced this percentage to 30%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1635	Is anyone else answering this amendment? (No) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1636	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the government has also attached its argument to that inappropriate formulation that eradicating national councils from the register may arise because of the lack of interest of members of national councils. Although I don't understand why, I'm going to try to look at this problem from another aspect, which is funding, especially financing election activities in the elections for the national councils that are expecting us this year. Since we have all agreed that these are technical changes to the law and it is even said that this will not be a point of changing the laws concerning national minorities, although it is a legitimate question – should it wait for elections for national councils to be over and fundamental changes affecting national minorities should be made? I will also try to look at the draft law from that point of view, i.e. the amendment. I especially want to draw your attention to this funding for the elections because this issue is not treated in any way by this bill. Who will and in what way will finance and more importantly, who will control the spending of funds during election campaigns for national councils of national minorities? The question arises – will there be any privileged and privileged lists or individuals favored by the Ministry? You'll say you won't. The Bosniaks need with all the negative experiences they have, especially during this period, to believe your word. Therefore, it is not clearly defined how the funds will be spent for the election of national councils. This is about controlling public officials' participation in campaigns for elections of national councils and authorities... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... in this process and so I don't get out of the topic I'm going to talk about this problem especially when it comes to the election amendment. This lack proves how misunderstanding is actually... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Do I have more time? Not even an MP's group? (President: Your parliamentary group has another minute. ) This lack proves the lack of understanding of the problem faced by national councils here is completely unclear how this interest of members of national minorities will be fostered in the existence of councils and thus avoiding this famous erasure from the register of national councils. That's all I'd have to say about this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1637	According to the amendment, the MP, Dr Janko Veselinovic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1638	As proof that this law has entered the procedure without serious analysis is also what the colleague said, but also the fact that we received as the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – NDS more written but also phone calls from various NGOs that challenged or challenged certain provisions. Among other things, the issue of funding and spending control for a campaign for national councils. That, Your Honor, is at the very least the lack of this law, because the issue has not been worked out. The financing of political parties has been arranged and there is a clear procedure for spending the political parties' resources to conduct the elections. When it comes to implementing elections for national councils, even though you have one of the rules of procedure, you have not regulated the issue of spending control of pre-election campaign funds for elections for national councils. I wouldn't blame you if you didn't say this law was procedural. I think that when you settled the question of who's holding the election, that it's RIK now, that you should have arranged who, who, who and how much of the report on the spending of funds intended for elections for national councils. The election's coming to us. There's gonna be an election. The issue will remain unsettled and we will wait for the next four years to settle the issue if it is ever covered by the new National Council Act that you are announcing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1639	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Muamer the Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1640	The Honorable Presidency, minister, my colleague Meho Omerovic has submitted the amendment to both this and that previously in the same sense. We wanted as a parliamentary group to best avoid some misunderstandings. In a previous proposal, Mr Meso submitted that the time to call elections should be reduced from 60 days to 30 days to reduce the time without which a national minority would be without a national council. However, we accept your argument which is of a technical nature. In this second amendment that Mr. Meho suggested and I would like to think more of it, we have one serious thing. We propose that national councils of national minorities be able to re-election in the conditions of identified abuse in the use of financial resources. We have a lot of arguments for this, and we think that the possibility should be given to the state, because if someone abuses the financial resources of the national minorities it's really a huge reason for new choices to come and come. One of the strong arguments we have is that the government suspended funding of some national councils in early 2013 precisely because it was found that certain national councils did not spend money properly and did not provide valid documents on the spending of money allocated to national councils. I think this is a quality amendment, I think it needs to be considered and I think it is extremely important for the citizens of Serbia how their money is spent for every purpose. In this way, we will give additional opportunity to sanction people who are irresponsibly using funds and who are handling national councils, regardless of the national council, and to lose the ability to continue handling the councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1641	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1642	Thank you, Your Honor. Our parliamentary group will support this amendment by distinguished counterpart Mehe Omerovic, regardless of how he, as chairman of the Committee on National Minorities in this Assembly, did not support the very important amendments that we have submitted. We feel that even this amendment is not irrelevant and that it amends this law. It is very important for funding to be transparent, as of course all the issues we talked about are important, so we will support Mehe Omerovic's amendment. I urge him to influence his coalition partners to have this amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1643	Thank you. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1644	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The amendment to Article 16 that we have submitted introduces a simple electoral analogy that is consistent with all the electoral processes, which is that if the election list on which a member who has ceased his term of office no longer has the mandate to be assigned to the list with the highest number of mandates won. Therefore, the government's argument of rejecting this amendment is very confusing and says that accepting this amendment would question the continuity and legitimacy of the already established national council. I'd like someone to explain to me what's going on with this mandate and who's being assigned a mandate in case there are no more candidates on the list, and how does that question legitimacy and continuity? It is precisely in the case that we now have, that it is not defined what is done with that mandate, that is how the legitimacy and continuity are questioned. It's simply a vague explanation of the government, which is why they reject one logical amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1645	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga, to article 18. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1646	Dear Chairman, I asked in my amendment to add as a last resort that a special voter list of national minorities is being educated before any election for national councils. That's what I wanted to do, I mean it's not said in that rule on a special polling list, when, in what way, the special polling list is updated, who updates it. We know he's being updated by the county's referents, but there's a lot of indiscretion. There is no communication between the single polling list and the special polling list. If there were at least a section in that unique polling list if that person were listed in a special polling list, it doesn't have to write to which national community he belongs, but it would in some way facilitate the work of the municipality's referents. The idea of that amendment was actually given to me by some of the community-based referents, who suggested that elections for national councils would come where there would be a lot of problems. We know that there are also problems with a unique voter list, and with a special polling list there are really many problems. So, I'd like to know how special voter lists are updated.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1647	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1648	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. A very important issue that has been difficult to resolve both in the drafts and proposals of the basic text of the 2009 law. So how do you ensure that all members of the national community have free access to the vote, how do they keep records without jeopardising their right to be recorded in the single electoral list or, until we have passed the Single Election List Act, in lists run by local self-government? The voter lists are also a matter of personal data, because with your name and name, if you have the right to be included in the voter's list, practically everything anyone needs to know about you. This law is also related to the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, which was passed after the law on which it is concerned. Any attempt to register people who want to vote on the day of the election of national councils is welcome. In that sense, I want to support the amendment of my colleague Olena Papuga, as well as because, as many members of these amendments and the addition of this law may be, analogy can apply – we rely on the Law on the selection of MPs, so both there and here, I will once again talk about it when it comes to Article 36, which was submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, so you have that analogy cannot be fully used. Then you have a problem that counterpart Olena Papuga wants to solve by having a unique electoral list, if it's under the Law on selecting MPs, there is a procedure when it is concluded, as there is a procedure as updated. On a personal request to change the entry of personal data, to delete from the electoral list, to change any data relating to a person or to the official duty of the authority responsible for the single electoral list, to obtain data on the death of the voters, to change citizenship, to the error in the home number, to the first entry in the voter list for persons who have turned 18, etc. So, that kind of update can't be applied here, at least to us, who asked how the special voter list was updated, said it would be explained, because I know what the procedure for updating the single polling list, about which there is a law, which we also brought with a lot of difficulties. That is why it is important to consider whether there is an obligation under other laws, where I am also talking about the Personal Data Protection Act, any way that, if there is already an analogy, an establishment, I will say that under the terms of the quote, please don't hold my word, the unique electoral list of special voting lists. I know exactly the dimensions of the difficulty in establishing that. I also know what all the other regulations require to change and what a huge job it is, but the role of opening a dialogue on this is enormous, because to members of national communities such a system, to know who is listed in the single electoral list on the basis of statements and volunteering, you release them from the situation that we had on the ground, and to have someone comment or count or observe who is listed on the special polling list. It's life. It happened in local self-governments where special ballots were created. Secondly, you disable or reduce the possibility of being a person who is not actually on a special polling list and cannot be because it is not on a single polling list. It's the easiest thing to solve, because that check can be done by a reference that makes a special voter list. I will conclude with an argument to support such an amendment or at least to support the opening of a topic on the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, at some public hearing that we will organise, on a round table, however appropriate, on a national community that does not have its own national council for the time being, such as: The snitches, who we know wanted and wanted to have difficulty registering under the law as a national community, that is, to apply for a special voter's list. If you have an instrument in front of you that needs to be defined in the law so as to facilitate the rights of those to whom it applies, then I think that every suggestion and every dialogue is welcome and that there can be no justification – we are doing it with great difficulties. I know exactly what kind of difficulties it is, since, let me just point out in the end, and the last law we needed, it's the Law on issuing personal papers in a non-partisan procedure, because of a huge number of Roma who didn't have any documents, so you had situations that were suddenly listed somewhere without having ID cards. You've had situations with the same mother number. We have passed this law so that they can also receive a birth certificate, a copy of the birth certificate and citizenship and everything else. So we don't stand on our own or support the amendments to our colleagues because we don't know what law enforcement looks like on the ground. On the contrary, almost every single one of these amendments is because, to detail and to the final details and details, we know what difficulties the law has in applying in local self-government. It is time to elections, and I don't expect any jobs to be done in three or four months, but I expect it to be heard that there is also knowledge and experience and skills here after the election to open a single process of real dialogue, in which we would now have a single electoral list for all sorts of other choices, from national through provinces, to local ones. It's an important record. I don't doubt the government's good will to successfully finish that part of the job, but I have experience with the electoral lists for national elections, with enormous difficulties for the local self-governments who led them and by creating pressure on all those in charge to actually create a unique voter list. When I ask people who may be less concerned with this, because I consider the issue of electoral rights and the question of enrollment in one of the human rights lists, and that is why it is important, and human rights do not have hierarchy, they can have priorities at some point, but have no hierarchy, then I ask them – which country has the most orderly electoral list, so to speak, an impeccable polling list in the EU, or among the candidate countries, that is, in Europe as a continent? It usually draws people to old democracies or developed economies. No, Montenegro. Because it is important that you also know the last change on the day the voter lists are concluded, because it is important because every vote decides in the local or national elections. It is important for me to have special voter lists so arranged that every member of the national minority, every member of the national community, can trust that the special voter list has been updated before it, so that it can be checked how it is updated and that it can simply be checked whether or not it is in line with the single voter list, where we are all adults with voting law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1649	Thank you. There are two minutes left from the parliamentary group, and you've spent seven minutes and 30 seconds. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 21st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. Mr. Veselinović, you've called late, I've already moved on to the second amendment. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: The unit does not work. I'll give you a call on this amendment, so tell me what you wanted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1650	Dear Chairman, I already had a problem with the MP's unit during the chairmanship of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's office, and I am asking you to respect it, because it is not up to me, but to the MP's unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1651	I've respected and given you my word on this next amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1652	This amendment to Article 18, which amends Article 44, is one of the evidence that some of the rights already established have been corrected or reduced. That can be mathematically expressed. In this article, it is necessary for a national minority to sign at least five per cent of the minority to be defined and set up its voter list. It was a solution from the previous law. It is now added to that provision that their number cannot be less than 300. So, a national minority who had or had 5,000 members to enlist in a special polling list was required to sign 5% of the national minority. That's 250. I'm setting an example. It is now necessary for that request to be signed by 300 members of that national minority. What's that for? Why have you already obtained rights corrected and mathematically reduced and limited the possibility that some national minority, small national minorities, have a particular problem, enlisted in a special electoral list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1653	Thank you. Amendment to Article 21 has been made to the People's Parliament of Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1654	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment also applies to the special voter list. I just hope and trust you that there will be no more problems like the 2010 issue, when elections for national councils and when there are many members of the national minorities, regardless of what they were listed in the special voter lists, simply went to their polling stations or went where they were registered, where they have a residence, and could not vote because they were simply not on the list, their names were not on a special voter's list. I hope you'll fix it and that by October, when the national council elections come, you'll be able to make your...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1655	Please, colleague Risticevic, sit on the bench. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1656	To members of the national minorities to vote and not to take away their right to do so. I just haven't received your answer yet, and I'm interested, because I want to participate in all of this, to help, not just my national community, but others, as a national MP, as the special voter lists are updated.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1657	Thank you. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) People's MP Enis Imamovic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1658	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With this amendment, we want to correct an inadmissible fact that in the conduct of a special polling list means any analysis of a special polling list. So, watch out – analyze the special polling list. This article also disagrees with Article 24 of this proposal for a law which provides that data from a special electoral list enjoy special protection, as well as that any use of data from a special electoral list is prohibited and punishable, except from the exercise of other rights of national minorities. So this is about using, not analyzing. It is written in this bill of law, and something like that is unacceptable, especially because of the fact that in this law, in no way, any single point, the participation of public officials and authorities in the electoral process for the selection of national councils is not treated. This opens up the possibility that the ruling parties, the parties that are in power, are in a smooth and without any control and legislative regulations favour their loyal candidates for national councils on the ground. We've heard they exist. We've heard that there are loyal and disloyal. Examples resulting from such behaviour by parties in power are particularly visible when it comes to Bosniaks. Such analyses and analyses open up opportunities that are consistent with international conventions on the rights and freedoms of national minorities. We now have the possibility that some high representative of the government, a senior state official, is going around the field uninterrupted and imposes a minority choice to use state resources for such a thing, to send a message and often abuses to send a message to the public. Just for a little while longer, and I'm done, thank you for giving me another sentence. So, I just want to warn you that these solutions are rough with all international standards. I invite you to listen to the parties of national minorities not because you have to, you have a majority and you don't have to listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1659	Thank you. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Professor Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy, Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1660	As you can see, MP Boris Tadic, NDS, ZZS and ZS have very detailedly analysed this law on amendments to the Law on National Councils and some amendments have coincided with amendments submitted by other parliamentary groups. That's the case with this amendment. We believe that the word analysis when it comes to voting lists for the selection of national minorities' councils is inadequate and that it could be replaced by another word or as we have suggested in this amendment to add the words "in accordance with legal authority". I am convinced that the government's proposal was not directed in the wrong direction, but interpretation and application of the law can sometimes also be a search for holes in the law or inaccurate terms and can be misused. I therefore consider it an analysis, that it is contrary directly to the position of another member of this law which says that these lists can be used in accordance with the view of prohibiting the use of data in the electoral list except for the purpose of the election. Therefore, data from the polling list can only be used for the purpose of the selection. However, it is not explicitly said in this article, and I therefore believe that the government could accept this precision. Since none of the opposition's amendments were accepted, it was not our expectation that they would accept this amendment. That is why I believe that the minister did not pass the exam at this first appearance in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1661	Thank you. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Enis Imamovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1662	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 108. So, I answered the word after the previous amendment, did you not see me or do I not know for what reason... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1663	I'm sorry, you weren't in the system so technically we could give you a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1664	It says here that my request has been accepted and I am talking about this amendment, you have moved on to another, please allow me to discuss the previous amendment. (President: It's all right, there you go. ) Therefore, as regards amendments submitted by NDS colleagues, this also specifies how a special electoral list can be conducted, which introduces other legal powers in terms of analysis.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1665	Please, you can't follow the previous amendment, we've already moved on to the second amendment. You don't have time. Please wait for a friend and an amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1666	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, it's not my fault you didn't notice me in the system. Chairman, you don't have time for your parliamentary group. I can speak by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1668	Please report to this amendment and explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1669	So, I answered the amendment that you didn't give me your word for. I've been in the system here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1670	But you weren't in the system so we could react here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1671	It's really not my fault. My unit says he's accepted. Please let me speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1672	What amendment to know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1673	I'm talking about an amendment to Article 22. Therefore, this amendment provides that after the word "analysis" in accordance with the legal powers, it would be acceptable if there were other legal powers. So our amendment, which I had previously talked about, treats this one disputable word, which says, "analysing", because it is impossible to allow and serve literally the parties who are in power to carry out any analysis of the special electoral list, and not especially of that electoral list that refers and applies to elections for national alliances because we see that there are numerous abuses of such analyses, the examples are numerous. I will list some we know and play a major role in them by police, judges, prosecutors, inspectors and other bodies with public powers that literally project this electoral will on the ground. This law also allows for such an analysis by the fact that there is no clear regulation that regulates the involvement of public officials and authorities in this law. That's why we asked you to take this law... (Chairman: Time, please. I literally spoke minutes after the amendment. I'm asking you to let me go. (President: here's another 30 seconds. Thank you very much. So this is about abuses that allow parties that are in power to project electoral will, and especially to design the electoral will of minorities, and I ask you not to interrupt me in the future, because you are disrupting my concentration. I literally now, after that I have to continue to discuss with all your interruptions, here's only this amendment you've interrupted me four or five times.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1674	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1675	I really need to find out which way to draw attention to you that the Rules of Procedure and Rule 106 – the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. In this case, we're talking about an amendment. One word “analysis ” has been misused, which is a mathematical, medical, legal term in which I see nothing wrong. Let one word like that talk about everything and nothing is less than unserious. This is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I want the MPs to be heard about the injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1676	In the day of the vote, MPs will declare whether I have hurt the Rules of Procedure. Please, under amendment to Article 32, MP Dr Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1677	The amendment to Article 32, which amends Article 60 in Article 1 which reads – the formulation of this article of the law is quite sufficient, in order to streamline budget costs and prevent congestion in polling stations, should remove the possibility that representatives of the elected election lists should be able to oversee the work of the electoral committees. Why does it matter? By streamlining the budget, some budget resources could be focused on the work of national councils, as the Commission for Minority Rights, during the allocation of the budget, gives one third of the same funds in nominal terms, to all national minorities, and two thirds of them are based on established language standardisation, according to the existence of the culture institute, which the Bunjevci do not have, then on the existence of the daily list, after the existence of schools at all levels, from primary to university, etc. Only a few national minorities have this privilege, as one item automatically binds to the next and disables the existence of these items. That's what Bunjevac's handicap is, until the language standardisation is over, there's no possibility of anything else. We must agree that all national minorities have the right to exist, to belong, to preserve and cultivate their customs, to use their language and letters officially. The rebels still don't have this case, using their own language and letters, it's been in the process for a long time, but I hope that this government will speed up this process and give us agreement on the official use of the rebel language and the letter, because it's been doing this standardisation for seven or eight years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1678	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, submitted an amendment to Article 36. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, submitted an amendment to Article 36. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has a Udovici minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1679	I want to say that I accept the amendment on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1680	Since the government has accepted the amendment, we will declare it in the voting day. National MP Gordana Komic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1681	I use the time of the parliamentary group and the time of the authorised representative, if necessary. So today, the Committee tabled an amendment and I voted against the amendment at the Committee's session, and it will be so in the voting day, unlike the amendments submitted by MP Zlata Djeric, for which I will be, because there are many good reasons to be adopted. What's the amendment to the committee? The way the electoral committees are drawn up on the day of elections for national councils, by the proposal of the committee, and in an explanation, not in the very text of the law, it is said – that election committees will be formed in accordance with the Law on the selection of MPs and we call for a member and position on how the RIK does so. That part is inapplicable. It repeats here what I have announced in the previous amendment that the Law on the Selection of Members of the People is being applied from some point to some extent. When it is looked at how election committees are formed on the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and competences of the RIK, we will make a problem for national councils. I know exactly why you think this is going to be as simple as I know why it's not going to be simple. I ask you to give a lot of thought to the instruction that will be given to the analogy of RIK, not to be, that you do not mind the argument, when it comes to the Law on the selection of MPs, here, as we do when we are political parties and we are looking for election committees, and here we do not mind, or as we do not mind when we are political parties, so we consider it desirable that people who have not competed on lists such as Minister Kori Udovic, such as Minister Vujovic, such as Minister Krstic, are still there, and we do not consider them to be without legitimacy to be members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. An amendment that observes the Executive Board so that it can have members who are not members of the National Council, we call them non-legislative people here. He can't do both. We cannot look all the time for a selection of the National Council in the fall analogy with the Law on the selection of MPs, to see that we do not have a solution in the draft law, regardless of the quality of the public debate on how the election committee will be drawn up and then we say, the committee will submit an amendment to which this will be done in RIK's jurisdiction. We'll create a problem where he wasn't there, even under the existing law. The Republic Election Commission cannot, by the same principles, make a decision on the election committees for national elections to do so for the election of national councils. I ask you to look very carefully at this solution once again, so that there will be absolutely no unnecessary damage in the competencies of the Republic Election Commission in control of us who will monitor the work of the state authorities when it comes to elections and ultimately in the reaction of the candidates themselves in the elections for the national councils of the list and of all those who will participate in this election process. It just seems like a good solution. Not that it's not a good solution, but it's the worst we could do as an amendment to the Committee that we have today. I'm against it, and I'm staying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1682	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Elvira Kovac reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1683	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. Here today, the SVM has been mentioned several times, but since we have always been constructive, I did not want to abuse the Rules of Procedure and that, as some of the amendments, we talk about everything and everything. So now I'm going to use that time and repeat what we said in principle, which is that we certainly welcome the fact that among the first proposals here is the amendment and addition of the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. It's not that much of an emergency procedure, since the almost identical proposal was here in December of last year. I am very pleased that the honourable minister today said that as soon as these amendments are adopted and complemented, it will begin to work on a new one, all of which are doing is to bring the law into line with the Constitutional Court's decision. As far as the amendments adopted today by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, whose member I am, he honestly surprised us all today. He refers to election committees. A member of the proposal, which we have already talked about in principle, has determined that election committees are appointed by the Republic Election Commission – president, four members and deputies. However, the proposal was for them to be people already on a special polling list. The Committee's amendment deletes this part - from a special polling list, which means that members of the election committees can be those who are not on this unique special polling list. The argument given is that in some environments, where members of the national minority do not represent the majority population, but are in the minority, it is impossible to respect that all members, meaning four members, president and their deputies, are indeed persons already on the special polling list. I would really constructively ask that there be no abuse, that those parts where members of the national minority represent the majority population, here in the explanation it is said that the electoral committees will certainly be by nature of things made up of these people, I would pray that it is really kept in mind that where there are opportunities, whether there are members of national minorities there, I, for example, come from Zrenjanin where Hungarians do not represent the majority population, but I believe that there are enough of us, that all of us, a very large number of Hungarians are listed a special electoral list from Zrenjanin, wherever it is possible to be these people, and indeed, if in some major areas, we have heard that we have respected ministerial assistants today, that the problem represents minorities that are scattered and do not live in one territory, to apply this solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1684	Thank you. Minister Kori Udovicki picked up the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1685	I would just like to confirm that the way the election board members are proposed and appointed will work. It will be arranged by the RIK manual for the conduct of these elections and will take care of how it will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1686	Thank you. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1687	Thank you, Chairman. I wanted this amendment to simplify the vote. The change says that the polling post is set for a vote where there are at least 100 voters. With this amendment, I asked that it be reduced to 50, because we know that we have villages where members of the national minority are not 100, and then they were given that right to vote. They have to travel to town halls, which is very difficult nowadays. We know that mostly the rural population is made up of older people. Someone's got to drive them there. They've got to hire buses. It's just that the problem is that people travel to a municipal place to vote. Please respect this amendment. It's purely technical and simplistic, and it doesn't do anything. It just shrinks from 100 to 50, which I think will be a better solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1688	Thank you. The 42nd Amendment, with correction, was brought together by the MPs of the People's Republic of Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1689	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The aim of the amendment is to make the issue of official use of minority language, especially when drawing up electoral lists, mandatory, not optionally, as set out in the solution offered. I will only quote the reasons given by the minister when submitting the report on the law, which says consistently and clearly implements the concept of national councils as an instrument of cultural autonomy for national minorities. So that's the purpose of the National Council. I think that the solution offered by the law is contrary to Article 11(4) and Article 10 of the basic law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of national minorities, which provides that the official use of the language of national minorities implies the release of public documents and the keeping of official records and the collection of personal data in the languages of national minorities and the acceptance of these documents in those languages as essential, use of language on ballots and voting materials, use of language in the work of representative bodies. Also, this issue has been regulated by Article 10(1). Framework Conventions on the Protection of National Minorities, which obliges Contracting Parties to ensure the right of each member of the national minority to use their minority language uninterrupted. I will quote just one more document that is not yet binding on Serbia, and this is about Article 2. The EU Treaty, which says the Union is based on values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of members of national minorities. I don't think all these cited documents absolutely provide for the exclusive application of minority language, but they put it in a binding way, so the amendment applies to that too.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1690	Thank you. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment, with correction, the MPs of the People’s Republic of Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi together submitted. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1691	This amendment is similar to the previous amendment, and it concerns the consistent implementation of the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. I also understand the argument in that direction that this could damage minorities who do not have local authority in any municipality, but perhaps a more compromise solution could be made to state only instead of the university that the name of the electoral list is listed in the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter, both in the language and in the letter of the national minority, without adding that obligation to make official use of at least one local self-government. It would probably be a better solution, but it is up to the government to think that the laws already adopted and which have the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are being consistently implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1692	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulajman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic jointly submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1693	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This amendment provided for the National Council to be established by the election of the President of the National Council and in the defense of this amendment I will use the example that is familiar to all of us MPs here, since I see that the example of national councils is not very well known matter. So, as it is impossible to establish a National Assembly without the election of a National Assembly president, such as impossible to elect a government without a Prime Minister, it is so logical that the National Council cannot be established without the election of a National Council president. Thus, such a legal solution creates a legal environment under which they are encouraged to be divided within national communities and the question is what can the national council which is established and which has no president or executive board. So, similar legal gymnastics created a problem when establishing a previous invitation to the Bosniak National Council, so we got two national councils. One has been in the technical mandate, which has been operational for four years and the other is the national council, i.e. the Bosniak National Council, which is not recognised by the state. This encourages the continuation of similar divisions and the creation of similar problems among other national communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1694	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dr. Muamer Bacevac, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1695	Dear Members of Parliament, I have spoken a number of times affirmatively about this law, and I think this proposal and this formulation are one of the main qualities of this bill. Absolutely because of the lack of such a formula, we had a problem non-forming the Bosniak National Council. I am absolutely against the national council being identified with the president of the National Council. Each national council representative has the same rights and obligations and the president of the national council is only the first among the equal. So I think this is a great proposal, I think this is a way to avoid the problems we've had. I will read it in Decidence – the National Council is established by confirming the mandate of all members of the National Council. I think it's very logical, I think it's a condition necessary to form a national council. Once again, the National Council must not be allowed to be owned by any person, especially the president of the National Council. All the members of the national council and all the debates I had in this assembly must be strengthened, all the attitudes went that way. All members of the council must make the same or approximate contribution to the functioning of these bodies. I therefore wish to confirm that we will support this law, or vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-21-0.u1696	Thank you. People's MP Enis Imamovic called, but since you don't have time for the parliamentary group, you're not mentioned, you don't have the right to reply, so I can't give you my word. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to Article 67. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 67th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I would also like to inform you that the session will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, at points 4 to 6. Thank you.
