ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Milan Korać, Dubravka Filipovski, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Vladeta Kostic, Miodrag Nikolic, Marjana Maras, Mr Dejan Radenkovic and Dr Sulejman Ugljanin. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on proposals for legislation from the agenda according to points 2, 3, 4 and 5. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Dr Dusan Vujović, Minister of Finance, Ivan Tasovac, Minister of Culture and Information, Dr Srdjan Verbić, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Asja Drac Muntean, Assistant Minister of Culture and Information, Prof. Dr. Zoran Lužanin, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt at the Ministry of Finance and Ivan Magdić, Assistant Director of Public Debt at the Ministry of Finance. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint, uniform search of the draft laws referred to in points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda, before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170a of Article 157(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search: on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (The Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee (The Project – Transfer from analog to the Digital Signal) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See in the area of Higher Education. Do the motioners want the word: Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Ivan Tasovac and Dr Srdjan Verbic? Dr. Rasim Ljajic picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the ratification of two agreements, namely a guarantee contract that is related to the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting, and I will talk about the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement, which is related to the flood recovery project. Let me give very briefly some information relating to the Guarantee Contract Confirmation Act, which is related to the loan contract, which the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development gives to the public company "Emission Technicals", for the project of switching from analogue to digital broadcasting. It is an agreement concluded in September of this year. The value of the loan is 24m euros. The credit is taken for a period of 10 years, a grace period of two years, at an interest rate of Eurobor plus 1%. The loan will be paid in 16 wars. The first war will be paid back in 2016. As you can see, it is extremely favourable conditions for this loan, or a loan without which it was impossible to realise the digitisation project. What will be spent on this loan has been defined by the rules with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and there are several components, several of the highest items where the funds will be invested. Most of the funds are related to the acquisition of technological equipment for the digitisation process and are scheduled and planned for 16.6m euros for this item. The second largest item concerns construction works that were planned for four million and 260 thousand euros. Fortunately, all these funds will not be withdrawn for the simple reason that after the tender was called, before that prequalification procedure we had two large international companies that came forward in this tender. The tender ended on November 17th, and the commission decided to beat the company that submitted the proposal, the amount of total equipment supplies worth slightly more than 10m euros, 6.5m less than the planned funds. The other company has given about 12.5 million, a proposal to purchase technological equipment, 2.5 million more than the company that won this tender. On December 1st, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development verified the entire tender process and agreed to sign a contract with the company that won the tender. Also, all four million and 260 thousand euros will not be spent, but some 960,000 have been saved, as it has dropped out of supply, video surveillance equipment, and we believe it will not be a final figure. Finally, of these 24m euros that were the subject of the Agreement, I hope that it will be withdrawn at a maximum of 14.5m euros, so 9.5m less than what was provided for in this Agreement. The reason for this is the decline in the value of equipment, as I will remind you only that in 2012 in the Republic of Serbia's budget, 100m euros were foreseen as a guarantee for the purchase of equipment for the digitalisation process. In 2013, it fell to 75 million. In 2014, we predicted 36 million. Then we signed a 24m-euro loan agreement, and here you see, it's finally going to be probably no more than 14.5m euros. Of course, the total cost of digitisation is higher because the process has been going since 2006 -2007, it should have been completed in 2012, if there is some comfort which is not finished, it is this fact that the equipment and the value of the equipment has fallen significantly in this respect so that we will save significant resources. But it remains on the deadline of 17 June 2015 until we have to complete this whole process. Digitalisation is not a cost, digitalisation is an investment, because we expect that after the digitalisation process, when it is completed after the sale, that is, the sale of freed spectrum through the digital dividend of countries will generate revenue between 70m and 100m euros. We cannot talk about precise figures, because it is a tender and we cannot know what the value of the telecommunications market will be in the period when this tender is called, but having the experience of the countries in the region and the revenues that these countries have made, it is certainly not going to go less than 100 million, and we are potentially hoping that this could be up to 100 million euros. As far as the emergency flood recovery loan is concerned, it is a ratification of the Agreement signed in October 2014, so this year. The value of the loan is $227m and $480,000 euros or 300m. The duration of the loan, i.e. the loan is 30 years, a grace period of nine years, the interest rate is a six-month eurobor plus, a variable margin currently at 0.8%. The loan will be paid into 42 wars, and the first war will be paid off on November 1st, 2023. Also, the assets of this loan will be used on four basic components, i.e. those affected by the most elemental disasters, i.e. the May floods this year. The largest amount of funds will go to assist the sector and energy and mining of 157.1m euros. Then, to help the agriculture sector, 53.1m euros, it is mainly about helping farmers in the area of agriculture. The third paragraph of this loan will help to improve flood protection infrastructures of 16.7m euros and a fourth item that is not located, the precise funds relate to the reserve in case of new and elementary disasters, which is agreed with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, there are no intended funds, but the possibility of allocating funds in the event of new elemental disasters has been left. The condition that these funds would be withdrawn is the ratification of this Agreement in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15102	Thank you. The word is Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15103	Thank you, President. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about the draft law confirming the European Convention on the Protection of Audio Visual Heritage. The law is passed to confirm the European Convention on the Protection of Audio Visual Heritage, adopted by the Council of Europe in Strasbourg on 8 November 2001. Confirmation of the Convention is of special and strategic importance for the field of culture, as it regulates and defines key issues from the domain of protection of audio visual policy as an important segment of the preservation of cultural identity. The aim of the Convention is to ensure the protection of the European audio of visual heritage, hence both Serbian and its respect not only as a form of art, but also as a record of history through the collection of protection and preservation, but also through the availability of this material. This Convention provides for the appointment of an archival body that will deposit materials of moving images, it will be the Yugoslav Cinematheque, which already has that obligation in our legal system. The Yugoslav Cinematheque was founded in 1949 as a central Yugoslav film archive. It includes a film archive, a film museum with a library and a follow-up cinema. The archive owns one of the most significant film collections in this part of Europe, which contains over 95,000 titles on the film tape of different national cinemas, all genres and formats, from silent to tone, from black to color copies, on nitrated, acetate and polyester strips, as well as a copy in digital format. The Yugoslav Cinematheque is making special efforts to follow the standards and state-of-the-art technologies used to preserve film and digital materials and is one of the most successful institutions of the Ministry of Culture and Information. This Convention closes the cycle of compliance with the standards of the Council of Europe in the fields of culture and art. By ratifying this convention, our film archive and our film heritage become a formal part of a great European family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15104	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Thank you. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? In the words of Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go. As a committee reporter, I apologize. The word has Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15105	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, respected presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about a bill confirming the European Convention on the Protection of Audio Visual Heritage. The law is passed to confirm the European Convention on the Protection of Audio Visual Heritage, which adopted the Council of Europe in Strasbourg on 8 November 2001. The ratification of the Convention is a very important segment in order to achieve successful harmonisation of national legislation with EU legislation in the field of audio visual policy which primarily achieves the protection of national audio visual heritage, as a particularly important aspect of art that testifies to our history. Achieving in a professional and professional manner the preservation and availability of an extremely rich cinematographic fund, the Yugoslav Cinematheque as a key national institution, the keeper of our cinematographic and audio visual treasure, in addition to the professional work so far and the reputation achieved in the circles of European archives, the ratification of this Convention gets legitimacy and becomes a reference institution in the European Community's archives network, which represents an extremely successful step along the way of the euro integration of the Republic of Serbia in the field of audio visual policy and preservation of audio visual heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15106	Thank you. Is there anyone else on the board of directors answering for a word? (No) Presidents or representatives of parliamentary groups? The word has Siniša Maksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15107	Respected National Assembly presidents, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, in the framework of this joint search covering four laws on the approval of agreements, agreements and conventions, I will first and foremost discuss the draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for an emergency flood recovery project. As is known, Serbia was hit by catastrophic floods in May this year, causing inconspicuous damage. First of all, there were human casualties, but there was also damage to the energy sector, agriculture, infrastructure. They have resulted in a significant deterioration in Serbia's economy and a greater decline in GDP. The total flood damage was estimated at as much as 1.7 billion euros, which we must acknowledge is a severe blow to our country's economy. Out of this amount, 885m euros is damage to destroyed material goods in 24 municipalities most affected by floods. The floods caused damages of 2.7% of gross social product, as well as losses of 2% of gross social product. The damage to the energy and mining sectors is estimated to be 488m euros. Over 90% of the damage was caused by carbon and thermoelectrics. The damage imposes on the Public Enterprise Elektroprivreda Srbija and the Kolubara Mining Pool, Velika Crnjeni and the Tamnava-West Field, which produce about two-thirds of the production of coal in Serbia, is completely immersed. Especially complicated and expensive will be the drying and recovery of the coal mine "The Tamnava-West Field", where a lake of 15 square kilometers of surface area is formed due to the abundant rainfall with an average depth of about 14 meters. The agriculture sector has also suffered huge losses. The damage of 220m euros was estimated. About 80,000 hectares of farmland have been submerged and about 33,000 small and medium-sized agricultural households have been affected by these floods. In order for our agriculture to recover from this disaster, it will take at least three to five years for agricultural production and agricultural infrastructure to return to flood levels. Floods have also damaged large parts of the infrastructure that are used to protect against floods, and the entire parts of the dams are destroyed or partially damaged. The cost of repairing the existing flood protection infrastructure is estimated to be 24m euros. We understand that the reason for the realization of this loan is the lack of domestic resources due to a drastic reduction in gross social product, whose cause, above all, is flood damage. The objective of the realization of this loan is to quickly recover from disaster, prevent further threats and stop the negative effects of floods on the already relatively weakened economy. The funds of this loan will be used to finance emergency flood recovery projects that our government has created with the bank. It is about the need for immediate recovery of damage, first of all, in electricity, agriculture and infrastructure, which could not be recovered by domestic means or donations. It's big systems and huge damage. We're estimated to be short of funds to repair the damage at the height of 1. 345,000 euros. On the other hand, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is ready to approve a 227.000,000-euro loan for the implementation of an emergency flood recovery project. Floods have also damaged large parts of the infrastructure that are used to protect against floods, and it is very important that this infrastructure is restored as soon as possible and thus to warn possible some upcoming floods. The Bank approves of this type of credit in cases where the borrower's economy is significantly shaken by extraordinary circumstances, such as, among other things, natural disasters. The project to be financed from this loan consists of four components. The first components are aid to the energy sector; the second aid is to import electricity; the third is an emergency rebuilding of the distribution network, pumping water from the coal mine and not reading to you how much money this needs. The second component covers assistance to the government's existing programme for the distribution of incentives in agriculture and rural development of 53,000,000 euros, in order to protect the funds for the lives of flood-affected farmers and compensate for their loss of income. The third component includes assistance for the reconstruction of priority flood protection infrastructure. The project component covers two sub-components, investing in flood protection of up to 14,000,000 euros. It is a reconstruction and reconstruction of priority infrastructure for flood protection. Help with project documentation. The fourth component implies a reserve for new elemental accidents where there is currently no funds. Therefore, in the case of serious natural disasters and disasters caused by human activities, the Government may request funds from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for this component. The loan stipulates that the bank approves a 30-year loan with a grace period of nine years, a favourable interest rate and a return to 42 consecutive semi-annual wars, starting on 1 November 2023. The SPS MPs will vote in favour of this agreement and a set of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15108	The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15109	Dear Ministers, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are facing a joint single search of four draft laws. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all four proposed laws, but my presentation will focus on two loan agreements. First of all, I will talk about the draft law establishing the Loan Agreement, the Emergency Flood Recovery Project between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I will also say for this agreement that in the voting day we will certainly support this bill, because its objective is to recover quickly from disaster, prevent further threats and stop the negative consequences of the floods we had in the previous period. Serbia will allocate $300,000 to the bill. Money from the loan by segments will be invested to pump water from the Kolubara dig and repair equipment in Serbia's electricity system, as well as to support electricity imports so that households and industries have enough electricity in the coming winter period. On the other hand, it should be said that funds in co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture will also be supported by flood-affected agricultural households, and part of the money will be used to protect Serbia from floods in the long term. Otherwise, it should be said that the total damage to this natural disaster is 1.7 billion euros. The amount of destroyed material goods in 24 municipalities is about 875,000 euros. It should be said that heavy rains and devastating floods have had devastating consequences for Serbia's energy sector as well. In particular, energy and mining production have been significantly disrupted, and the damage caused by the Public Enterprise "Electro-priority of Serbia" is particularly serious. Some estimates are that the damage caused by the energy sectors, mining is slightly less than 500,000 euros. More than 90% is caused by coal mining and electricity production sectors, followed by the electricity supply sector. Practically two coal mines at the Kolubara Mining Baseline, "The Great Blacks" and "The Tamnava-West Field", which give about two-thirds of the coal in Serbia, were completely immersed. Here, it is said that 30.7 million tonnes of coal were produced in 2013 on all four collages. The copy of the Tamnava-West Polje is the most significant copy of the Kolubare Mining Baseline, which before the May floods produced the annual half of the total production in Kolubara, of some 15,000,000 tonnes per year. In May's floods, nine buffers were flooded on Kopa "Tamnava-West Polje" and the water depth was up to 70 metres. The site created an artificial lake in a total volume of 15 km square. After the flood wave, 187mm of cubic water was poured into the spear, and so far it has been pumped about half of the reach of water and has been reduced by about 15m. It is also an important segment that the EPS has taken all environmental protection measures and every day checks the quality of water that is pumped from the flooded spear. Here it is said that 15 different species of fish have been found in that artificial lake. I'm going back to the second segment. The agriculture sector has also been significantly affected. A realistic decline in agricultural production was estimated by as much as 5.9%. The damage and loss in the agriculture sector are estimated to be around 230m euros. Practically, this means that about 80,000 hectares of agricultural land are flooded, and about 33,000 small and medium households are affected by the flood. Of course, support for this sector will be needed over the next three to five years in order for agricultural production to return to flood levels. It should also be said that floods have damaged large infrastructures that serve to protect against floods. The cost of repairing these flood protection infrastructure facilities is 24m euros. As a result of such a situation, it should be said that water supply in many places has been cut off, and businesses in the sector have higher costs of cleaning water for drinking, bringing it to consumers, while at the same time having reduced revenues. Now, returning to the agreement or loan itself, it should be said that this loan to the World Bank of, I just said, 300 million dollars or, 227.5 million euros is intended for flood recovery and has a 30-year maturity with a grace period of nine years and interest is slightly less than 1%. The Republic of Serbia will return the loan to 42 consecutive annual wars, every 1 May and 1 November, starting on 1 November 2023. Otherwise, speaking of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it should be said that it has a capital of slightly less than 250 billion dollars, and the IMF member states can be members of the bank. Former Yugoslavia received about 90 loans from 1961 to 1991. Returning to the agreement, it should be said that the agreement has four components that include assistance for the energy sector, mining, aid for the agriculture sector, assistance for improving flood protection infrastructure and reserves for new elemental disasters. Speaking of these components, the first component is aid to the energy sector with 157.1m euros and covers three sub-components. The first aid for electricity imports is from 119.8m euros, an emergency reconstruction of the distribution network with 14.3m euros and a water pump, I said earlier, with the carbon mine Tamnava, the Western Field, which I was already talking about, with 23m euros. The second component covers assistance to the government's existing programme for the distribution of incentives in agriculture and rural development and amounts to 53.1m euros. The third component includes aid for the reconstruction of economic infrastructure for flood protection and disposal, as well as strengthening the technical capacities of state authorities responsible for improving the 16.7m-euro flood prevention and management system. Lastly, the fourth component of the Emergency Flood Recovery Project implies a reserve for new elemental disasters, which currently lacks funds. As far as this law is concerned, I will say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the Voting Day will certainly support this bill. As regards the second loan, it should be said for the loan to confirm the Guarantee Treaty, the project shifts from analogue to the digital signal between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was signed in September 2014. The loan is worth 24m euros and is intended for the implementation of the project from analogue to digital signal, provided that the Republic of Serbia guarantees the commitments of the JP "Emission technique". The digitisation of land television needs to be carried out for the sake of technological progress and development of the Republic of Serbia, coordination with countries in the region and the EU, and in line with the strategy for switching from analogue to digital signalling of radio and television signals. Certainly, the project will also require the procurement of certain goods, works and services, to allow coverage of 90% of the population of the Republic of Serbia. The contract provides for the bank to grant a 24m-dollar loan to the borrower and the duration period to be 10 years, and the grace period is two years. At the very end, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support both these two bill proposals that I have talked about and the other draft laws in this joint single search.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15110	Thank you. I don't have anyone in the system right now. Please respond. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15111	Thank you. Gentlemen Ministers, the SPO-DHSS will vote in favour of all proposed certificates, agreements and conventions, because we think they are all of an interest to our citizens. What certainly causes great attention is the flood recovery project that hit our country in May this year and which so far have been in its scope and the consequences of the biggest flood we have had in our area, it is an agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. At first, I want to say something that, I think, is a bad prejudice in our public often, as regards both the World Bank and the European Bank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the IMF, because often from our citizens, because of the political messages they receive, they are interpreted as financial institutions that somehow hold the Republic of Serbia in some form of debt slavery or something in that sense. Of course it's not like that. I think that the argument that Mr Ljajic has also made and that I will mention very well that this kind of prejudice is broken and that it is proved that by working with these important financial institutions, the Republic of Serbia is leading a serious and responsible policy in the interests of its citizens. The flood recovery project was done in agreement with the European Commission, the UN, the World Bank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. What's the big deal? It's important every time you take money to know, firstly, how much money you take, when you return, under what conditions and what are interest rates. We'll get about 300 million dollars for a flood recovery under extremely favourable conditions. Grace's period, or the time when we won't pay off, is nine years. The duration of the loan is 30 years. The interest rate is only 0.8%. The bank's fee is 0.25% of the amount of the loan, the undrawn amount is 0.25% a year, and the repayment of the loan after nine years, we start to repay this loan, is in 42 consecutive monthly wars, which is really extremely favourable. I am not saying this to glorify international financial institutions and organisations, but to try to bring this kind of often negative prejudice, without any basis, that exists for these financial organisations, to make my contribution that these types of prejudices and delusions are broken down and to send a clear message to our citizens that when the state makes such a move, it is doing something that is in the best interest of its citizens. What is also really important is that these funds will be spent on the most important segments that have been threatened by floods, from the carbon of Tamnava, from agriculture, from the energy sector, from the recovery of buildings. I think that even without this kind of help, it would be really hard for us to completely solve all the consequences of the flood ourselves. What's certainly a fact, if we look at both our drains and the wells and all technical means of protection and from future floods, is that we as a country are not due to decades of less investment than needed to protect against floods, we have not reached the level of the most developed countries that have done it in the best way, such as Germany or the Netherlands, and indeed, if there are many rainfalls again, they occur every few years, perhaps again, unfortunately, we will have floods. That's why this kind of security, that you can withdraw from these financial organizations, precisely because of natural disasters, is a very important asset. As for confirming the agreement on the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is about moving from analogue to digital signal, it is of great interest to citizens. What citizens are interested in is what deadlines are, is until June next year, and what citizens should do about them, what equipment to obtain, and how much will it cost? What I have succeeded, as a folk MP, is to come up with this kind of data that simply citizens of JP “Emission of techniques and connections” will receive devices in time, so-called “Emission of techniques and connections”. The risiver and will be able to obtain digital antennas as well. It'll all cost somewhere between 4,000 and 5,000 dinars, but the quality of the received television signal will be incomparably better than the current signal. What's good is that, regardless of how much more money was planned to be invested in this project, about 24m euros, we're going to invest about nine and a half million euros. As regards the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Audio-visual Heritage, we will also support the validation of this Convention. There's something left that's a really vague question, and that's where I first address Mr. Tasovac. It's not just your responsibility, it's your predecessor's responsibility. This convention was adopted by the Council of Europe in Strasbourg on 8 November 2001. So 13 years ago. We cannot boast of some urgent reaction in this regard, especially since we have looked at a number of our cultural institutions, which are in charge of preserving this form of cultural heritage, that depositors are, above all, audio-visual heritage, in a pretty bad state. Of course, the state is taking steps in this area, but it seems to me that by adopting this convention, it is likely that it will pay much more attention to something that if you lose once you lose, you can no longer recover. This is really about real wealth, as far as our film industry is concerned, and we are one of the countries that can be praised for the extraordinary achievements in these areas and that we have truly exceptional creators who are recognised not only within our country and on the international stage. Even among the MPs, we have indeed one young director, but who has already entered the annals of our film industry, Mr. Srdjan Dragojevic, who has been celebrated as an exceptional film maker, director and screenwriter. It is my pleasure to say that one of the representatives of cultural followers in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is also Mr Dragojevic. On the other hand, Minister, that's something I think you should initiate. It states that the Yugoslav Cinematheque will be in charge of carrying out these actions. Yugoslavia is long gone. I think it's time for it to be renamed a Serbian cinema and we're not in charge of keeping something that others have destroyed. Yugoslavia had its full purpose and purpose at some point, but unfortunately it fell apart in bloody wars and the only one in Europe since 1945, but that's another topic. What is the European heritage of European countries is to preserve the cultural identity and diversity of its peoples. It is precisely one of the premises of cultural foundations on which the EU rests. Also, the material of moving images, as a form of cultural expression that reflects modern society, is an excellent way to record everyday events, the foundation of our history and the reflection of our civilization. It is important to note that, with this convention, or its confirmation, the obligation of the state to preserve not only cinematographic works, but also television productions, and as regards television productions, Serbia has indeed had something to praise, because we belong to the order of countries that are particularly, in the period of the 1970s and 80s, have an exceptional TV production and very much. What I wanted to say, taking advantage of the presence of the Minister of Culture, is that we will have a debate at this session on a candidate from the media field of experts who are applying for the RTS Programme Council. That is the decision of the Committee on Culture and Information. You attended the meeting of that committee and I think the decision of this kind is very good, that someone who will be on the RTS Programme Council should also be an expert in the field of media. What makes me say that? Because when we were talking about a set of media laws, I was one of the proponents who asked for a condition, that someone would buy a certain medium, that it should be someone who dealt with the media, that's from the media space, because they were very bad media privatisation experiences, that were literally bought as potatoes at the market by people who had no experience working with the media most often, or an idea of what they would do with buying these media. It's been a few months since we passed those laws and I don't see that there's been any good privatisation, and above all I'm thinking about local media. The privatisation deadline is June next year. I wish I were wrong when I pointed out that continuing this way of privatising the media would lead to the asphyxiation of local media, both electronic, radio institutions and printed media. What I also wanted to say to Mr. Tasovac is that we, respecting your extraordinary expertise in the area you're working on, welcomed your appointment as a culture minister with great optimism, and it seems to me, and the profession, but in the meantime, there has been some discrepancies between you and the profession, so it seems to me that it is time to work seriously on long-term planning, first of all, as regards the adoption of a national culture strategy...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15112	Ambassador, you know you missed the whole subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15113	I'm done. I think it's a good time...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15114	We're talking about confirming the Guarantee Treaty, not the strategy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15115	As for the Treaty of Cooperation with the Holy See, we expected Minister Verbic to tell us a few words about it, but we will vote in favour of this kind of agreement, but what remains unclear – is this agreement a two-sided obligation, or is it possible for such a type of higher education institution to be established in the territory of the Holy See? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15116	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15117	Thank you, President. I'm going to answer that little part of your exposure, which was about today's subject. It seems to me that you have mixed up the deposits that are related to the preservation of the audio-visual heritage with the general state in the deposits in Serbia. As for deposits for audio-visual heritage, since 2000, the Yugoslav Cinematheque has managed to rebuild all existing film deposits with the help of the Republic of Serbia, as well as foreign donations. Also, a renovated building on Uzun Mirko Street, which has its museum location, library and several projection halls, represents a temple of film. That's one thing. The second thing, I can't exactly quote you, but you said that, as far as the name of the Yugoslav Cinematheque is concerned, it should be called the Serbian cinematheque, and that the Serbian cinema is not obliged to store the materials of those who destroyed us. Not going into dialogue with you about it, I have to tell you that whatever it is you said was called the cinema is required to store materials and, among other things, the spirit of this convention that I hope parliament will adopt. If you think so, think again about voting for this convention on the protection of audiovisual heritage.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15118	Mirko Chikiriz. Use the time left of the boss...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15119	Thank you very much. Very short. Mr. Minister, far from saying we shouldn't keep cultural heritage away from it. I was just talking about this richness of the diversity of Europe that preserves cultural heritage regardless of which sides they come from and that it is one of the cultural foundations on which the European Union rests. I was just saying, since in reason I had a term – the Yugoslav Cinematheque, that you should initiate, if it is still in use, to rename it as a Serbian cinematheque, which in my opinion is completely understandable and acceptable and I don't think anyone would mind. As far as the depots are concerned, of course I'm informed in that part. I agree with what you've said, but this very convention is being adopted and confirmed for that audio-visual heritage, which we haven't properly protected and placed in the proper depots, we do. I think we understand each other completely now, that no one has messed up the pots, neither you nor I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15120	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15121	I'm glad you explained what you were thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15122	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15123	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today we have a proposal of four agreements that are quite diverse at first sight, but when you look at their importance and weight, you see practically that this government is really responsible for doing its job and each of the resistors is equally dealing with the difficulties that Serbia is simply facing in the first place. The first draft law to confirm the agreement, I think is one of the most important ones, is on the loan of an emergency flood recovery project between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We have heard a lot in the previous period in general about floods, the damages and losses that Serbia has suffered, but what is important to say is that this agreement was signed in Washington on 9 October for a project to approve 300 million dollars, or recalculated into Euros 227.480,000. What has been done so far in terms of flood recovery is that from 10 June to 10 July 2014 an estimate has been made in collaboration with the European Commission and the United Nations and the World Bank on the extent of the damage, i.e. the amount of funds needed to resolve the damage. At that point, it was very important to react effectively and choose an adequate methodology that would be recognised by global financial organisations to really get some funds, which in one way, donations of a solidarity fund, which through certain credit lines, is one of these. But it should not be forgotten, especially because of the citizens of Serbia and say that the total damage was estimated at 1.7 billion euros, that of which 885,000 went to material goods, that 488,000,000 euros went to energy, 24,000,000 to infrastructure, and that the biggest problem essentially with energy was that 90% of this damage suffered a practical coal-related area, and 10% of the part relating to the purchase and recovery of the network, i.e. the purchase of electricity. Agriculture has suffered huge damages of 228,000,000 euros and what is very important, which is to say that the decline in agricultural production has been recorded by 5.9% and that it will certainly be reflected in 20% of gross social income, while energy is reflecting 60% in this decline. So what will prove safe in the ultimate economic balance is that we will have an increase in the deficit of 1% of gross social income precisely because of the flood. What is important is to say that this loan has four components, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we as MPs have given the guarantee by adopting budget rebalances. The four components to be provided by this loan, i.e. the loan, are primarily energy-related components worth 157.1m euros, i.e. imports of electricity of 119.8m euros, the distribution network of 14.3m euros, and we have seen that it is very difficult to manage in emergency situations at all, especially when the power grid is concerned. The best example is, in fact, now Majdanpek, that simply some things you can't predict, and even not in the course of the recovery itself, such as the inaccessibility of the terrain, the inaccessibility of the network and climate change. The third part of this energy-related component is 23,000,000 euros. Water pump financing services from the Tamnava and Kolubara fields have practically suffered the greatest damage as one of the companies in the energy sector. Here, practically and in the explanation it is stated. It took an area of 15 kilometers [15 km] square in the depths of 14 meters [14 m] to resuscitate and pump water. There's a competition in place. According to me, Elektroprivreda Srbija has awarded the job. Foreign companies that are exclusively specialised in this kind of work have also come to help, and this is vital to Serbia because without coal, we cannot practically produce electricity from our capacities. The second component relating to the loan is incentives for agriculture, which practically the Serbian government is unable to give because of the damage it suffered, but are worth 53.1m euros. The third component refers to the infrastructure. It carries 16.7m euros. This part of the funding that is now approved by this loan should protect practically from floods, i.e. to enable the state to build new walls, new deforestation systems, irrigation, or as well as to do specific project documentation, so that at any moment you know what you've been doing, how much you've fallen apart in certain areas. For flood protection in the investment executive part, the loan will be spent at 14.5m euros, and for designing and technical support alone, 2.2m euros. As far as the fourth component is concerned, it's not exactly defined, but it's securitys in case of elemental accidents. The Serbian government has realised that many things about climate change and emergency management cannot plan, especially when it comes to finance. That's why you need to have the support of certain international organisations, which, at any time, for God's sakes, you will be able to pull certain lines that will go towards urgent problem-solving. Now that we're talking about this loan at all, it should say that the terms of the loans that are granted really correspond to this situation and the current one, as far as our public finances are concerned, is that this loan will be paid off for 30 years with a grace period of nine years. This means that the first war will be on November 1st, 2023, that the interest rate will cover the eurobond six months with an increase of 0.8% and that the wars, which will be paid back, will go consecutively 42 wars only since 2023. The budget of Serbia, as I said, has, through its rebalancing that we have recently adopted here, given a guarantee of that 300 million dollars, therefore, it is one of the conditions that the loan could be granted at all. The next agreement, i.e. the next law confirming the Guarantee Treaty, also, by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is the project of switching from analogue to digital signal, and we had a lot to do in the assembly debate, especially when we adopted certain amendments and amendments to the law, because they were a condition that we could practically move to the part relating to the modernisation of the system itself, to the purchase of equipment and construction works that should be carried out in order to meet their obligations in this area. We heard from Minister Ljajic that many jobs in this area have already been practically started, that a lot has been done through public competitions, that a lot of money has been done in terms of savings in financing such projects, which does not mean that it will not be spent in an adequate way for the second part of the business, but it is very important to say that this agreement was signed on 19 September 2014 and that loan is the amount of 24m euros. Of course, one of the main holders of this job will be the public company "Emission of Techniques and Connections" and that the terms of this loan are actually 10 years, and that two years you have a grace period, practically a period when you don't pay off the wars, with an interest rate of eurobore that will be increased by 1%. What obliges us to do this job is all possible international acts that are related to both regional conferences in Geneva and the rules on proper distribution of frequencies and to the part relating to the feasibility study in this area, but we are obliged by the European Commission's report on Serbia's progress, in which we put it ourselves to be a deadline of 17 June 2015, so we need the funds needed for equipment, networks, construction works are essential. The third and fourth draft agreement at today's session concerns the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education. One is about confirming the European Convention on the Protection of Audio-Visual Heritage, and about this we have had the opportunity to hear from our colleagues, and also from the Minister how essential it is to protect our cultural heritage and, what is important, to think besides this, accidentally forgotten, to say that these funds and protect certain copyrights and the availability of these heritage, as well as the protection itself. It is important to say that this agreement has fundamental strategic significance and has no cost per Serbia's budget. Finally, we have a bill to confirm the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See in the area of higher education. This agreement is, in fact, the implementation of a bilateral co-operation, the adoption of standards relating to qualifications from higher education in European religion, i.e., in particular, this represents the need for a Catholic church to educate its staff, i.e. for its needs, as well as diplomas and knowledge that will come within it. This showed Serbia is really ready to co-operate with both the east and the west and the north and the south, and that there is simply no problem at all that its bilateral co-operation with anyone is denying. I don't think there are a lot of people in today's debate who are going to oppose these agreements for the simple reason that this kind of agreement can only bring good to the citizens of Serbia, to bring modernisation of Serbia, each in its work, and to protect what is really the essence of our culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15124	Thank you. Does any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups, or authorised representatives, want a word? (No) We are moving on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15125	We have four agreements that once again make up an unusual group of laws, they don't have much to do with it, but to accept it as a wish to rationalise the time for debates. Two topics of these four are particularly interesting to me. This is a flood recovery loan and this part of this agreement on a digitisation loan, i.e. a switch from analogue to digital system or broadcasting. There is a large amount of 240m euros and some million euros, and the flood damage is even greater, and these are two facts that we all know and I don't think there's any dispute about it. Is it necessary to take credit for the recovery of flood damage? Yes, our potential is not such that we can handle it ourselves. Are the terms of the loan good? Yes, they are, those half percent a year is something four times more favourable than something that's almost been presented here as the most favourable loans in mankind's history, and that's this loan for the Middle East. So there are no objections from the New Party MPs on that side. As the predecessors said in the estimates of the effects of the flood, I don't think it's enough to say about what caused the flood. On today, has it been six months and more than a flood, do we know if there's any blame for what happened? Floods are not God's punishment, if so, then it would be a cause for even greater concern, but I assure you that floods are not God's punishment or devil's work, but that most of the consequences of floods are the issue of system failure. Of course, current authority is always responsible for system failures. I do not think that this has been established in a valid manner either in institutions outside this House or in this Parliament. I asked the Home Secretary if there was any kind of investigation...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15126	Mr. Zivkovic, I think we discussed this at one of the meetings of the Assembly and had a topic on the agenda, the government report on elementary disasters, so please return to the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15127	I'm going back on the subject because it's a matter of money. We're now taking credit to burden our grandchildren and I think it's very important to come up with a reason why we have to take credit, so it's a direct link. Whoever doesn't realize it, he's got some evil intentions. Therefore, parts of the funds should go for the recovery of damage in the energy sector. We were all witnesses here when we were persuaded by some government representatives that an EPS and TENT insurance agreement was signed. Why is it mentioned here now that part of these funds will go to solve these damages, if there is an insurance agreement? It's obvious that there isn't, and that's someone's failure, and that's why in the next 30 years, the next generation that's going to live in these areas will have to pay, through the budget, and the budget full of citizens, stupidity and poor work of some people whose job was to protect the state from floods. Obviously, it was possible to do this, we have an example of the Whisper, we have an example of the Happy Side, but in Obrenovac it didn't happen, and it has to be given the right answer. Digitalisation, we take a 24m-euro loan, under far more unfavourable conditions than this one is, for something that is largely under the question of whether it is the job of the state. I think it's the job of the broadcaster and the provider to invest in the infrastructure that brings them profits. That means, that 24 million, when you look at it, it's only a few times more than it's one private tax television, let alone some others. Therefore, this was to be financed by the Public Service and other televisions that received the national frequency, along with those with regional ones. In fact, 24 million is a very small amount of money for one such big thing that will also allow citizens to better accept the programme, but will also increase the revenues of broadcasters and providers. So I think it's a completely wrong thing in two steps -- first, because it doesn't have to be financed by the state and second, because it doesn't need to be taken on such an unfavourable loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15128	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15129	Everywhere in the world, the state had an obligation to create a basis for the digitalisation process, to develop infrastructure, and in the end, this is also an international obligation that Serbia must fulfil by June. What is your observation is about the fact that the state will benefit not only through digital dividends, but what the technology will now charge for, I hope that it will actually charge rather than formally, as we now have a situation for many broadcasters to owe to broadcasting technology, but will now be obliged to pay for the service that the state public company provides to broadcasters. So this is really a two-way investment. First, which will free up that part of the spectrum that will now be sold to mobile operators, I have already said, we expect a minimum of 70 and a maximum of 100m euros, and secondly, what the technology will now charge to broadcasters and they will be obliged to pay for the services that the emission technique provides them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15130	Thank you. On what basis, Mr. Zivkovic? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Just an explanation, the minister did not understand me well. He didn't get you all right? All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15131	I don't doubt the government's obligation to take care of this area. My disagreement is about funding it. Of course the state needs to provide a legal basis and of course it needs to organize the whole business. But funding could have been from these broadcasters, which are still due today, so they could be charged for what they owe and made an advance payment contract with them. And it could have been solved, because 24 million is not the money that is too big for this country, and especially for people who boast that they are the media king's empire. Therefore, I respect your desire for the state to settle it and that's good, but I think the source of funding is on the wrong side.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15132	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Dragojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15133	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers, MPs and MPs, this Convention signed in Strasbourg in 2001 is an important document expressing concern for the preservation and protection of Europe's audiovisual heritage. The moving images, the first film, and then from the second half of the 20th century and television, marked the whole century and represent perhaps the most important, and certainly the dominant art of the century that is behind us, and through the new forms of recording and transmission mark these first decades of the 21st century. It is unnecessary to say that they record and preserve the spirit of the epoch, history, values, cultural and other patterns, and above all language. This Convention on Audio-Visual Heritage treats in the widest form and this is a relatively new area for us, with which we have yet to reciprocate, as is the term – audiovisual activity that you may have noticed has been causing some confusion lately. As a result, it does not have to be surprising to explain what the proposal offers and which it says: "As measures of technical protection of film buildings, means of film restoration and preservation are implemented in the Republic of Serbia's budget every year, as part of its programming activities, Yugoslav Cinematheque. Therefore, the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. “ This would be undeniable and true if this Convention meant the protection of only cinematographic material preserved on film tape, restoration and digitisation of the most important films, our and world history, and what it has been doing for years "Kinotheka", headed by Mr. Zelenović. It would be true if it also meant "Film News" which in recent years began the process of censusing and digitising thousands of hours of journal "Film News", under Mr. Tomcic's leadership, and these journals were in great danger of collapse for two decades. But "Cinotheque" and "Film News" are only important segments of everything that implies audiovisual heritage in its complexity. These are important, but only a small part of the audiovisual heritage. I need to draw attention to that. Because, as the Convention makes it clear, it's about moving image material, any set of moving images recorded by any means or any media. So this is not just about movies and movie journals, it's about any television form, series, reporting, travelogue, TV video, music show, in the decades-long history of "Tv Belgrade", now "Serbia Radio-Television". It is about the two-decade history of private TV broadcasters, both national and regional and local. This is about restoration, archiving, digitisation and availability to the professional and general public of all moving images that make up our history and culture of the 20th century. Here are the material that we are now talking about, which this Convention means, both "Neven" and "Poletac" and "Political little hamsters" and "Dougled" and "Friday in 22", the video of "Belgrade Spring", BITEF's footage, the series "Caminations", the recordings of Belgrade Philharmonics, but much more than that. In order to understand the complexity of this agreement, I will set an example of the institution that performs these tasks in France. It's about "INI", the French National Institute for the Protection of Audiovisual Material. This institute already owns 750 thousand hours of an archived and digitized programme. This institute owns all the footage of all the French television programs since their founding, digitized and stored. But as we discuss now, this institute records all the programmes and national and regional TV stations in France. The present generations have a huge archive of entire audiovisual cultural heritage, and future generations away from this present generation will have a clear idea of their ancestors, our contemporaries. This unbreakable link between the past, the present and the future is based on the essence of the Convention on the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, which represents the protection of the culture, history and identity of a nation. We can say – well, the French are rich, pedantic, extremely fond of themselves, love their language, their culture. We are, you'll admit, quite different from them, and especially from the example that we do not prove that we love our culture and our language. More than two years ago, Mr. Simjanović, our famous composer, is with a group of film and television creators, to practice perhaps new concepts, audiovisual creators launched in the Ministry of Culture initiative on mediatheque formation. The Mediterranean would be something like the French National Institute for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage. Unfortunately, after a short time, this initiative was suspended. The Mediatheque project is located in the Ministry of Culture, and I would, and I believe all cultural and scientific workers, be grateful that it is restored, because the huge cultural treasure owned by Belgrade Radio-Television, the Serbian Radio-Television, is waiting to be archived and digitised, what remains after the 1999 criminal bombing. The universal privatisation of regional media, which is ahead, will put us at risk that all preserved material that these TV stations have recorded will be rejected and destroyed for decades. The Mediterranean would contain an important document on life in our country, during the previous two decades that deserves to be preserved for future generations, with all the positive and negative aspects from which future generations could learn some lessons. That is the essence of this convention that we are now considering. It's not just the Cinematheque, it's not just the digitisation of the film on the film tape, it's a very wide area that involves all image carriers, recorded, on both film and video, which has far more than just Cinematheque and Film News. Digitally organized material enables incredible opportunities in scientific research and educational professions. We're just facing digital technology, and we still don't have some benefits of digitization clear. By selecting one name or concept, it will become available in a very short time, anything about a historical notion or a person ever recorded, via video. In the end, I will give a useful example that testifies to our approach to the protection of audio visual heritage. Three decades ago, Duke Elington had a concert in Belgrade that recorded Belgrade Television. After the tour ended, they asked Duke Elington who was his best performer during the tour, and he said the Belgrade-based one. All of the world's TVs were racing to buy a recording of Duke Elington's concert in Belgrade, and unfortunately, Belgrade's TV gave them the answer that they needed tapes for other shows and that the concert had been erased. That is exactly the example of how we treat our heritage and how this Convention can move us to keep everything that has ever been recorded, recorded, which is worth it, which will remain some data bank for future generations. I would not be in a problem to fund this, because I believe that there are a lot of smart and valuable people in the Ministry of Culture, professional ones, who would be interested in looking a little wider at things, doing something like the French National Institute for the Protection of Audio Visual Material, because that is the essence of this Convention. It could be suggested to allocate a certain amount of money from Ratel and RRA, to feed and digitise all the visual material available. In any case, this is an extremely important convention, it draws attention to extremely important things, and in voting day, the SPS will fully support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15134	The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15135	I thank Parliamentarian Dragojevic for opening up, in fact, what are all the perspectives ahead that are waiting for us, because right now, at the first step, we are dealing with cinematography. However, Article 3 provides that after this protocol that will be done, the whole story will be extended to the media, and I will take advantage of this opportunity, since not so often speaking on the topic of culture in parliament, to say digitisation in general is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Culture in all areas and concerns absolutely complete and immovable cultural heritage, as well as language. In this sense, Serbia has joined as the founder together with France and it is good that you mentioned them, because they are a good example of Germany and other countries, and in DARIA, it is at this time a top European organisation that deals with the making of digital infrastructure related to language. We have a huge road ahead of us to simply catch a step in digitisation with the best examples of European practice, but I think we have already taken a few small steps in this regard. The very fact that no such document has been adopted since 2001, where it's being adopted today, I think it can give us full optimism about what's coming to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15136	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsic, respected ministers and respected guests, from one or more ministries, Mr Zoran Zivkovic has already announced the New Party's position on the proposal for a loan agreement on emergency flood recovery, and then on the proposal for a guarantee law on switching from analogue to digital signal, and Mr Zivkovic also announced what our position on the proposal for a law on the approval of the European Convention on the Protection of Audio Visual Heritage. It is my intention to declare here one of my visions of the bill, which confirms the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See, in the area of higher education. Dear Mr Arsic, in this letter from the government, it reads that a representative of the Government in the National Assembly is designated Mr Srdjan Verbic for the debate on the bill to confirm the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See. Mr. Srdjan Verbic is not in this room, Your Honor, Mr. Arsic. I have one comment on this text of the bill, and I don't know now how to conduct a dialogue in this Assembly when Mr. Verbic is not here and I ask you to suggest, how do we get out of this situation, or maybe Mr. Tasovac can perform instead of Mr. Verbic, and if Mr. Tasovac isn't interested, since we had a discussion on the board about freedom of the media, I saw then that Mr. Tasovac wasn't interested in some dialogue, then perhaps Mr. Ljajic will instead of both, and perhaps Mr. Ljajic won't, so what should we do then, Mr. Arsic? Please don't make this count to me, because there's no Mr. Verbic here, that I have five minutes of my own.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15138	Mr. Pavicevic, you're wasting your time, Mr. Minister is currently out of the O.R., his associates will tell him everything you discuss, will answer in one of their discussions, be assured of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15139	Mr. Arsic, please give me back my time, because this was a matter of procedure. As you know, every second here is important to us and I'm here for one matter of procedure, spent two minutes. Can I check out and re-apply?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15140	Mr. Pavicevic, I was surprised, if your time is so expensive, why did you spend so much time on this procedural part? We'll consider that, too. Go on, but please re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15141	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers and guests, Mr Arsic, the New Party will vote in favour of this Law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See in the area of higher education and I am very sorry that Minister Verbic is not here now because I have a very specific question for the Minister of Education in the Government of Serbia, Mr Verbic. Just a little bit to explain what my question is. In this Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, it reads in the Agreement itself in Article 5, the following - according to the positive regulations of the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Educational Qualifications in the European region, made in Lisbon on 11 April 1997 and the push for the Bologna Process, which they have accepted and signed both sides, the two parties will seek to align the issues, take care now of this important part, mutual recognition of the title and public documents on acquired higher education. This issue will be settled through a special protocol. Dear gentlemen, I am here now, considering the content of this Agreement I have imagined a situation. Let's imagine now that the interior minister in the Serbian government, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, has submitted, for example. a request for recognition of his doctoral degree in science, and my guess is that the Holy See would certainly be based on this Agreement, when it comes into force after we adopt him here, it would certainly be possible to provide conditions for a commission to be formed to now consider this imagined situation, that now the Home Secretary wants to nostrify his doctoral degree in science and this is being ensured by this. Watch out, in Article 6. The agreement reads this - in case there is a difference of opinion on the interpretation or application of this Agreement, the two sides will consult diplomatically and seek to reach a solution to friendly negotiations. I immediately imagine that there is a difference of opinion and interpretation, because in the Holy See, with respect to what was signed in Lisbon in 1997 and in line with the Bologna Process, what is necessarily imposed as a question of the nostrification of a doctor's science? The question arises, was that diploma acquired in accordance with the principle of academic integrity? Dear Mr Arsic, Minister Ljajic, Minister Tasovac, still does not have Minister Verbic, so has this diploma been acquired in accordance with the principle of academic integrity? In this imaginary situation, Minister Verbic would have had to answer that in our Law on Higher Education, despite the fact that New Party MPs have proposed the addition of the Law on Higher Education, which provides for the introduction of the principle of academic integrity in our system of higher education, Minister Verbic would have to send a single statement in response that in our system of higher education there is no academic integrity in the Law on Higher Education. Then in this premeditated situation which discusses the request of Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic for the recognition of diploma, science should record that in Serbia there is no principle of academic integrity in the Law of Higher Education and therefore there is a reasonable doubt that the parts of this doctoral dissertation, Mr Arsic, are plagiarized in that situation, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15142	Mr. Pavicevic, I have to interrupt you. If you continue to do so, you will also question your doctoral degree.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15143	No, now I'm gonna explain, I'm not done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15144	Don't explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15145	I did not finish, Mr Arsic, because the people in the commission, in an imaginary situation, I follow the members of the agreement, respected Mr Arsic, they learn from our Committee on Education of the Serbian Parliament, that Mr Stefanovic's doctoral dissertation commission was not qualified to judge his doctoral dissertation. What can he conclude?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15146	These are your personal opinions. Absolutely personal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15147	No, Mr. Arsic, the board and the agreement...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15148	I'm not familiar with the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15149	Sir, please take my time. I'm reading Article 5. Agreement, Article 6. The deal, because the commission that would judge Minister Stefanovic's request would certainly come into an awkward situation with a member of the 6th where he says -- that a solution to friendly negotiations must be reached. How come you're negotiating Mr. Arsic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15150	Two minutes, Mr. Pavicevic. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the championship is Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think Mr. Chairman, you've had to distract Mr. Pavicevic that the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. He used his five or seven minutes to hit the interior minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, as a bag of sand, and I am surprised that you did not warn him that the commission at the university at which Nebojsa Stefanovic obtained the call of a doctor of science was authentic. And for information Mr. Pavicevic, president of the commission, Mr. Pavicevic, was not any professor at Megatrend University, but at the Faculty of Economics in Subotica...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15152	Just please, Mr. Martinovic, don't speak directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15153	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15154	Just don't talk directly, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15155	You just pay attention to what the People's Messengers say. If the topic of the agenda is internal affairs, what do you think would happen if I were to get up now and the topic of the agenda is an agreement with the Holy Table and I'm saying that internal affairs were organised when the president of the party to which Mr. Pavicevic belonged was, for example, the federal interior minister? What do you think if I were to say, on October 5, 2000, they took over power by using the Legion and Special Operations Units, so in 2000, the Legion was a national hero, because it helped DOS take over power, and then in 2003 it became the criminal and the greatest criminal in the world? What do you think the debate in this National Assembly would turn into? So, I respect the right of every MP to talk about the agenda point in his style, but this was absolutely not the topic of the agenda. I ask you to take into account the dignity of the National Assembly as well as the dignity of all members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as incorrect information is being provided here and has been explained for several months that the doctorate is allegedly...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15156	Time, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15157	... Nebojje Stefanovic was falsified even though it was found, therefore, factographically established by the commission chaired by the professor of the Faculty of Economics in Subotica, that the doctorate of Nebojja Stefanovic was absolutely made the legions of artis and in accordance with the Law on Higher Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15158	I thank my colleague Martinovic. Since you haven't advertised a member of the Rules of Procedure... (Alexander Martinović, from the place: Article 106.) Article 106, I was about to tell you that I consider this a single replica because what you asked me to act as chairman. I can't get off this position, you have to do it as MPs. I fully agree that all of us should safeguard the dignity of the National Assembly, as well as the chairman, as well as the MPs. I tried to distract Mr. Pavicevic several times, but he continued as a professor of the university, so his discussion gave me some wonder. The word is, according to the Business, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Arsic's Honored Ministers Tasovac and Ljajic, Minister Verbic, unfortunately still has no respected guests from the ministry, was injured by Article 108. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly is taking care of himself. Mr. Arsic, two counts are within this breach of the Rules of Procedure now. First of all, Mr. Martinovic reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he can use two minutes. You let him speak for two minutes and 50 seconds, and when I, for example, get to my fifth minute, the first next second means turning off the microphone. Dear Mr. Arsic, that means you're running this session so you don't take care of the row at the session. The second point, Mr. Arsic, Mr. Martinovic resented you that I wasn't talking about the agenda point, and so did you. Dear gentlemen, I was just talking about the agenda point, and that, Mr. Arsic, has contributed to the order of the National Assembly. I've summoned, gentlemen, to Article 5. The agreement we're talking about here, regarding recognition, is calling public papers on higher education acquired. I have called, Mr Arsic, on Article 6 concerning the solution to friendly negotiations as far as misunderstandings are concerned, and there could certainly be a misunderstanding, I have cited it as an example, when Mr Stefanovic, the interior minister, would apply for recognition of his doctoral degree in science. I believe, Mr. Arsic, only to finish if I can, according to the Rules of Procedure, that if that request were addressed, there we would surely be baptized for the conditions under which Mr. Stefanovic acquired that title in our education system, Mr. Arsic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15160	Thank you, sir. Since there's been advertising by the Rules of Procedure, please allow me. Since I believe that when it comes to the nostration of diplomas between the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See, I think it's one serious agreement that probably wouldn't have been signed that is exactly what you've said, not what you've read, but how you've put our higher education institutions at what level. So, since I consider the Holy See to be a serious institution, I believe that the problem has been approached very seriously, and that is why they signed this agreement with us. If there were any of those problems you're talking about, this agreement wouldn't be in front of us today, they wouldn't have just signed it. As for the weather. I interrupted Mr. Martinovic like I interrupted you. I gave you two minutes. Two minutes ago, I returned you to the beginning, and I extended Mr. Martinovic for about 30 seconds. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: But he is the procedural minister... However, for the procedure concerning the minister, it's 10-15 seconds enough, and you've been talking for two and a few minutes about it, so we've got the time back to square one. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15161	Not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You said that you understood the injuries of the Rules of Procedure Martinovic with a replica, so by that basis, since I'm mentioned in his replica, I'm looking for a replica, so there's no confusion, and it's about October 5th. The Federal Minister of the Interior...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15162	By what quality do you speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15163	Because he mentioned the federal interior minister. I'm the only living former Federal Home Secretary
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15164	Is this business or replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15165	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15166	All right, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15167	Did you say his report was a replica? So October 5th is one big day in Serbian history. On October 5th, there was a major October, people's, civil, Serbian revolution, which brought Serbia's ability to live normally in the 21st century. To remind the MP who spoke of the SRS, whose member he was then, also supported the results of the elections that preceded October 5th and the October 5th events itself. You should remember that, no matter what efforts you make to push into the darkness, your past. Don't be ashamed of it. Everyone has some part of their past that they want to forget, but history is history. No help was needed by the people to then choose their future, and the decision of the Serbian citizens since 5 October led to the fact that we have at least a vision of democracy in this country today. One more thing, Chairman, the Holy See is not an institution, it's a state. This is an interstate agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15168	Thank you. Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15169	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, although I do not understand the right to replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which you have made possible to Mr. Zivkovic, but well, that is your assessment. The replica I asked for was for Mr Pavicevic's exposure and for this continued imputation of academic and political integrity. We devast the value of academic and political honesty if the invitation to this congratulation comes from a man who has been represented here in the National Assembly for months as a professor, and we have found that he is not a professor and has accepted that title even though it is not there. It's hard when someone in this National Assembly wants to introduce academic and political honesty, and by the way, he lied to us that there was a notary in Serbia that earned 160,000 euros, or 180, I don't remember anymore, but we didn't get from a gentleman academically congratulated, a professor who didn't, neither the name nor the name of that notary. Thirdly, I am very pleased and grateful that these benches are this tight and that they are bent, because I suppose a fellow professor, who is not, according to academic honesty, would speak in a yoga position, sitting, as he sat teaching and hanging out with his students, which you can see on YouTube and you can see in various videos. Now imagine someone who in a yoga position from this pay phone is talking to you, presenting himself as a professor and asking for the introduction of academic and political honesty, and by the way, there is no one, because if he did, he would be telling the truth, not misleading both the public and us fellow MPs here, talking about something that is not, from the prime minister's brother, from the notaries, and all sorts of other things and salva of hatred directed towards the government and other fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15170	National MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15171	So, Art. 106 and 107... I just want to point out one thing that's really bothering me. So, no MP in the Assembly can, and especially from the majority, advertise the Rules of Procedure, of course, after that using the replica, which has become traditional, to say that the reputation and dignity of the Serbian government is being violated here. I ask you as chairman and anyone who sits on your chair, not to allow that kind of abuse of the Rules of Procedure and that here any MP, and especially from the majority, is called upon for the dignity and reputation of the Serbian government. Gentlemen, be State Secretary and defend the dignity of the government. We're gonna break it, because she doesn't deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15172	Mr Stefanovic, in this high house, neither the government of Serbia nor the National Assembly can be violated. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: No. Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15173	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I haven't forgotten anything, and I remember very well what happened in 2000. Then there were federal elections and there were local elections, September 24, 2000. What I am now interested in is what links federal elections and local elections held throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia to the fact that DOS activists have fallen into Radio Television Serbia, into a republican institution, not a federal, not a local one, and set it on fire. What's also the fact that on the night of October 5th, you were taking pictures, kissing and hugging with Milorad Ulemek Legion, with members of the Zemun Clan. It wasn't me, it wasn't Zoran Babic, it wasn't Veroljub Arsic or Igor Beci or Aleksandar Vukic or Tomislav Nikolic, none of us were bathed at the swimming pool in Šiler, nor were we given racial horses from the ergela in Surcin. So that's all you've been doing. The Surcinians were good to you until the end of 2002. And then you remembered that on October 5th, these first fighters were drug dealers, criminals, war criminals, murderers, and so on, but they were very good to you for two years. For two years, your allies were only because on October 5th, they turned their backs on their political master Slobodan Milosevic and moved on to your side. Everybody knows that. After all, if you don't believe me, there's this book called "The Shadows Game", I guess you've read it, which is actually telling you what happened in October 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15174	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. I've got reports... (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You don't have a chance, Mr. Zivkovic, you're not mentioned. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: He mentioned it five times. I haven't heard your name and name, Mr. Zivkovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pavicevic, allow me... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Allow according to the Rules of Procedure. You can cheer up the MPs, not a problem. Let me say something as chairman. So, I have Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic's report. I also have a registered Mr. Zivkovic. Mr. Zivkovic, you don't have a chance. Mr. Pavicevic, you will now get a word in the Rules of Procedure. If you break the Rules of Procedure, if you cause a replica, someone who's authorized and we close the circle of replicas will get the word of the minister, whatever it is said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Mr Becic, the Honorable Ministers Ljajic and Tasovac, as Minister Verbic still does not have respected guests from the ministries, was injured by the Rules of Procedure in Article 103, which regulates the issue of reporting for injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president. You injured this member when you allowed Mr. Babic to use one term, which cannot be related to the operation of this National Assembly, to describe my activities in this National Assembly, and Mr. Babic said I serve lies. Never, Mr. Becic, to pass it on to Mr. Babic. For the truth's sake, it's true that sometimes I teach at the university in nature, when it's a good time and when I agree with students and students to go to nature to teach, dear Mr. Becic. It is true, it is true, Mr. Becic, that we MPs of the New Party here have proposed the Law on Law Supplements... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15176	Mr. Pavicevic... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the site: Please do not turn off my microphone. I have two minutes to explain... )......................................................................................................... Unless you're misusing... You've already said that, you've explained it. I have enough arguments on your part to tell you that I haven't broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: You cannot interrupt me in the first minute...) I can if you abuse the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I have the right to explain in two minutes... But you have no right to talk about anything, about the replica, about replicating Mr. Babic. I give you a warning, Mr. Pavicevic, because the word has been taken away, and you keep talking. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Then the dignity of the Assembly here was humiliated to the end. I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Mr. Granny, did you get that? (Zoran Babic, from the place: it's enough.) That's enough, Mr. Granny. The word has a minister in the government, Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased that the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See in the area of higher education has enabled us to learn that it is possible to give lectures in nature, no matter where it is. But I really don't think it's right at this point to call Minister Verbic to his indifference in the O.R., who was here all the time until you showed up in the hall. So that you would not be left without a concrete answer to the question, and the question was: are we representatives of three or one ministry? Yeah, we're representatives of three ministries. Maybe it's confusing for you that we have the Ministry of Culture and Information, which is the Ministry of Science, Education, I can explain to you after all, so I don't waste my time, as it's called, which ministry. Once again, I say, in other words, you can go through the parliamentary question, you will receive a reply from Minister Verbic, who literally came out a few minutes before you came in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15178	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Tasovac answered your questions. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: He did not understand me well. I wasn’t there to know if he understood you well and what you were saying at the time, so I don’t have the opportunity to give you a replica. The word has the People's MP Gordana Topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15179	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers and fellow People's MPs, in the framework of a joint single search, I will talk about the draft law confirming the Agreement on the Co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See in the area of higher education, which was signed in Belgrade on 27 June 2014. The agreement was created on the Vatican side's initiative, and in a desire to encourage, succeed and implement bilateral co-operation in the area of higher education. In addition to the goodwill of the two sides, mutual respect and respect, and the 1997 Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications in the European region, as well as the positive and constructive role that religion enjoys in every society. In particular, the agreement will realise the development of co-operation in the area of higher education for church needs, as well as for other high education subjects. Direct contacts between higher education reference institutions will also be provided, as well as the conclusion of specific cooperation agreements in the area of higher education. In addition to this, harmonisation of the issue of public recognition of calling and mutual recognition of the calling of public documents on higher education acquired is regulated. I would point out that this issue has not been regulated so far and that this will improve our mutual relations in the field of education. In practice, this issue is largely related to the Theological-Catehit Institute in Subotica, which has so far had no accreditation, and the right to issue diplomas recognised in Serbia. In this way, students will have the right to continue postgraduate studies at other universities, while at the same time, the current institute will receive higher academic level and university statutes. In the context of the address, I would like to remind you that the Protocol on Cooperation between the National Library of Serbia and the Vatican Library, which provides for the exchange of publications, titles and experts in the fields of collection, preservation, processing and protection of library buildings, was signed on 8 September 2014. In addition to the fact that the agreement represents an important step in bilateral relations between the two countries, which creates a framework for further co-operation, I would point out as a folk MP to the importance of respect, respect, knowledge of other religions and customs, which we deserve to have our religion and other prices and respect for, and that is a very common saying in our people, which says – as much as you respect, you will also be respected. I can confirm all of this from personal experience, because I come from the area of Panchev, more specifically Banatski Novi Sel, where 30% of the Romanian people are national, and the beauty of it is that we as a community of the two peoples cooperate, respect and respect and we are well acquainted with each other with culture and customs, as well as with language and letter. Due to all this, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15180	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger of the Jellysavet of the Colors.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15181	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is ahead of us with a united review of four draft laws confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as regards emergency flood recovery, the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as regards the Transition Project from analog to the digital system, the European Convention on the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage and the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See in the area of Higher Education. I will refer to the 1st point of this joint investigation, which refers to the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with regard to the urgent recovery of the project from floods, of course, without reducing the importance of other agreements, contracts and conventions. The loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is very important because of the fact that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is ready to grant a loan of 227m480m euros for the implementation of the Emergency Flood Recovery Project in the Republic of Serbia, which is extremely important for Serbia, which otherwise does not have its own resources for that purpose. After the May of this year flood, the government of the Republic of Serbia is seeking to provide funding under the most favourable conditions. The government, in co-operation with the European Commission, with the UN, with the World Bank, which provided not only financial but also professional assistance in the assessment, found that the damage caused by the May floods was 1.7 billion euros, of which 885m euros account for destroyed material goods in 24 municipalities that have been flooded. I don't want to say in detail how big and severe the consequences of the floods in energy, mining, agriculture, infrastructure, because we all know that, it's clear to everyone. Since I come from the Kings, I would only mention that the City of Kraljevo, which covers the territory of 1,530 km2, on whose territory about 4,300 hectares were flooded, over 300 houses were damaged, and the floods took hundreds of miles of roads and more than 30 bridges, otherwise there were floods, not only in May, but before that, during the Easter holidays, in April of the month, because the King has three rivers, West Morava, Ibar and Ribnica which often know to swell, to raise the level of groundwater that leads not only to floods, but also threatens drinking water from surrounding wells. The damage estimated at the level of the Republic of Serbia in the Energy and Mining sector is 488m euros, in agriculture 228m euros, of infrastructure 24m euros. The objective of this loan is not only to recover quickly from natural disasters, but also to prevent further, negative effects from flooding, both in energy and in agriculture and especially in improving flood protection infrastructure. The terms of the loan agreement are very favourable, in the sense that the duration of the loan is 30 years, that the grace period is nine years and that it is a very low interest rate, which means that Serbia will practically start paying off the loan only from 1 November 2023. I feel the need, but also the moral obligation, according to the citizens of the Kings, especially to those from flooded areas, to express my belief that the City of Kraljevo will also be on the list of municipalities and cities where the consequences of the floods will be resolved and that in some future time special attention will be paid to that third component of the project, which concerns the reconstruction of the priority flood protection infrastructure. You'll agree that prevention is always the most important thing. Our people would say, "Better to prevent than to heal." I will also point out that the King is one of the few cities in Serbia, if not the only one, not only affected by natural disasters, earthquakes and floods, but the city that has suffered the greatest burden so-called. transitions, starting in the '90s and away. Why am I saying this? For the simple reason that 20 years back in Serbia, including in the King, is the wrong policy in economic, economic and other terms, which has led the King so poor that without the help of the state and these loans, he cannot solve the problem of his fellow citizens in flooded areas. There are many reasons why these agreements should be adopted and adopted and SNS will do so in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15182	Thank you. The People's Messenger Ivana Dinić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Nebojsa Tatomir. Here you go, Miss Dinic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15183	The Honored Chairman, honourable ministers, representatives of the ministries, fellow MPs and MPs, is taking part in the debate on the proposal for a law confirming a guarantee agreement between the RS and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the SPS parliamentary group is giving strong support to the work of the RS government with the intensities to finally finalise what has been in the focus of the public and attention for a long time, which is the digitisation of earthly television. Our whole discussion today needs to send a clear message to all RS citizens, which is that it is in the interest of all of us such a bill and that its adoption is necessary and inevitable. On the other hand, the political message to citizens is the fact that the European Community expects the adoption of such a proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty before, because it is necessary to define and make clear the position on what this bill indicates, and this is the seriousness in the approach to financial analysis of the means necessary for the completion of the digitalisation process, i.e. to switch from analogue to digital signal broadcasting, as well as a detailed way to realise this project and the deadline within which the digitalisation of earthly television is foreseen. The RS government headed by Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, as well as the government in its current meeting with Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, has made clear the shifts seen in raising the ratings and our country's reputation in the international community. From the point of view of the profession it is important to point out that it is very unequivocal and clear that this envisaged transition from analogue to digital broadcasting of radio-television programs is an extremely better and better quality solution than an existing solution to RS. As a result, the SPS MPs will definitely support the confirmation of this Guarantee Treaty, as the fact that digitalisation of radio-difusion would allow, not only a multiple better quality of image and sound, but also a much larger number of radio-television programs, content adapted to national minorities, a functionality that is adapted to people with disabilities. What is very important is the release of analogue spectrum that could be used for some new purposes, e.g. You could give in to mobile operators. Definitely not the most significant improvement in the quality of image and sound, but there is a financial benefit of the concession of this analogue part of the spectrum, as it could thus provide significant revenue to the RS budget. For many years, perhaps a decade, there has been a question of how to develop rural areas in RS? In this way, by releasing a useful part of the spectrum of frequencies, we would be able to ensure good internet coverage in remote areas in RS, raise the level of information to a higher level, create better conditions for even development, further implies much better operating conditions and also to achieve a better investment environment in these areas. All of these are reasons why the confirmation of this contract is quite significant, in order to complete this started process of digitisation of Earth television, i.e. from analogue to digital signal broadcasting, already intended for money. In this way, we would make available all the advantages that we have talked about in this way of broadcasting signals and radio-television programs. But when we talk about digitisation, what it really represents and is the biggest concern of all RS citizens is how much it will cost them. During the debate on the proposal for a law on electronic communications, and today we have repeatedly said that a set-top boxing device is necessary to receive the digital signal. This device should only be obtained by those users who receive a television signal via antennas, provided that we do not talk about the socially endangered population, because certain funding from the RS budget is provided for them to obtain these devices. As regards IP-TV users, IP-TV users and cable television by their providers have secured digital reception equipment, so when it comes to citizens' concerns about the costs of receiving the digital signal, it is important to know that these costs are reduced to minimum and necessary, in the sense that all of this is in the interest of all RS citizens. In order to achieve greater functionality and technological progress of our country, which will definitely enable this digitalisation of signal broadcasting, all SPS MPs will support and vote in favour of the adoption of such a bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15184	Thank you, Miss Dinic. The word has the People's Messenger Nebojsa Tatomir, and let Irena Alexic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Tatomir.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15185	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President-in-Office of the European Convention on the Protection of Audio-Visual Heritage, as well as the confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is now on the agenda, i.e. a project to move from analog to the digital system. The European Convention on the Protection of Audio-Visual Heritage was signed in 2001 in Strasbourg. This is primarily about a law that represents harmonising our legislation with European legislation, which is still very important because of the possibility of accession and the use of European funds that are set for these purposes. Of course, in Serbia so far, much has been done to protect and archive audio-visual works, which is best seen through the work of the famous Yugoslav Cinematheque, which has an enviable number of preserved and archived film works, as well as through the work of Serbia's Radio-Television, or its archive department, which is one of the richest in the region and has several hundred thousand audio-visual records in its funds. Television and film works, despite the slowdown in the early stages of the development of these media, are now recognised as artistic works and are considered equally important as works of other art. By doing so, they become part of an immaterial cultural heritage. They are also believed to be part of the European and world heritage, which requires countries to take all measures to ensure the preservation of these works. What is important is that this Convention encourages and promotes and voluntarily depositing materials, moving images and will in no way affect the provisions of international agreements relating to the protection of copyright and related rights. This Convention lays down that contracts with rightholders will also specify the conditions under which the material of moving images can be made available to the public, as well as the rights and obligations of the deposited material. The aim of this Convention is to ensure the protection of European audio-visual heritage as an immaterial cultural heritage from all Member States, as well as its respect as the forms of art and records of our history and through its collection, preservation and availability for cultural, scientific and research purposes, which is in the public interest. We also have before us a confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the project to switch from analogue to digital signal. Of course this process should be completed by the end, which will enable this contract. Otherwise, switching from analogue to digital broadcasting system will allow citizens of Serbia new services and faster access to technologies. In doing so, one of the important things in this process is to explain to citizens that digitisation is not a luxury, but a need. In addition, digitisation will allow citizens better quality of sound and image, more diverse content, more radio and television programmes, new services for people with disabilities and for older people, improvement of additional services. This process must also be implemented for the sake of technological progress and development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as coordination with countries in the region and the EU. The digitalisation service providers will be able to adapt content according to the needs of different target groups, interactivity, as well as the possibility of providing services on demand and lower broadcasting costs, while enabling the state to use radio spectrum more efficiently, the use of freed spectrum for new services, promotion of development, technology and new jobs, improving competition and more opportunities to improve creativity and preserve cultural identity. Of course, because of all this, we're going to vote in voting day for these proposals. Since we have repeatedly mentioned France as a good example of preserving our cultural identity and language, I think we should look to the French system as a state. The French state is very concerned about preserving its language, cultural identity and the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15186	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Irena Alexic, and let the MP Alexander Peranovic be prepared. Here you go, Miss Alexic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Peranovic, and let the folk's letter Ljiljana Malusic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15187	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, I will talk about two draft laws in the context of today's joint debate, and these are the Guarantee Treaty - the switch from analog to the digital system and the second is the Emergency Flood Recovery Loan. When we talk about digitisation in the Republic of Serbia, I can say at first that it is something that is one big step forward. According to Minister Tasovac, we have made a lot of small ones, but this is an exceptional step because Serbia must join EU countries and must join countries in the region and digitisation in this way is really something that is not necessarily, that is something that is a step for all of us. The contract will cover the rehabilitation of 54 buildings and will build two antenna systems in Somboro and Kikinda. Through such a project, coverage of the digital system in the Republic of Serbia will cover 95% of our population in the Republic of Serbia. The conditions we have received and this 24 million-dollar guarantee agreement and a grace period of two years are something that is extremely favourable and something that the Republic of Serbia and this Government are doing, and these are steps forward to bring the EU and all the countries of the modern system and the modern world closer. This kind of project will also include the purchase of equipment, certain goods, works and services. Why I pointed this out and it's clear here and it's specified that the deadline for the end of all this is June 2015. It is something that is responsible, something that is really serious to the citizens of Serbia and to all the factors of our country. The second legal solution I want to talk about is something that is not popular to tell anyone today, an emergency flood recovery loan. Our Republic of 2014 is being followed by an elemental disaster. Let's start with the largest Mayans that have hit the Republic of Serbia and everything that's been following us for the last days and the last three, four months in Braničev County, in Tekia, what happened three to four days ago in Majdanpek. It's something that no one wanted, no one expected, and the Republic has to deal with. Flood damage is about 1.7 billion euros. That's about 2.7% of gross social income. The Republic of Serbia will bridge and address all the problems that have arisen from the flood with this loan, but this loan tells us clearly and shows us responsibility for having clear positions where this money will be adopted. Under number one, he'll be focused on the power grid. We know that an extremely affected energo system, we know that our mining base "Colubara", "The Great Cranians" and "The Tamnava", or "West Field" has been compromised. We know that there's a mirror of a water surface about 15 square miles, about 14 meters deep. It takes a rescue to get us a chance to exploit coal from there. The agriculture sector is something that my end of where I come from, the Machvani County, and other districts are extremely affected. I must point out that 80,000 hectares of farmland have been affected by floods or 30,000 small or medium-sized agricultural holdings. The way that all this will be restored and these loans are the way to get over it as soon as possible, although some forecasts are that the recovery will last about five years and that reduced income from this year in agricultural production of 5.6% must be compensated, but it will not be so fast and it will not be so simple. What does it matter to point out here? It is important to point out that the spills along rivers or shores along the canals will also be covered by this loan and something the government of the Republic of Serbia is thinking is a reserve. I don't know if the public is familiar, but yesterday, a disaster was also avoided in the Mesna Community of Prnjavor, in the Municipality of Sabac, on the banks of the Drina River, popularly called Alanović's port, where the rapid intervention of members of the firm "Save Water" and the use of these heavy machinerys protected the area and the agricultural area. Also, it must be thought during the next period of the making of coastal forts and embankments. It is true that no one could have predicted it, but we have faced one failure of 12 years, where no one has thought about whether it will come, God forbid, the flood, and we know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this year has allocated huge resources to help farmers, to help all families who have been threatened, and some of the previous, three, four or five years ago, have not cared about it and have left our fellow citizens, let me say, on the whole. I believe that all the projects ahead of us will be arranged in one best way and that as soon as possible we will solve all the problems ahead of us, and on the other hand catch up with the modern world and countries in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15188	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic, and let the Parliament of the People be prepared, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15189	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Ministers, respected fellow MPs, today I will talk about the proposal for a law confirming the Loan Agreement, an emergency flood recovery project between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 99(1) point 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that the National Assembly confirms international agreements when the law provides for the obligation to confirm them. The agreement was signed in Washington on 9 October 2014 and this agreement gave the Republic of Serbia 227,480,000 euros. This Agreement was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 14 September, and what is to be said? Unfortunately, the floods that took place in May 2014 brought a complete disaster to the Republic of Serbia. The highest percentage or maximum damage has just been done to energy, then mining, agriculture and infrastructure. Energy with mining has suffered damages of 488,000,000 euros, agriculture around 228,000,000 euros. Then we will understand what is the amount of water and how much damage the Republic of Serbia has suffered, which would mean approximately 2.7% of GDP damage and the loss of 2% of GDP. From June 10th to July 10th 2014, the Republic of Serbia, according to the highest international standards and methodology currently in place in the EU, as well as in the UN, and the International Bank took part in this, has reached the figure that the total damage is 1.7 billion euros. It's a disaster damage that we're going to have to deal with, even though we got a loan. The loan is small, but thanks to all people of good faith, above all to the people who live in this Serbia, who have responded instantly, then to other countries, to Emirates, Italy, Japan and other countries, that I do not count, but I would remember the sad moments of all cities, and there were 49 in Serbia, which were under siege of water. Unfortunately, there were human casualties as well. This is slowly, thanks to the International Bank and many funds, European and foreign, we are getting away with it. I must mention, in order not to forget, the areas affected by the floods were 49 municipalities, of which the most endangered Alexinac, Bajina Basta, Bogatic, Čačak, Čupria, Despotovac, Doljevac, Gornji Milanovac, Grocka, Jagodina, Knić, Koceljević, Kosjerić, Kragujevac, Kraljević, Krapanj, Krupanj, Kruševac, Lajkovac, Ljig, Ljubovija, Loznica, Lucani, Mali Zvornik, Milica, Mladenovac, Obrenavac, Osec, Paracin, Petrovac na Mlavi, Poževac, Požega, Rač, Rač, Ražanj, Režac, Šada, Šid, Smederjevska Palanka, Smska Mitrovica, Svilinac, Trstnik, Užitenik, Užec, Užega, Valin, Valinj, Varinjovci, Varina, Varina, Varina, Varinskavci, V. 49 Today is the day when we can appeal to people of goodwill from all over the world, we need that money. We did get a loan from the International Bank and that loan for 30 years, all of it is fantastic, but it won't be enough, because it covers about just agriculture. The loan was received for 30 years, the grace period is nine years, the interest rate is a six-month Eurobor plus a variable margin, currently at 0.80%. The access fee paid to the bank is 0.25% of the amount of the loan, the amount of the non-retired funds of 0.25%. Since 2023, interest has been paid, every 1 May and 1 November. We're returning on very decent interest, but this isn't enough. What I would like to mention and what hurts is that two thirds of the electricity industry and mining suffered enormous damage, especially "Colubara" from their two spears, "Tumnava" and "The Great Cranians", with "Tamnava", or "West Field", a whole crater 15 kilometers long and a depth of 14 meters. For this recovery alone, we need a huge amount of money. I hope we have one for that, too. We'll see what we can do. The agriculture sector has also been disastrously overrun, 80,000 land-uses have been flooded, and 30,000 small and medium-sized land-uses have been completely destroyed. For the recovery of agriculture and losses, we need 228,000,000 euros. The bank approved the money and it goes through the projects, four projects are at stake. The first refers to energy and mining, the second to agriculture and the third to infrastructure, which has also been disastrously passed, from misery beyond anything else. I wouldn't count, which colleagues have already said how much money it takes to get rid of it. It's gonna take years, but it's important that we get the funds and that the recovery move immediately. I will surely support this law and not only will I support it, but I will vote for it. Once again, all people of goodwill should participate in the recovery of all possible programs, there are plenty of us, so my God, this is Serbia, we've always heard of these things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15190	Thank you. Mrs. Batic is not in the O.R. Also, Mr. Ciric isn't in the O.R. The word is Mr. Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will first discuss the audiovisual heritage. So, as an inheritance to the minister of justice, I have shown myself in time, and this has to do with one of the lies that has been made today, the minister of justice delivered these photographs, in which several officials from 2000 to 2003 are seen as an audiovisual heritage. It's about the Republic Interior Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. The video is from a party in Kula to honor special ops units, i.e. entertainment for people suspected and convicted of killing Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. In the second photo as an audiovisual legacy, you have a former federal interior minister, who inherited the late prime minister, who saw his photo from that party with the republican minister who, after the murder, became once again in the government of my friend, the Minister of the Interior, regardless of his death. I also see here as an inheritance the next photograph -- a former federal minister and my fellow farmer, former prime minister, at a party in The Tower with minors dances along with the song Bajaga, who participates in the concert in favour of JSO, and the song is called "My comrades are tough guys". So, so much for the untruth that's been made today, because the audiovisual heritage clearly says that one of the lies here is being told...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15192	Please, Mr. Risticevic, you must return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15193	Well, I'm in the dark. What's an audiovisual legacy, if this isn't? I'll respect you, only for a very short time. This is a photograph of his Deputy Prime Minister, as they called him - Mr. Legion. I've given the minister of justice to check it out, and if I have to do it again, I'll have to check to see if this is an audiovisual legacy...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15194	Please, just connect it to culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15195	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15196	What does that have to do with culture?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15197	I think it's on the agenda of the Audiovisual Heritage Act, the agreement. Is it or isn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15198	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15199	Well, this is unfortunately part of that legacy. It's ugly, but it's an inheritance. Ugly legacy audiovisual. So, if the song "My comrades are tough guys"...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15200	I'm not sure it's a cultural heritage, but okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15201	It's rude, it's ugly, but it's a legacy. Anyway, I won't argue with you, Mr. Chairman, I'll move on to what's more important, as far as agriculture and floods are concerned. Great water can be a big trouble. Great water can also be of great benefit. Those who ruled before us didn't know that. So what was supposed to be a great benefit and what we needed to use was useful to us. It's become a great shame. When it comes to large water, if you clean up the streams of rivers and plums, if you fix the accumulation of water disposal when there's too much water, then that water you put down can then be used for agricultural purposes. Big water doesn't have to do much damage to agriculture. Great water can also be a blessing for agricultural crops, even vineyards if it is a dry year. It can drop by drop the system, so big water can contribute to a larger breed of grapes, can improve even more wine varieties. Unlike my fellow farmer, I will try to say that this loan is very important and as far as mining and agriculture are concerned. The damage to agriculture is $228 million. Thirty-thirty-seven thousand landowners will find it difficult to recover in the next five to ten years from the damage caused by the water. The damage may not have been able to be avoided, it may not have been possible to warn, but I think that earlier wisdom, some effort, knowledge, and sweat could certainly have been less. Therefore, I urge the Government to learn from other people's mistakes, not our own, and to try with this money and other money, not only to repair damage that was 1.7 billion in agriculture and 228 million in mining and energy 500 million, which could be a major problem for the supply of electricity, not only for the population, but also for the economy, to take care of future and if a grandiose loan is to be withdrawn to pour rivers, canal networks, etc. offices in a way that everything is two-functional, when we have excess water to pull it into some accumulations and put it off, and when we have large and extreme droughts to supply our agricultural fields from these accumulations and to increase income, not to cause us damage to the flood. Even though I am not a mining specialist, since I visited Kolubara several times with the Chinese delegation, I must also, regardless of the Minister of Culture or the Minister of Trade, say that this damage to mining is significant. Also, I have to remind them of a project that is very interesting, and it's about Colubara A, where the project was made to use coal that has not been used so far, which is low-calorie, to use municipal waste and to build a new thermal power plant in Colubara A with the help of a fluid boiler, which will produce heat and 300 megawatts of electricity, so we have a power shortage. If now, God forbid, we could establish an economic system and if we could develop a sudden economy, we would have to import a significant amount of electricity. I also delivered the project to the departments in charge. So, there's an interest in investors who can do that, to take care of over 180 million tons of low-carbon coal that the thermoelectric power plants can't use and that's now a waste, to try to compensate for the damage that's hit us, to make up for the Colubar Termoelectric Power Plant, which is almost out of function, which is due to stop working in 2020, the new potential in the production of electricity, and thus supplying our economy, primarily the processing industry, with enough electricity and coal and municipal waste, which has to be managed in some way anyway. So, we need to kill two flies with one blow, and we need the electricity we get to use this damage of 1.7 billion as soon as possible, to use water as a function of agricultural development, to make farmers produce as many primary crops as possible, to develop livestock, to develop the processing industry, because we have 30 to 40 thousand pieces of waste and the slaughterhouse industry is working with 30 to 40 percent of our capacity. I am taking this opportunity because the Minister of Trade is present because he is also Minister of Telecommunications, to tell him to pay attention because we have to defend ourselves in some way against excessive imports of meat, milk, cheese, etc. in the next period. With that in mind, I always offer support, not only for me, but for the Committee on Agriculture, that in a certain way we try not to suffer any harm in agriculture from dumping imports that are happening these days, because only at dumping prices this year have we imported over 350,000 pigs until today. So, what I'm saying is not only this loan, we're going to do some troubles, and we're going to make up for some damage in mining and energy, but we're going to do with what I've been saying to improve the production of electricity, to improve agricultural production, and if we have to withdraw some more loans, to finally take out our sewers, water streams and plums, that what's been a great deal of trouble becomes a big benefit to agriculture and to be a great benefit to the processing industry. Because, despite being president of the Committee on Agriculture and Farmers, agriculture without the processing industry won't be able to work. The flood was meant to help us gather around one problem and try all together, while we were together, to solve some issues and to solve all that peasants produce, to process industry and workers and thus raise the economic power of this country, because only if we raise the country's economy will Serbia be a small country with a great nation again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15202	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I start speaking, I'd like an explanation. I see that for some time now, the rule is that if the speaker says at first he supports the bill, then he can say absolutely what he wants. I'd just like to ask if that applies to opposition MPs. If it is – yes, I will say that I support it, that I may speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15204	You're very funny, but that rule doesn't exist in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15205	This is a very serious thing. I'm not asking to be funny, but I'm asking why, let's say, MP Zoran Zivkovic wasn't allowed to talk about the cause of the flood damage, and Mr Risticevic spoke earlier, only I wrote down...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15206	Ms. Jerkov, you called in the agenda, not on the replica about Mr. Zivkovic. You belong to a whole other parliamentary group. But, yes, you're right, Mr. Zivkovic was on your list.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15207	I will try to speak, probably unsuccessfully, but you assess what you hold relevant to the discussion or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15208	I apologize, Mr. Stefanovic, I did not immediately see the connection between Miss Jerkov and Mr. Zivkovic, but then I remembered that Mr. Zivkovic was on your list. Here, you can defend Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15209	If you can talk in your spare time, not in the time of our MP group. I'd like to talk about one of these laws that's in front of us today, which is the Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project and the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement, when it comes to emergency flood recovery. It's about a loan that I think, first of all, no one will argue here that it's necessary. The damage Serbia suffered in the May floods is incredibly large. The loan we are taking is under favourable conditions, and we see that it is given under much more favourable conditions than those of those loans that are incorrectly presented and falsely presented to be the most favourable in Serbia's history, and these are loans that Serbia has taken from the United Arab Emirates and that there are no other seven billion euros for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the time of the SNS's debt to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it would probably not be a topic today. This today would not be a topic if we had ever had a chance in this congregation to discuss whether the damage caused by the May floods could have been prevented. Instead of the session requested by DS, and the SNS refused to allow, we received a session where the Prime Minister held endless monologues and answered questions that no one had asked him. As you may know, and the presidents of the Assembly are well known, the DS has requested to hold a session in this Assembly with a special topic, of particular importance and not to be called upon by politicians, but to be invited by the directors of water companies in whose jurisdiction is flood protection, people who led crisis headquarters, people who participated in this chain of communication and instead, we received a session that was in that regular term Thursday, when the parliamentary issues were raised which none of the people who could really tell us whether the May floods could be prevented, whether the damage could be reduced, but instead we had Alexander Vukic, who was the whole issue of the flood damage prevention, experienced through that sentence he referred to in that cabinet – silence there. Just because the defence against the floods was led by an unprofessional man who had experienced the job by silenced the ministers, police chiefs, the military, the emergency sector, who gave orders to directors of water companies, who did absolutely not understand and who was absolutely unprofessional, we have a situation that the damage was obviously much greater than it was meant to be. If the damage could have been prevented, it can be seen in the case of the AP Vojvodina, where, unlike the Government of the Republic of Serbia, people who really listen to something about it and know where the main word in the defense of floods was led by people from "Vode-Vojvodine", led by people who spent 20, 30 years in the water business, and evacuated by people who were qualified to do so, who are not angry at people and who do not mind people who, in a situation where their water is blue house, do not behave extremely rationally and do not act in the manner in which the unprofessional prime minister requires them, and there was evidence that the damage that occurred in the May floods could have been prevented. I am glad that the president has come now, she has answered my question why she did not call the session requested by DS, although according to the Rules of Procedure she was obliged to do so, that there were no conditions for such a session to be held, in other words, she replied that they had not obtained the conditions for the Rules of Procedure to be respected. If the goal is for DS to apply for such a single session every month, we can do it, but I think that in this way we would first devise this Assembly, and secondly, I think that people who have really suffered incredible damages in floods would be further offended, humiliated, as if it weren't enough that some of them in Obrenovac still don't have houses, and of those houses that were spectacularly announced that they would be by the start of winter, obviously there's nothing. When we talk about this loan, because we borrow a lot of money today, we borrow 227m euros, we have to talk about whether there is someone's responsibility because the damage is as big as it is and whether it could be prevented in any way. President, if you wish, we will renew our request to hold a session of people who know what they're talking about and who will be able to tell us if there are any failures in that chain of communication these days in May, not the Prime Minister who's going to give us political speeches. That, I'm sorry, the people of Obrenovac don't want to listen. They want to hear if there were any failures in Belgrade, did the Hydrometeorological Institute warn on time, did people react on time, did all that could have been done, and did the evacuation go fast enough, could that water have stopped? These are all things that these people must have answers to. We instead of giving them the answer to that, we are today passing a bill on loans, I say, which no one argues is necessary, but also how we demand that responsibility be determined for such and such damage and above all, most importantly, for the human sacrifices that took place in Obrenovac those days. It's happening right now in Majdanpek. We just don't know whose responsibility it is. Is there an ESM leak, is there a ministry leak, and how is it possible that one freezing rain causes such a collapse that people have no food, no electricity, no water, no heating for five days? These are all the things that we here, trying to protect someone, avoid talking about, and these are the things that are the obligations of us who are elected here in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, to talk about them. No one here came to us to sit down and push button number four when you, president, press the bells, so warn them that they should vote for some proposal, but I guess we came here to work. I guess we came here to talk about some things, not just today or in voting day, to support the bill that we're going to be in charge of 225m euros and not to say whose responsibility it is and not to say and to ask whether this damage could be reduced, could that damage have been prevented. DS MPs have more responsibilities and more sense of obligation towards citizens than to vote – yes, when you push the bells and therefore we feel it is our duty to ask all these questions in this Assembly when we talk about this today. I believe that not all MPs feel the need, but then those who do not want to talk about the responsibility for the damage that has taken place, which is why we are taking the loan today, should wonder why they have even applied for MPs and why they are sitting in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15210	Thank you. The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15211	For the sake of truth, the bell was introduced to those MPs in the eighth meeting when Miss Jerkov was deputy head of the DS parliamentary group, so that the bell bell, and here will be confirmed by Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, were gathered not to say what is being gathered on the bell in my area. What's said and what I'm going to try to say in this incomplete two minutes, a lot of hypocrisy, a lot of untruth, a lot of politics. I'll remind you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15212	Ambassador, you've got a lot more time, you're on the list, you've got time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15213	This is a replica. I'll talk later. The DS parliamentary group has requested a committee to control the use of funds intended for floods. Then when the SNS stood up and said on a given hand – yes, we will, but let us introduce a survey committee and make a survey committee that will deal with not only the spending of funds intended for the floods in 2014, but all those spending on both Kralje and Jasa Tomic and Mionica and all those accidents that took place in Serbia and where and how the money went, and I know that the Mayor of the Kings from the list, Ms Jerkov, ended up in custody just because of such spending. You requested a session of the Assembly to discuss the government's actions during the flood period. You received a session of the Assembly, the ministers came, but then it bothered you that it was Thursday. Excuse me, Miss Jerkov, why wasn't there on Tuesdays, but it was Thursdays, so here's the problem. It was disturbing, you also accused Mr. Alexander Vukic of everything and everything in our society, not only in the period of flooding, but even when someone spills coffee in the tray, and then when the Prime Minister came here to answer all these questions you said – why did the prime minister come, give some directors there, give someone else, don't give him because you didn't have a replica of any answer. On the other hand, what was most disturbing, this expertise of the circuit headquarters for emergency situations, who was the expert of Mr. Goran Jesic, who in 1993 enrolled in the university, who in 1995 passed the first exam and who had completed his single misery in 2005, 12 years of age, was that the expertise he had treated in the floods, and it was run by headquarters?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15214	The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15215	First, to apologize to Mr Babic for studying Mr Jesic, which is not like Nebojsa Stefanovic one morning early and doctored, I simply see it as someone's grudge. When you talk about the expertise of the circuit crisis headquarters, that's exactly what we don't understand. There, Goran Jesic made no decisions and did not shout – the silence there for people who sat there, but also people from the Water of Vojvodina who spent 30 years defending themselves from the floods, who knew what they were doing, they made decisions without talking about the president of the Shid municipality of your party, who did not want to co-operate with the province's crisis headquarters because he did not want to deal with the thieves, so he organized the citizens to drill and cut up the sacks that were installed by the Voivodinena Waters. That's what happened in the floods. That's why we didn't want Mr. Vukic, or the session we asked for, we didn't ask him to be Mr. Vukic because he doesn't know anything about these things, that's what this is about. It's not about defending the floods to be spoken by politicians, it's about people dealing with the water industry. They should tell us if there were any failures, whether it could be prevented, whether the "Serbians" were warned in time, whether they took all things, that is, Mr. Babic's things that neither you nor I nor Mr. Vukic know about. These are the things we need to talk to people who are professional. We wanted a session with a theme of special importance, not parliamentary issues of government. We didn't provide for any of the ministers to come to that session where we wanted to talk about the responsibility that was caused by the damage, and what you think Mr. Vukic has answers to all the questions in this country and in that you don't accept that there are things that he doesn't know about, such as evacuation, flood defense, sacking, that's obviously the difference between you and us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15216	Replica Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15217	When all this was said for the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, who led the circuit headquarters and who was the commander of the circuit headquarters for the elemental disasters, someone expert? Who? Goran Jesic? During 12 years of so-called studio study, one-tenth. Brooke. He wasn't so professional, he was just there and he was just getting some pay and he was just getting some compensation. If he was running someone else, so professional, why was he sitting there at all, why didn't he give it a chance to another? Why did Bojan Pajtic change it anyway? Why is he no longer so professional and so agile and so quality? Why isn't he at work anymore? You're used to creating an atmosphere in our society where darts are in your hand, the target is Alexander Vukic, but not as an image, but as a personal one, and no one defends himself. You know, there's no right for the Prime Minister to come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because DS and Mrs. Jerkov wanted to talk to someone else. They wanted to talk to the directors of public enterprises. Did you want to talk to the truckers? After all, Mr. Puzovic, I found him in Sapac in hell of local self-government who held her hands in her pockets and said – it was nothing, although Sava came up 90 cm larger, the higher level of Sava came down than the historical maximum. They held their hands in their pockets, they said – why did you come and tell Mr. Puzovic – why did you come? Perhaps you didn't want to talk to Mr. Puzovic either, perhaps you wanted to talk to a conference or a coffee cook in the Water Directorate, with which right do you say that the Prime Minister should not and should not come to the National Assembly because you can't talk based on facts, but only on insults?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15218	Thank you. Replica Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15219	Just to be clear, I think it's time to get back to the speaker list, I think.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15220	Then you're not on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15221	No, it's a replica, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15222	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15223	No one is against the prime minister coming to the Republic Assembly and talking to MPs, answering questions. No one is against doing this on Thursdays, Tuesdays or Saturdays, we were just looking for a special session, as it's called. We're not allowed to do that, we wanted to talk to people who are professional in the area, we're not allowed to do that. I don't think it's correct, without any bitterness in my performance today, to bring things up about how much anybody studied, when we have a situation in Majdanpek where we really are, we all agree, where it's a very difficult situation, right, and that we need all the professional people, those people who were, they were fixing the power line for me are heroes. Indeed, although your government has cut their salaries by 10%, it doesn't matter. Director of the EMS, Mr. Petrovic graduated at the age of 30 and what now? Is he a smaller hero because of that? Mr. Petrovic from the EMS, what? How many tens does he have, Mr. Granny? It's not right. What are you doing? I don't think he's saying anything, really. Don't do that stuff from someone's personal life, when no one here is attacking Mr. Wolf himself or anyone else. Why are you doing this? Unnecessarily. If we're looking for a session to determine without a doubt who's responsible for the failures you just mentioned, here, let's find out. What's the problem? Talk about an earthquake? Let's talk about the earthquake. We didn't run from the survey board about it, God forbid, especially what Mr. Markovic was doing on the Law on the Elimination of Floods, the one that performed the King. You know that's true. Don't, be consistent, really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15224	Thank you, MP. National MP Zoran Babic, legal replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15225	In order to talk professionally, there must be two professional sides. If you show me an evacuator, an expert in flood prevention, an expert in flood prevention, an expert in disaster in the Democratic Party, or at your parliamentary club, then I can accept that on the other hand there are professional people from public enterprises, but if someone who looks at it in that way, politically, somewhat and amateurally, and that you expect a profession or I don't know what, then it's really illusory. On the other hand, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, by coming here, with respect for the National Assembly, showed respect for the MPs, showed responsibility, responsibility for everything that is happening from the domain of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Stefanovic, I will show you, with the appeal to return, of course, on the subject of the agenda, dozens of Mr. Nikola Petrovic. Here are tens of Mr. Nikola Petrovic. Here, Mrs. Karavidic, tens of Mr. Nikola Petrovic, are at 50 metres high, on the cold, on the ice, risking their lives. Here are the tens. See where the dozens of Mr. Nikola Petrovic and the heroes are, and you're right, and they risk their lives to get jobs in Majdanpek. Look at the conditions. Is this the first rain, Mrs. Jerkov? This isn't the first rain, these are the Siberian conditions and the ice that bound the power lines. Twelve pillars of power went down. Twelve pillars of the power line fell and you expected to react in one second, like this, ordering from the warm hall of the National Assembly what should be done. Well, look at how many trees were torn down into the streets, or on the roads to get to those power lines. Why don't you tell me about it? These are the tens of Mr. Nikola Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15226	Thank you. We're going back to the agenda. The last speaker on the list is Zoran Babic. Do you want to use time? (Yes) (Branka Karavidic, from town: Replica. Ambassador Karavidic, let's use the time to control the session for a little bit. We talk more about education than we talk about loans. Here you go, MP, use your time, you're on the list, the last speaker on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15227	Thank you. Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers, I apologize to my colleague Branko Karavidic. I didn't mean, by mentioning the name, nothing offensive, but I wanted to answer a parliamentary question that wasn't addressed to me or to the Serbian Progressive Party, it was addressed to the "Electro Network of Serbia". She'll get Mrs. Karavidic these photos. He will get everything that is "Electro Network of Serbia", along with the director of "Electro Network of Serbia", Mr. Petrovic and all the heroes, and at this moment both today and yesterday, and in the days behind us, "Electro Network of Serbia", and all the people there are Serbian heroes. I mentioned that we are not involved in politics and that we are showing what is right and what is needed from the warm hall of the National Assembly, but from the face of the place, perhaps by cooking tea for these people, may bring them to ease their conditions, not that when they are at 20, 30, 50 meters high, when they risk their lives, they say, "Why didn't you do it before, why didn't you predict that it would rain and literally break 12 power lines?" Today we are discussing the draft law confirming the Treaty on the Guarantee for the Project from analog to the digital signal, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Protection of Audio-visual Heritage and the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See in the area of Higher Education. Of course, the SNS parliamentary group will support these three laws, as well as the law confirming the Loan Agreement, the Emergency Flood Recovery Project between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the bill mostly because of a transparent process, a transparent process in which it is located and how the government of the Republic of Serbia works. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the first time in Serbia's history, and many hardships and troubles have come to us, it is likely that something will await us from nature in the future and I am sure that we will work seriously and responsibly to make this damage as little as possible in the future, but what is done for the first time in Serbia's history is that a list of all interventions and a list of all state aid users, with the kind and amount of assistance, is published on the official Internet presentation of the Office. There's nothing to be ashamed of, there's nothing to hide. Very transparent both in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in front of the international community, which has helped us a lot, and in the future we expect further assistance, we want to show how these funds are being spent. For the first time in history, and there have been accidents in the past, the application of an open procurement procedure to eliminate the consequences of elemental disasters. Because we didn't want the noises that happened in the city of King, where one foundation was invoiced three times, so it was a different width, so the different length, because of that and the unintended use of many people in the former Kindritch Street in the King and today they can't go back to their buildings, and they don't have a roof over their heads. For the first time in Serbia's history, information on all public procurements carried out under the Law on the Elimination of Floods is published at an official Internet presentation by the Office. For the first time in history, a list of all individual donors, natural and legal persons, is publicly available at an official internet presentation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For the first time in Serbia's history, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the funds that are being collected from all the world's meridians, of all people of goodwill, of all Serbian and Serbian friends, but also beyond the borders of our country have been blended together and poured into one place, and this is the Office for Reconstruction and One Place, which is the Office for Reconstruction, spend and pass on to an open and transparent process. What's been arranged so far? The data I have is data that's a week old. Until a week ago, material aid has been paid and therefore I will vote in favour of this law, because we know that these funds will be spent in a transparent manner and that they will go to those who need it. Material aid has been paid for a total of 16,306 households across Serbia worth 3,89 billion dinars. Material aid in money to build a new house instead of building a house where building a house could not be obtained 78 families totaling 176,768,000 dinars. The donation provided the construction of 227 houses that have already been donated or will be donated to end-users by system key in hand. The construction of 224 houses for all families whose municipalities have issued a solution for building new houses is under way. Why don't you tell me who the donors are? Why not say who these people of goodwill have helped no family in Serbia, found by disasters both in April and May, but also in September, stays on the street, does not run out of roof over its head. One hundred and forty houses are from EU donations to 29 municipalities, 129 houses are being built at the end and immigration is expected in the next two weeks. Thirty-five new houses are from the donations of the United Arab Emirates, our friends, which some in this hall, but also in political life, want to drive them out of Serbia, but I am sure that after the project and Etyhad, after the Berograda on Water project, after such good deeds as they do, the eternal friendship between Serbia and the United Arab Emirates will be stronger and more stable. Twenty-five new houses are a donation to Kuwait, 25 houses are in Obrenovac and construction is near the end. Eleven new houses are the donation of "Pazova for the Most Threatened" in Baja Basta. Ten new houses from "Blic Foundation" and Television First in Obrenovac. Seven new houses are from France's donation to Obrenovac. Seven new houses are from Dragica Nikolic's donation, construction is near the end, etc. However, help is not only on that side, and it is not only that way. More than 15,000 households, meaning, no less all who have received state aid and who have been given solutions, will receive assistance in money and materials besides direct help, or work on rebuilding houses from EU donations, Austria, the United States, Switzerland, and through the organisation of the Red Cross Serbia, Karitas, Mercy, Adra and others. Only through the Red Cross did 15 thousand households receive a direct donation of 210 euros per house. Why don't we point out the individual stuff? The Serbian Progressive Party was with pride a few weeks ago, as much as we could collect, as much as we could under the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and in accordance with the Law on Finance of Political Activities, we collected the funds of 100,000 euros from our salaries, which were also reduced, such as reduced salaries and installers, and we took white techniques to every house in Tekia, whether they were refrigerators, whether they were stoves, whether they were machines, whatever, mostly people, no matter how much they were baptized, unlike those who were baptized, who put their hand in their pocket, putting money, we put our hand in our pocket to draw money and give those who were most vulnerable in these floods. It's not just houses, it's not just roofs over your head. The big problem was made during the floods and agriculture. In co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture, the office organised a branch of the screening seed for nearly 16,000 hectares, owned by nearly 10,000 small agricultural holdings. The same land was also provided for fuel, worth approximately 48 million dinars or about 320 tons of fuel. The implementation of the aid scheme is under way for the purchase of fertilisers, which will invest approximately 76 million dinars. Co-operation with the World Bank has provided funding for subsidies for farmers in 49 flooded municipalities. The program is worth $35 million. In addition to agriculture, energy has suffered major damage, major problems in the electricity system in electricity production, which the government of the Republic of Serbia is struggling with and the competent ministry. Co-operation with the World Bank has provided funding for a water pumping project from the co-haborate surface coal digging of the Tamnava-West Field. For this purpose, $30 million was provided, only to pump water from the coal mine of the Dark-West Field. The pump is up to now, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, and those experts who can talk about floods, only from that Western field of Tamnave have been pumped up by over 180 million cc's of water. Water has been pumped and coal exploitation re-exploited from the Velika Creni Kolubar surface spear. This is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, not just a debate, not just a story, but direct assistance that comes to the most vulnerable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to the most vulnerable in the electrical energy system, to the most endangered farmers, to all those people who have lost a lot in these floods, and some, to God, and all of them. The application procedure for Japan was initiated. In co-operation with the Japanese government, an agreement has been reached that Serbia applies for a 65m-euro loan instead of an initial 40m-euro loan. The total amount will be intended to be recovered in the energy sector, and above all to restore damaged and destroyed coal-exploitation equipment. Local infrastructure and I'd have to say a lot, I don't think I'd have that much time, to talk about all the things that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not just the moment when the floods hit us, which nobody wanted or wanted, but in those months that were after the flood, at the transparent process of collecting money, in the transparent process of spending that money, it's not a little bit. The total damage was estimated at over 1.7 billion euros. The total so far, grants and loans, amount to 520m euros. We still need a lot of things. I don't think we're going to get a lot of it and get some wild debates, especially with those flood experts, with studies of 12 years. We don't know how it's gonna go or when it's gonna be next. I am grateful to the people of Majdanpek for the patience, for all the suffering and suffering they have suffered in the past days, which no one has wanted either. But I would even more like to thank the responsibility, the timely reaction, the immediate reaction of the ESM people, primarily to Mr. Niko Petrovic, but also to all those people who, not asking for a day, not for a night, not for height, not for ice, not for snow, not for the trees that fell on the road, to get to the power line, to work hard for days and nights, so as not to provide people in Majdanpek with living conditions as soon as possible. There are these people, there are the conditions they've met. Don't turn your head the other way. These are citizens of Serbia, employed, yes, to those who, like us, as well as the people in the government, as well as people in other public enterprises, are reduced salaries due to the irresponsible policy you have led in the past, due to the eaten future in the past. Look at these people and don't wonder, don't hold a stopwatch in your hands and say: Why not faster, why not better? Look at the conditions they've been in, look at the snow and the ice. Look at the crashed power lines, 12 crashed power lines. Do you think it's a matchbox that's only brought to the location? Look at the ice that was on the wires. Do you think it's a matchbox that's being brought to a location somewhere and, here, it's done? Well, why didn't you sit there before? The same Mr. Nikola Petrovic was on the ground with his men yesterday, helping as much as he can, as he knows, helping these people. He came to Belgrade only when the power came to Majdanpek. Look at one of the 12 power lines that fell. These are 12, 15, 18 meters high power lines. Look at the ice that was on the wires. It's not the first rain that's come down. He can't do this rain with 10 centimeters in the diameter of the ice that was created on the wires. Look at what it looks like. Look at one of those 12 power lines as it's broken. Can we do that in a minute? How about that thing with the stopwatch in your hands that you held here in the National Assembly? Respect those who are responsible for their work, both the Prime Minister and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Majdanpek. Respect these people, look where they're standing. This is at 40 feet of power. At 18 meters in the cold, in the fog, they couldn't see each other from the ground, but they were doing their job responsibly while someone here in this room was counting the moments if it could have been better. From here out of the hot room, it could, on the spot, be next time. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15228	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if anyone who has not used his right under Article 96 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15229	Thank you, Madam President. I'm so glad my colleague Babic turned his head in the right direction today. Yesterday while the topic was asking parliamentary questions and my question was about the situation in Majdanpek, the entire SNS parliamentary group was...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15230	You didn't get your e-mails right...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15231	Please, if you let him...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15232	... But I have to react. Please be parliamentary, wait for me to say something.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15233	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15234	Will you? Please, you asked for the time per article of 96 and to talk about the subject. I understand that now you want to pull the line from yesterday. Please talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15235	Did the predecessor talk about the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15236	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15237	About the darkness?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15238	So, about the need to take...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15239	I'll talk about the same subject, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15240	Okay, fine. I'm not used to the voice, I'm not so raised. Here, tell me what you have, but about the subject, about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15241	About the darkness, about the loan?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15242	If you will, about higher education, about an agreement with the Holy chair. I know what the agenda is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15243	Yeah, I know what the agenda is. It's very interesting that this is how it reacts today. Today, they obtained photographs of themselves in good time. Yesterday, the topic was not interesting, and it's very interesting that someone from the very other part of Serbia is telling me who I am from Majdanpek...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15244	So you don't want to talk about the subject, you want to replicate. You're looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15245	I signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15246	Let's go after seven months so we know what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15247	Madam Chairman, you didn't register my application.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15248	How come I didn't register?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15249	I checked in right away while my colleague Babic was talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15250	You have no right to a replica. I thank you for discovering your intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15251	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15252	I don't know why you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15253	He repeated my name and last name several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15254	There's no one who hasn't heard. We also have the stenograms that I read – who is looking for the right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. Whoever doesn't have a Rules of Procedure, I'm asking him to come to the office, I've got an extra Rules of Procedure. You've reached out to article 96, and now you're looking for a replica. I ask everyone to read article 96. Thank you, really, only by Article 96, you haven't responded to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15255	I answered the line, but I knew I wouldn't get it, as I couldn't say yesterday what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15256	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Everyone got a line today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15257	Here, I'm looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15258	You can't look for a replica now. We're not at school.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15259	This is really amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15260	You are all serious and mature people voted for by Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15261	Of course the citizens of Serbia voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15262	I respect you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15263	I'm looking for a replica, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15264	I'd like to avoid being at the market. I'd like to be a little bit above that. I'm asking you again, on the basis of what word did you get to discuss the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15265	No, I'm looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15266	You don't want to. Is that right? You can't look for a replica right now, because you got it by Article 96.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15267	I knew it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15268	No, but you don't know the drill, and I'm very sorry. My role is not educational. The word has been made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, under Article 96? Would you please tell me in advance so we don't have such unkind scenes? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Yes. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15269	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister Ljajic, fellow MPs, we have here several agreements that are very important for the Republic of Serbia. Nothing is disputed about this, I think all colleagues agreed, that money should be taken on very favourable terms to resolve the effects of floods, above all in the energy sector, infrastructure and agriculture. That's a good thing. The Democratic Party supports that. But here we now had a few things that were one rush of demagogy that we were listening to here. I really expected, Mr. Babić, that with these photos, which are generally known, especially to people who live there, I see nothing controversial, no one will in any way reduce the efforts of the people of the "Electro Network of Serbia" to resuscitate the consequences of the storm, so let me call it, heavy weather, it wasn't rain, but you came here to the Assembly with photos to prove - what?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15270	Your Honour, you address Zoran Babic directly, which means you want a replica. I don't know what it's hard to say that you want a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15271	Please excuse me. He looked at me all the time, so I didn't feel called. Here, I'll look at you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15272	He looked not at you, but at Jerk's letter; for he spoke to her. He wasn't looking at you, I guarantee.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15273	Okay, that doesn't surprise me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15274	I know who he was talking to, because I know who used to talk about the effects of the flood.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15275	Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15276	I'll give you all the time in the world. Don't worry about anything, but talk to me and, please, you asked for article 96.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15277	So, Madam President, Mr. Honorable Babic, aside from the photos, I think he should have brought ice samples here, so we can check if that's exactly the ice that fell...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15278	So that's not in the agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15279	There's no deal, but there's no power lines. Do you understand? So we listened and watched the photos, so you weren't in the O.R., you saw Dusan Mihajlovic with the Legion in the photo, so we heard about the culture of agriculture. Please wait. Please, I understand your degree of tolerance, which is enormous, but apply it a little bit to the opposition, it won't be bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15280	Here, I'm applying to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15281	So, please, Mr. Babic, the esteemed colleague, Mr. Demagogogogy himself did not bring ice samples personally, because we need to determine if this is the sinister ice that was actually meant for Prime Minister Vukic, but he fell for Antic. That's what we need to see. The other thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15282	Now we're gonna take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15283	Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15284	Because this doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15285	Why? Let me talk about the agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15286	I have a second agenda than what the messengers say. I guess I'm mistaken.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15287	Then tell me to get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15288	Agenda: Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement, emergency flood recovery project, between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15289	Tell me to get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15290	Second point, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty, Project Switching From Analytical to Digital Signal, Between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15291	All right, tell me to get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15292	Third point, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Protection of Audio-visual Heritage and, fourth point, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See in the area of higher education. We've finished the list of speakers, we have to clarify, not because of us, I know you're all playing with the agenda, it's not a problem, and we've moved on to Article 96 that whoever didn't talk about the points of the agenda is using their rights and then replicating. So, please, you're looking for a replica and you have two minutes, you'll get two minutes, you'll be replicating a MP who mentioned you or a political party or someone...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15293	This is already going on...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15294	We'll get the time back. That's allowed to you and the previous MP, but you probably won't, because of the time, so it won't be two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15295	To cover it up, you're all right. Is that okay? May I continue? You're all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15296	You can't keep up with the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15297	Madam President, as an authorised representative, as well as any authorised representative in this room, I have the right to say everything I want to say about the topic, including the causal link, including the logical structures related to the topic, including the agreement with the Holy See...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15298	I don't agree with you, but please for a few seconds. I'll ask, even though I didn't mean to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15299	You didn't hear what I was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15300	You'll be very pleased. Since I don't understand you, and you don't understand me as chairman, that the session continues to be led by Mr. Igor Becic, because I disagree with this kind of debate during. I ask Vice President Igor Becic to lead and allow the MPs to discuss whatever they want in the time they have left, and I personally disagree with it. Here you go. Thank you. I'm just gonna give him brief instructions for the next one.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15301	Since I have now entered the O.R., we have Mr. Zoran Babic and Mr. Borislav Stefanovic reported. On what basis, Mr. Stefanovic? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I spoke for four minutes when the president decided to leave. ) Mr. Stefanovic, I have now entered the O.R. and I have in the system of the registered Mr. Zoran Babic and Mr. Borislav Stefanovic Mr. Stefanovic... [[Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: You are not giving a replica. I have 18 minutes left as an authorised representative.]] (Dear Shutanian's Domination from the scene.) Mr. Sutanovac, please, you have the habit of throwing, of threatening the bench, of harassing the chairman, of being a lawyer, of doing all that. I'd like to ask you, we're at the end of today's debate, if you don't do it. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "Who am I threatening?" ) Mr Stefanovic, I ask you - on what basis do you want to speak now? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I am an authorised representative and I received my word. I've been talking for two minutes. So you have 18 minutes left, Mr. Stefanovic. (Dear Shutanian's Domination from the scene.) Mr. Sutanovac, let me hear what Mr. Stefanovic wants. Mr Stefanovic, you want to use as an authorised representative of the MP, as president of the parliamentary group for another 18 minutes, to talk about the agenda. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Yes. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15302	I thank you again and the President of the Assembly. I'm so sorry she didn't understand, but now I see that you understand. So, the loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15303	I didn't understand, Mr. Stefanovic, what was said, and now you see that I... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15304	I see you understand. Will you let me talk today? Either you don't hear or you don't understand? I'm convinced you understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15305	I need to hear what you're saying so I can try to respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15306	Therefore, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development loan of 227.000,000 euros was granted under favourable conditions. It will be used to resuscitate the consequences of the catastrophic floods in May. We support it. We think the interest is good, too. So low enough for this to be really acceptable. What, anyway, we want to hear, we want to hear first of all who's going to be responsible for the failures in those floods? Who are the people who haven't done their job to the end? In our opinion, there is a very strong doubt that the directors of "Serbia" and director of "Belgradvoda" and people, such as Mr. Cučkovic, the president of Obrenovac municipality, and Mr. Sinisa Mali, who invited people to stay home when the break-in is on, etc. And so, we talked a lot about it, nobody alive, nor Mr. Puzovic who said that God is guilty of this situation, and now, of course, we're most interested in what is concrete, can the minister answer, what will be done specifically with 227,000,000? Why? Because we know that 180,000,000 cc's of water is pumped out of one of the spears and it's really a huge job that's been done. We want to know how much longer to do exactly, which firm, by which procedure will they get this job? Is it true that this job now has...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15307	Mr. Stefanovic, this is not a day for parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15308	I really don't understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15309	I'd like to ask you to return to your agenda. This isn't a day...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15310	Mr. Becic, if I spoke Chinese, you would interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15311	Mr. Stefanovic, it's Friday, so it's not Thursday and it's not ten o'clock...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15312	Do you understand that I have the right to speak in questionable form?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15313	I ask you again to explain the bill, not to ask questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15314	How can you violate the Rules of Procedure to this extent? You don't allow people. You're asking me to speak in categorical form...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15315	I'm asking you to return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15316	... Except? Do you know what that means? This is amazing. So you're defending the opposition now in question form to express itself?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15317	I don't want to give you a warning, but I'm gonna have to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15318	Why? There's no reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15319	I'm asking you to get back on the agenda. It's Friday. It's not a day to ask parliamentary questions. It'll be on Tuesday and you can do it. Please explain the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15320	Mr. Becicu, you have a minister sitting in front of you who is a guest here, who is not directly responsible for these matters but for another topic within the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15321	Mr. Stefanovic, you are a member of the Parliament, head of the parliamentary group, you know the Rules of Procedure well, I am convinced of that. You know that at any moment the bill can defend and explain any member of the government, so don't talk about what...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15322	Okay. Please, it means that you and I would understand each other to the end, and I'm not going to sit with you. I want to finally use these 17 minutes. You won't let me do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15323	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15324	I ask you to explain to me that the minister, in this case Minister Ljajic will defend something without me asking him. Come on, tell me now. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15325	Mr. Stefanovic, you have a bill, don't say that, the president read the agenda, so I don't read it again. (Dear Sutanovac, from place: Read again.) Mr. Sutanovac, I like to go with you in this way, but I don't think it's appropriate for the other MPs. Mr. Sutanovac, even though you haven't answered the word, you may be warned about what you are constantly doing in the National Assembly. Throwing from the scene, harassing other MPs. You can do this to me. I told you before that you can throw me as chairman at any moment, but do not disturb other MPs who want to hear what Mr Stefanovic wants to say. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Let him speak. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15326	Thank you. We have a clear law on a loan agreement that essentially has several parts -- let's say support for the energy sector. We suspect and indeed have a strong suspicion of honesty in supporting the energy sector, given the way our government has handled some of the crisis situations, let's say in Majdanpek. This raises the question of both the incompetence and the expertise of these people who really, not in the sense that someone can remove a day, two such a catastrophic situation, but now the question is -- how do we compare the power lines that were notoriously announced this summer that were placed in that part of eastern Serbia, this summer in their expensive print magazine of EMS and today what happened? So either those power lines that were advertised on the front page of their company magazine this summer weren't quality, as it said, or was that ice, Mr. Babic, whose sample you didn't bring, really the one that brought them all down from order? So it is possible and the question arises, were they well done and who was the supplier of elements for power lines, whose company and whether the director of ESM, Mr Petrovic might know these people? That's the question. As my question is, will this 227,000,000 funds that I need as a Assembly to approve, and I can't ask, be essentially used to additionally pump water from one of the kopova in the Colubara, and will this job, and I can't ask that, get the "South Bank" firm? And who's the "South Bare"? How is it possible that they're getting all these jobs all of a sudden, and they've never done that before? Those are questions, Mr. Ljajic. I know you don't know that. I'm sorry there are no people who can answer that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15327	Mr. Stefanovic, I'm telling you again that it's not a day for MPs' questions, I'm sorry that you've always been reading lately and they're telling you what they're delivering and then they don't... Check out what companies they are, what they do, muddle people needlessly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15328	I'm not muddy, I'm asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15329	I happen to be from Vojvodina, and I know very well about this company, which is a reputed company, which deals with these affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15330	Okay, I'm asking, okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15331	Mr. Stefanovic, get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15332	Mr. Becic, I respect your intentions indeed. You're trying in an appropriate way to run a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15333	You're just trying to attack people who don't have the opportunity to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15334	How did I attack them?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15335	You are attacking Mr. Petrovic, whose company in heroic efforts in inadequate conditions are trying to restore Serbia's energy system to the conditions that citizens should have.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15336	Mr. Becic, you don't understand. I don't understand why you react like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15337	I'm begging you to return to the agenda. Dragan Sutanovac throws it out of place. Mr. Sutanovac, I don't think that's your area. Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15338	Talk to me. Let the Shooter go. So I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15339	He's throwing Mr. Sutanovac. I have to react to his pitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15340	Isn't that right, Mr. Petrovic? I see you're nodding your head. (Dusan Petrovic from town: I don't know what this is about. That's not the point, Mr. Becic. You don't understand, perhaps, I repeat, you may not understand the essence of the parliamentary system. The apostle has the right to ask questions about everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15341	Yes, but also in the day for asking parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15342	That's not true. How do you interpret parliamentary democracy? This has never been seen before.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15343	Completely according to the Rules of Procedure, your right and opportunity and me as chairman, to restrict you from talking about the agenda. You don't want to talk about the agenda. You're running out of time, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15344	Please don't. I think it's easier to get us out of the assembly. It's easier to get us out. That's not true. What's on the agenda, say no reading?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15345	You know very well what's on the agenda, I don't want to, just before you got by the president exactly what are the points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15346	So let us state the DS position, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15347	Here you go. On the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15348	Do you understand that the only step away from this is to get the opposition out of the assembly? Don't you understand, Mr. Vienna? I ask you personally as a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15349	I don't want to throw anyone out, I just want to respect the Rules of Procedure and that you're talking about the agenda. Nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15350	Okay. Do you understand what it means to a representative of Serbian citizens, unlike the hero chosen, you say – you have no right to ask for him? You know what that means?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15351	You have the right to ask everything in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but I don't want people who want to re-establish the energy system in areas affected by an elemental accident and those people who are high...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15352	Well, you just said I wasn't right. Wait, so what do you mean? Well, who touches heroes? Well, to them, you cut Mr. Becic's wages by heroes. Well, you cut their wages. Well, who's touching them?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15353	Well, here you go. With your speech, muddle this company, muddle these people and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15354	Well, how do I touch them? Well, it's not Petrovic on the power line up. Oh, my God. I'll try to get back to, if you'll let me, get back to, as you say, the speeches that someone else writes. It's a lie. Be careful, when someone from SNS in Serbia says they're laughing, because you know they're reading essays here. How can you accuse us of that? We are putting into question the form, and this is the first time in any parliamentary democracy to limit itself to a national representative to speak in questionable form. If I'm not speaking in questionable form, you have the right to say I'm muddling someone, then you're right. So if I'm not speaking in questionable form, then I must be muddying, here, I'm telling you, but that's not what I'm gonna do. I'm asking-- why this company? I'm asking-- is that company gonna do it again? Why? Because citizens want to know what 227m euros will go to, because they want to know. As we discussed in the congregation, where did the funds go with the number 1003? We still don't have an answer. Because when the esteemed colleague Babic is listed earlier, list all donors in Obrenovac, just don't list "Delta". And why not "Deltu"? Do you understand that these donors, no matter what I think of them, some of them, say "Delta", are nothing positive, but these people have made more houses than the government. Well, yes, that's what Marko Blagojevic said, who moves, the man in your trend, just so calendarly when what's to be done. And everything later and later and later. Our right and obligation is to ask where the funds are specifically. It is, people, a commitment among Serbian citizens. If you take that away from us in any way, it is the beginning of the end of Serbia, because then it will no longer be this Republic of Serbia, this will be something else. Let me raise, on behalf of the Democratic Party, a voice against it and the strongest protest against trying to do so. You have to last 20 minutes. It's not 20 minutes God knows what most of us have against minutes, but that doesn't mean we have less right. If we have less right, then we all have a serious problem. Everyone. So my question was the question of the minister sitting there, he has the right to get a question and I have the right to get an answer, right, Minister Ljajic? There is nothing controversial about it, there is no offense to people who have trained the network in Eastern Serbia with superhuman efforts, please. No one mentioned them in any negative way in this room. No one, on the contrary. I find that this government has reduced these people's salary 10%. Is that true? Yes, it is. Is that bad? Well, bad, terrible. What kind of message is that? I'm talking about the director, well, that's not right. What are you talking about the director? Well, he's got a raise on his salary.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15355	Mr. Stefanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15356	Here, now there's something wrong again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15357	Now I'm telling you again, so all the time you've been talking to me, I don't have the pleasure of sitting here in a warm room while people out there are fighting to get people to be able to be a decent man and I don't want to replicate with you like this. Please, right now, either you're going back to the agenda or I'm going to take a break, so decide what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15358	So, when I mention Petrovic, you react. Okay, I agree, it's demagogy. So come out and do it yourself. Please don't take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15359	I'll take a break, if you don't get to the agenda, I'll give you a break right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15360	I'm asking you not to take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15361	I'm asking you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15362	Yeah, I'm just stuck asking a question, better this way. You're right, I don't even know what's wrong with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15363	I don't want to sit here in a warm room like you, and muddy those people out there fighting in inhuman efforts to get the energy system working.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15364	So, we want to hear from the government, from the minister now where will these funds specifically go? How much of these funds will be used on spears? How specific of these funds and for which projects will they go to destroyed agricultural holdings? So these are the things we want to hear. Otherwise, we absolutely support it. We're also asking to determine the responsibility for the floods, to determine where the funds, which have so far been allocated, have gone. That's the right of the citizens of Serbia, that's what we're asking you to tell us. We ask to be clarified, there is not a resolute minister of education, to explain to us an agreement with the Holy See in the area of higher education, because this agreement, in essence, needs to answer a few questions that are not just questions of academic integrity, so I'm not going to talk about it now, really, but the Vatican as one, to say, someone here said a little earlier, a serious institution, from the SNS. It's not an institution, but the Holy See also has a lot of experience in something called indulgence and has experience in something called a puck of plagiarism or plagiarism. Maybe there's a co-operation in the area of higher education. Perhaps cooperation in the sense of giving Noah chaos or learning about how to redeem sins, i.e. Indulgence in the domain of higher education. Here, let's say, I'd like to hear it. Is the applicable redemption of the sins of the aposteurs within the framework of the pac, so peace, plagiarism? Pax plagiarum allows indulgence of sins in the domain of higher education. It's just like when the esteemed Srdjan Dragojevic, a respected fellow MP, is talking about culture today, the true link, Mr. Chairman, so he doesn't say they've thrown us out of the draft and ballet and classical music, and introduced the circus. That's true. That is what Minister Ljajic knows and probably is not his right and I hope he will try to convince Minister Tasovac not to. Well, then he's talking about how De Helington was, and, you know, he's telling people who think -- where Era Ojdanic is, where's the connection. So I'm talking about pac plagiarum and indulgence, so now, you know, they'd tell me something, but I don't know if they're sure what I said, but it's easier for me not to argue with you, because now, you see, normally let me say everything I have. You see, all you have to do is be creative and be unburdened by the fight, because nothing good has ever done you any good. Just very precise questions, not demagogy. So, please, further clarifications, please, Minister, if you know, of course. In your domain, I don't really dispute that you're trying, but tell us, at least part of this 227m-euro money where it will primarily go? Is that for extra depletion of the dig, which I think is very important, is that part of it specific to saving agricultural property, is that perhaps for some water fortifications? I think it would be correct to get a certain, at least minimal specification. Nothing more. And possibly, the knowledge of Minister Ljajic, if there are any about it...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15365	Time, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15366	How's the weather?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15367	Well, I've been told 17 minutes, it's been 17 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15368	Well, wait, at least six I kept my mouth shut and waited to hear from you. Well, be correct. You have an associate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15369	You got three minutes more, so you got here...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15370	And you think I've already used three minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15371	You used everything to Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15372	All right, let me finish my sentence. Mr. Ljajic, if you can answer where the money has gone so far collected for the recovery of the flood, especially 1003, and when will the citizens of Serbia hear it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15373	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. For the word of it, Mr. Minister, we must first go to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15374	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm advertising both 106 and 107 and 109, especially 109, because you were obliged to take away your word and give notice to a small-time speaker. Such a malignant way, particularly offensive to the Holy chair and to all perhaps Roman Catholics, after all, is indeed something that is scandalous in this country. If we really want to be honest, well, at least the Holy chair didn't recognise Kosovo's independence, and someone who's a diplomat and who's acting like that had to have a little more diplomatic tactics. Of course, let's not talk about what kind of malignancy someone's been saying about people who, just like you just said, are currently heroes and who are trying to save Majdanpek and everything that we have left in the legacy of them who have caused us this kind of chaos in the state and that's why we have so many problems in our entire infrastructure today. You were really obliged to take away his word, not to listen to such nonsense and, of course, to give him a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15375	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The very expression of face and smile as he spoke some sentences tells Serbian citizens more than I could speak. I mean Mr. Stefanovic's smile. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Srdjan Kružević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15376	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank my predecessor for leaving number 108, since we have worked out 106, 107 and 109. Mr. President, I'd like to warn you that we haven't talked about the agenda here in the Assembly for a long time today. If you would allow me, I would take the opportunity to draw attention to the MPs, not alluding to any individual, so that it might be time for us to stop giving the strongest criticism in Serbia when someone in Serbia needs motivation to bring things into order. This may sound a lot like that in the global world, but I'm alluding to eastern Serbia and the part we heard about yesterday and today. In fact, if we say that the state is unable to do certain things, we directly mention the installers who are employed in the "Electro Networks of Serbia", I, from the experience I have in the electricity system, can tell you that these are one of the best installers in Europe. The presence of Mr Petrovic and the complete management of the EPS must in this situation be for every praise, for the simple reason why giving motivation to these people on the ground at this time can only be commendable. Those who don't understand, please don't comment on such things. Definitely, if there are any problems and some misunderstandings, you should warn that such issues are being asked in the day for questions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and not once a minister who is not even resolute in the area, and especially the president of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15377	I thank you, Mr. Kruzhevich. I may have exceeded my ability as chairman, but I cannot allow, when I know and when I see that Mr. Petrovic, along with his installers, that Mr. Antic, as minister, is even risking his life for a second time, and because of the situation in which some parts of Serbia are due, has a threat to his life, that some MPs are thus expressing themselves to these heroes who are currently working for the citizens of Serbia. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (No) Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Stefanovic, you don't have a chance. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: I report to the Rules of Procedure. ( b) When has the Rules of Procedure been broken? (Borislav Stefanovic, from place: Multiple times. ) You must report immediately after a done breach of the Rules of Procedure. Did I violate the Rules of Procedure at this point? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Yes. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15378	Article 27 — Headship of the Assembly, and Article 107. Why? Because it's been said several times, and unfortunately you've confirmed that anyone has offended the heroic monters working at high altitudes and under difficult conditions. First of all, that's not true, that's not what anyone said. The second thing, a serious accusation that I have offended the Vatican, which did not recognise Kosovo, although the Emirates have confessed among the first, but come on. I didn't insult the Vatican, please. First, my colleague Djukanovic knows so much Latin and knows what I said. On the contrary, I have made their immeasurable contribution to world wisdom and culture... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15379	Mr. Stefanovic, you're denying yourself right now. You said and you said that he was directly injured by the Rules of Procedure, and you are reporting on that speech or on the exhibition that Mr Djukanovic had before Mr Kružević. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: You broke it because you said – I can't listen to you talk... ) I am telling you right now that I cannot let people who are heroic for days at their height and inhumane efforts risk their lives working for the citizens of Serbia, we are sitting in a warm room and in a negative way and in negative connotations mentioning these people. Let me have the right to state my opinion. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Rasim Ljajic. Excuse me, Mr. Minister. The People's Messenger Kružević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15380	Please help me, since I haven't been able to find a member in a short time where I'm not well understood. I didn't mention absolutely no installers, nor did I say their heroism that can't really be killed at this point, but I ask you to just skip this part of the debate and even mention things that happen in real conditions, when there could have been an emergency in individual municipalities, not to think about people who are 30, 40, 50 meters tall about whether we in the Assembly are discussing whether they're doing well or not doing well. The smallest wind can bring down a power line. The smallest wind can cause a disaster that can lead to the loss of human life. Please finally understand what I'm saying. I pray you don't talk about this, first because it's not a topic, and secondly because at this point, it's not the time. Thank God, we have a session, so we'll talk about these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15381	I thank you, Mr. Kruzhevich. I've been trying all this time and I'm asking the MPs of the opposition exactly what you're saying. Once again personally as a man, as chairman, I pray that at this time we do not talk about people who are heroically struggling to return Serbia's energy system to office. The word has Dr Rasim Ljajic, minister of government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15382	I'm going to talk about what I know, and I know not because this is my profession or my portfolio, but because I was getting ready for this session. So, 227,480,000 euros or 300 million dollars were agreed as a loan to the World Bank under the agreement, and this project has, you've heard that multiple times in today's debate, four components. Each of these components has been agreed and each dinar, or dollar of this agreement, is intended for a specific item in this contract. So of these four components, the largest part of the funds goes to the sector that has been hit most and has suffered the greatest damage. It is about 488m euros in damage to the energy and mining sectors. Therefore, 157.1 billion euros have been allocated to this sector as well. Of this, the aid for importing the 119.8m-euro profession to prevent the energy crisis in the coming winter. In order to restore the distribution network and supply of equipment for the network, 14.3m euros should be allocated. So it's back together with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Also, to pump water from Tamnava, what you asked about, 23m euros are foreseen. The second sector, agriculture -- 53.1m euros, again the second sector that suffered the biggest damage of 228m euros. These are the funds for farmers, i.e. incentives for farmers. Third sector, improving flood protection infrastructure – 16.7 million and two items. From this section for the purchase of goods, services and work to reconstruct the priority infrastructure network one – 14.5m euros and 2.2m euros will be financed technical assistance to improve flood protection capacity. The fourth sector, a reserve for new elemental disasters -- no funds are foreseen, but the possibility has been left in accordance with this agreement, again in agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to seek a relocation of funds for this component if necessary, and we believe it will not. Therefore, each dinar of these 227,480,000 euros is foreseen according to these paragraphs as they are both given here and as indicated in the agreement. Finally, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development exercises control and control over the spending of these funds and the realization of the entire loan.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15383	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. (Branka Karavidic, from the post: Replica on Mr Babic's exposure. ) Mrs Karavidić, I ask you and you have had an offer from the President of Parliament to share another Rules of Procedure on Work. I'm asking you to accept that offer. Mr. Babico, you're registered? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15384	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to answer three questions, but also ask two questions. I agree that this is the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15385	In accordance with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15386	Of course, according to the agenda. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: It's not Thursday today.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15387	Mr. Sutanovac, please don't. You have a habit, you may still regret your role as minister of the military, and you think you can communicate with the president and with the MPs from the bench. Please sign up for a word and then you can talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15388	No, we're used to it from Miri, root wolf. Is this the local community of Miriovo, so this is how you communicate, Mr. Chairman? If Mirie's, new, old, okay, maybe it's the root, I'm not used to talking that way, but I'll listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15389	Here you go, Mr. Granny, and I asked Mr. Shutanovec not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15390	It is amazing when every exposure and everything that I just said was done and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, with the help of friends from all over the world and from the European Union, from the Emirates, from Kuwait, from France, wherever we could give our hand, wherever we came across welcome, where we have friendly relations, wherever answers are given, it is considered demagogy. Is it the job of the MP of the people to, in particular, the MP of the SNS to come to parliament and be silent or just to turn one cheek and the other cheek? I don't think so. As it is not demagogy to tell what has been done with tasks that need to be done in the future. I thank you, Mr. Ljajic, for giving us answers to questions. There's only one thing I'd like to point out. All that has just been asked as a question and as concerns, the bill states, in the light of the bill's proposal they write and the components, and where they will be spent to every dinar, to every euro cent, because this government of the Republic of Serbia is referring to the assembly's clear drafts of the law. We're not hiding anything. Why did someone worry about the procedures, and how will public procurement procedures be carried out? I said that for the first time and I will repeat, and accuse me of being a demagogy, but it is true, that for the first time in Serbia's history, the list of all users of state aid with species, the amount of assistance is being announced at the official Internet presentation of the office, for the first time in Serbia's history, and where luck is that it was in the King, there would be no justice now. Application of the open procurement procedure to the removal of the consequences of natural disasters. For the first time, information on all public procurements and those so far made and those to be done in the future shall be conducted in accordance with the Law on the Elimination of Floods and shall be published at an official internet presentation. Then when you say something like that in the National Assembly, it's demagogy. No, don't talk about it. Demagogy is also a given hand and let us then create a survey board, a survey committee that will deal with spending these funds, but also with spending resources on Yashi Tomic, spending funds in Mionica, Kralje, as well as spending on former previous budgets on the walls, and ending for salaries. Where's that responsibility? It's easy to crucify Mr. Puzovic here now. Why is it that the money that the previous governments are, and that's nice, Mr. Vukic as Prime Minister said -- I don't want to think about the way someone took that money home, but by spending it on wages, which was spent in cars, which was spent in an incorrect way, and not in a bed, whose responsibility is that? Let's get that board on board, too. Let's see where these funds are spent, and they're meant to build the wells and defend against the floods. Is that demagogy or responsibility? I think it's a responsibility, but we're not gonna get an answer. Or the answer will be, no, we need some other survey committee to deal with what the "Serbian" secretaries were doing at the moment. The next thing is amazing, and we're doing a good part of the day with one company today, one public company and the public company and that company "Electro Networks of Serbia", a target is one man who successfully runs the "Electro Network of Serbia". This success has the same amount, and this success is in fact the reason for the attack on "Electro Networks of Serbia" and the results that they achieved were the sum of a billion and 570 million dinars, how much "Electro Network of Serbia" with such leadership, with heroes from Mr. Nikola Petrovic, to the monter or from the monter and to Mr. Nikola Petrovic, achieved in 2013. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this money has not been spent on any thirteen salaries, for no Olympics, has been returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget, has been returned to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Public enterprises are also founded to make profits for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What we're going to talk about here, which is that this amount of a billion and 570 million dinars will be paid back to the budget and returned to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, from that same ESM, from those same people headed by Mr Petrovic, and you can see that the microphone is not now being turned off, this year, and we will be discussing it in February of next year, there will be a sum of three billion dinars. Why is everything that is successful in our society a target? Why is everything good in our society a target, why do we have to whisper everything that goes well because of petty political, political points? Of course I have a question, I guess it's about time. Ask Mr. Chairman, these new attorneys "Delta" and Mr. Miskovic have changed many of them in the last year and a half and two days, whether they know that the lawyers are on strike, that they won't mind me perhaps from the Vojvodina Bar, because of this defence of Miskovic and "Delta" in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, but also elsewhere. But even when we are talking about some companies, there is an action, but this action is always answered by reaction, the South-Bed company was mentioned whether or not it participated, in any case EMS achieved the results of valuable attention and valuable giving of the hero labels of all employees in the "Electro Network of Serbia". Speaking of these questions, why do those who wonder, what is South-Bird, and I only know about geographical South-Birds, do they know what it is and who Wilobfarm LTD is from Linosol or Paytn Medical, or Mr. Bzik, and how it's possible that you're supplying a bit of medicine to the state, and you're building a little bit after that in the afternoon with the same minister of the building in Belgrade. Let's talk about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-05-0.u15391	Thank you. Time's up. Since we've exhausted the list, and representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who hasn't used the right of Article 96. Rules of Procedure, does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby conclude the joint Single Search on the draft laws referred to in points 2, 3 and 4 and 5 of the agenda. We move on to a joint single search on the proposal for a decision on public competition rules for the selection of candidates of members of the programme council of the public media institution "Radio Television of Serbia", the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the National Bank of Serbia, the Proposal for a decision to amend and decide on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for decisions under points 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda, before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that the time per Article 192 is consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they have already done so to report immediately for a word in accordance with the order of the MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a decision on the right to conduct a public competition for the selection of candidates of the Programme Council of the Public Media Institute "Radio Television of Serbia", on a proposal for a decision to amend and supplement a decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Decision amending the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Does the Proposer, or representatives of the Proposer, want a word? (No) Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search, no one filed a statement. Since there have been no reports on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) I am concluding a joint Single Search on motions for decisions under items 6-9 of the agenda. Thank you. We'll continue work Monday at 10.00 hours. I'm sorry, I didn't have my 10th item on the agenda here, so I'm moving on to the motion for a resolution of a member of the National Educational Council, that's the 10th item of the agenda. Before opening a single search, I remind you that in accordance with Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the representative of the motionor, the MP of the people, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, want a word? (No) Since we do not have a list of speakers and registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. Thank you. Continuing Monday at 10.00 hours.
