ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16834	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy, Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16835	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, I will ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the President and Minister of Finance, as regards the excessive, or enormous borrowing of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The total debt of the Republic of Serbia on 31 November 2014, according to the Ministry of Public Debt Administration of the Republic of Serbia's Ministry of Finance, is 22 billion 737m euros, or 28 billion 306m dollars. It is the record responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, in its history the highest responsibility, and that is the highest duty since 2000. In 2000, according to the same report by the Public Debt Administration, the debt in 2000 was 14 billion 167 million, the same debt, almost the same debt was at the end of 2011 14 billion and 787 million dinars. However, since the government's arrival, namely this coalition to power, the debt has increased by 7.5 billion and has reached 22 billion 286m euros. It's a record responsibility produced by this government. Looking at the same report, which is on the site of this administration, the participation of public debt in the GDP of the Republic of Serbia, was 45% in 2011 compared to the social gross product, and now at the end of November 2014, it is 69.2% of the social gross product. Therefore, the public debt, i.e. the debt of the Republic of Serbia, increased by an incredible 24% and exceeded the legal maximum debt prescribed by the law relating to public debt. So the Serbian government not only raised its debt by 7.5 billion euros, but also exceeded the legal amount of debt by 24%. As an illustration of the government's irrational behaviour in debt, here is the report by the DRI, which says the commission due to delays in withdrawing agreed loans for which the state guarantees were granted to Serbia amounted to 906 million dinars in 2013. So, not only are you in charge, that is, the government of Serbia is in charge, and you have ratified these duties, but you did not withdraw the loans in time, and therefore you pay for enormous foams, because you probably didn't have realised projects, and you were in debt. I ask the Serbian government what it will do in the next period to end its borrowing, since these days we have announcements of new borrowings from Chinese partners, because no one comes here to give money, but to lend loans?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16836	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16837	One question for you, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16838	It's been five minutes. You'll ask me next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16839	About the opening of the bridge, since only SNS deputies were invited...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16840	I don't know what to say. I didn't call, I'm not on the organisational committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16841	By all accounts, you have nothing to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16842	Everyone is welcome as far as the President of Parliament is concerned. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16843	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the government of the Republic of Serbia, a question for the Ministry of Finance, Mr Vujovic. We're at the end of 2014. What I'm interested in is how much did she owe us, our country, the government of DS and Mirko Cvetkovic? What loans have they taken? Under what conditions are they taken? How many next budgets for both 2015 and 2016 and for many years to come will these loans be charged? What financial institutions have taken the most important ones, for which projects? If we know that Corridor 10 is Scadar on Bojana, we know when we took and ratified loan agreements here, which were meant to be designed to build Corridor 10, and we are in 2014, when Corridor 10, unfortunately, is not yet completed, although this government has also shown great agility and the largest number of kilometers of Corridor 10 has been completed during this Government of the Republic of Serbia. Where did those funds go, if we knew that we only had meadows from Corridor 11? The expropriation is not complete, but it has therefore entered into the obligation to expropriate itself and that workers are introduced to construction sites and huge pens have been paid to both Azerbaijan and other companies that have worked, although expropriation has not been able to end physically during that period. How many pens did the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic pay for at the time? What new values did we have for those four years? What's over? I know it pisses someone off in this room, I know they'd like us to have some collective amnesia. What about public enterprises? I ask Mr Vujovic to answer how much all Serbian citizens have cost in restructuring, which due to ignorance, irresponsibility, intricacy of the former regime were just pushed into restructuring and thus their business, where they did not have to pay taxes or obligations to the state, or obligations to public enterprises, any obligation, how much did they burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia, burden the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Another question, how many times has the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and DS and those who are now benefiting had to be in charge of increasing salaries in public enterprises by 68% in 2008 just to win the election? Those who had no idea, those who had no politics, those who had no face to go to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, had to pay the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to bribe them to get some votes. How much has this burdened those budgets for that year and how much has this burdened the future generations? It's one of those who's now worried about being in debt, because then they'd be serving the debts they made, and I'm asking that question because of those we had to cut our pensions by 31%, which is why we had to cut public sector wages. It's been, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have eaten the future. I had a desire to ask another question. I had a desire to ask a question that I would ask on Tuesday from the culture field, in the cinema area, in the area you've ruined, just what they're getting. They sold all the cinemas in Belgrade without asking if they would continue to work? Because some people...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16844	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16845	... They have to go into private property and take risks, not get criminal charges, because you've sold something by thinking about your profits, not the sequel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16846	The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16847	Thank you, Madam President. I think what I'm going to ask is somehow on the trail of what Mr. Babic is asking for the previous period, so I hope that we can get all the information on all the borrowings. My question is addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not sure if we should ask the prime minister, since he's already tried several times to avoid answering that question, so let's make it the Ministry of Finance or Business, so let's be the Government, so let the ministries who think they're able to answer that question give an answer, and I think it's very important that we find out. In fact, yesterday or two days ago, I am not sure, the proposal for a law on the takeover of the company "Air Serbia" a.d. Belgrade's obligations towards legal and physical persons on the basis of the services provided by goods and the conversion of these obligations to the public debt of the Republic of Serbia has arrived to us. The team will also be working on budget rebalances by the end of the year. Among other things, because under the bill of this law, which this assembly majority obviously intends to adopt, the planned rebalancing of the occasion, and we will be obliged, when the law is passed, to pay half of this new debt by 31 December 2014, up to one half of the total amount of the obligation set out in Article 2 of this Act, and the other half by 31 March 2015. My question is, where did we get the funds? We are obliged here to return, as much as I had the opportunity to see and add, although it is in various currencies, about 200 million euros. Namely, we will be obliged to repay the debts of "Air Serbia" in the middle course of the National Bank of Serbia in the following currencies: 9,349,334,841 dinar, 23,540,644 euros, 74,730,704 US dollars, 527,327 dirhams, that is about 125,000 euros, 2,611 Australian dollars, 185,151 converted stamps, 472 Bulgarian leva, $3, 0110 Canadian dollars, 361.228 Swiss francs, 736,164 Danish crowns, 415,451 British pound, 461, 322 Macedonian money, 1,631 Norwegian crowns, 1,305.943 Russian rubles, 1,193,632 Swedish crowns, 117,935 reality, this is a means in Saudi Arabia, and 7,697 Tunisia dinars and 614 Turkish liras. My question is how many of us are going to end this contract with Ethyhad? We have concluded in this assembly, in fact the Assembly has confirmed a proposal for a co-operation agreement with the United Arab Emirates. We are deeply convinced that he is anti-constitutional. Since that job, citizens have seen the sale of a hotel in Kopalnik for 600 euros per square... What are the MPs doing? I really can't talk. (Bouting in O.R.) Is today a working day in the congregation? What's this about? My question is, are we finally going to pay for that contract... President, I can't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16848	I ask the messengers to be quiet, hard to work with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16849	It's not that hard. It's impossible anymore. My question to the government of the Republic of Serbia is how much will Serbia end up costing a contract with Etyhad? Total savings from the pay cuts to the educators...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16850	Time. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mirjana Dragas, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Mladen Grujic, Momo Colaković and Miroljub Stankovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the sixth item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Slobodan Homen, Snezana Malović, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Neđo Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Gordana Čomić and Borislav Stefanovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16851	Thank you, Madam President. I assume you know it's about article 27, which I'm advertising. Please take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and provide us with conditions for work. Just before I spoke, I couldn't hear myself. Members of the SNS, they've been quieted down for a while because they got out of the O.R., but, please, we can't do this. It's my only request and intervention, and I think you see it, too, that it can't be done in these conditions. You've warned them, obviously unsuccessfully, and if today is a really rough day, let it be said that we're not even trying to do it. Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16852	Can I answer that, or do you want it summed up? Article 27, that the President takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, convenes the session, represents the National Assembly, the Presidency and other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. I think I've done everything in my power to make the atmosphere in parliament appropriate and that we can work. It's quiet now. I didn't even react when some MPs were making a very loud throw at the question of MP Zoran Babic, because I don't think I should act like I'm in school and say something to grown-ups all the time. But you're right, there was a lot of noise. We'll continue to work in a perfectly appropriate tone. Today is, of course, a work day. We have a law of certain holidays when parliament does not work, or when we agree to have an unworkable day. If you want, we'll vote? (No) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16853	Dear President, I'm advocating Article 87 and 107. In fact, Article 87 refers to the working time of the National Assembly, and Article 107 speaks of the reputation of the National Assembly. In article 87, which refers to working hours, there is no talk of excursions during working hours, nor is it said that some MPs give the quorum and then go to some party events afterwards. I ask you, President, did the other parliamentary groups, the heads of Parliament's groups, receive an invitation to open a bridge today opened by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of China, which is the special merit of the SNS MPs to be met by buses outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and will not participate in this debate and of whose money have these buses been paid? They knew about the bridge four days ago, until no one knew, and now we're going to sit here and talk to ourselves about accepting our amendments, while they're going on a trip. What kind of way is that? Where does the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that MPs can go to party events or excursions during working hours? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: What party event? It is a party because only one party goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16854	Please, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16855	If it weren't for a party, only one party would go, but MPs of the SPS, JS and SDS and DS and from all other parties would be invited. Only SNS representatives were invited. It's a party event. Except for the board you set up for that bridge you didn't do.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16856	Thank you very much. You haven't talked much about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You probably wanted to raise your voice to me and everyone here. That's what I have to figure out. As far as working hours are concerned, he writes – according to the rule Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18.00 with a one-hour break. As a rule, and that's very clear to you as a lawyer what it means. The president can establish a second working time. No outings are scheduled or planned. I'm going to take that as something extracurricular that you wanted to take out, I don't know on whose account. As for the call, I really don't know what it's about. Here, as President of Parliament, I invite you all to come to the opening of the bridge today. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I did not prepare. I don't know what it takes. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Zastava, sandwiches. All right. This is a very important event for our country, and as far as I know... (Janko Vesenović, from the place: That's why we wanted to come. I'm sure you'd like to come. I don't even know anything about those buses. If you want someone to answer you honestly, and I'll ask around, so I'll answer you, but you didn't ask me a question, you asked me a violation of the Rules of Procedure. As a kind of lawyer, you know you didn't ask me a question, but you asked us to discuss Article 87, regarding the dignity of the National Assembly and of the 107. Nothing's hurt, we're here doing our job right. As far as I can see, an extremely large number of MPs are in the hall and the SNS parliamentary groups you said were empty. If I go out in ten minutes, believe me, I have a number of obligations, don't refer to what you're talking about, but I'll definitely attend to something later. I'd be honored. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16857	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Madam President. I'm not going to ask you to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Article 107, dignity has been violated. Where are, on which trip, on which picnic are the MPs of the former regime's parties? On which picnic are these empty benches both today and tonight and last night and yesterday when there were more ministers here in the National Assembly than MPs of the former regime. What picnic are they at? What day-to-day picnic are they at? We can see that he's flirting in the National Assembly, having breakfast, having dinner at the National Assembly. He doesn't attend here, and then time is measured and measured where SNS MPs are. Is that some habit from the previous regime, a dictatorship of what we can't do? What's this? Should I be afraid of Mr. Janko Veselinovic as a citizen of this country? These are dangerous claims, dangerous tendencies that the MP, the citizen of this country, has no freedom. I can freely ask, these empty benches of former regime parties insult citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party is here at midnight and noon. It is not difficult for us to work and at eight o'clock in the morning, if it is difficult for you to excuse us, we will work because Serbian citizens expect it from us. We will not ask from warm benches – why Zaječar, Negotin or Krajina received earlier electricity. No, we'll be in the field, but we'll be in the National Assembly Hall, but it's a violation of dignity to ask, not turn around and look at those empty benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16858	Article 107 speaks of the dignity of the congregation. I can only repeat what I said that all MPs are responsible for their conduct in this House and whether they will come or not to come to work, discuss. If you'd like to make a statement in the voting day. No, I don't. Thank you. I forgot to ask Mr. Veselinovic if he wanted us to come forward. No thanks. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16859	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I'm advocating Article 103 of Section 7 and 8. To remind you, these attitudes speak, when a member of the Parliament in the advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure clearly abuses it, chairing the time that the MP has abused by advertising the Rules of Procedure, he has the right to refuse from the time of the Parliament's group. So, since there's been talk of a bridge here, of a must, here I am not going, it's voluntary. So it's not an army. Since there were talk of buses, etc. I suggest that the time for misappropriation of the Rules of Procedure is denied to the MP's group, but I have an understanding of your behaviour, which you do not punish the opposition, in that I support you. My proposal is to extend the exposure time to Mr. Janko Veseinovic, to allow him maximum, because the more he says, the better it is for us. In the end, no matter what some buses are talking about, I'm really sorry, and I'm asking Mr. Babic to order a van for a parliamentary group that has abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure because everyone will stand in it. I'll have a car, too. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: The one of 100,000 euros can. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16860	Thank you, I didn't understand. You see the messenger throwing away, and you're looking for something for me to do. I can't. We're all grown-ups, everybody takes it out of the house or doesn't take it. That's my sincerest answer. That every time I play the grandma horn or the teacher who's always gonna yell don't and punish me, that's not what I want. At the cost of bringing in someone else who's always gonna punish someone, yells and warns to act like one or the other. If there was a possibility of taking time, you were aware that a press conference would then be held and that it would be declared the supreme dictator in this country who would not allow two minutes and a few seconds to be used. That's not what I want, if you think I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure and we're gonna do it by voting. No, I don't. Thank you. On what basis are you answering? (Branka Jankovic, from town: Replica. ) No replica, only the injuries of the Rules of Procedure were so that they could not replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're starting work. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. The word has been given by MP Zivan Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16861	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, I am sorry that the proposer of this amendment is not present, may give some further explanations. One brief analysis of this amendment. The amendment mainly supports what is set out in the proposal, as proposed by the parliamentary group, or 130 SNS MPs. However, there is also one newspaper in this amendment in paragraph 2. Namely, the proposer suggests that executive trusts in an executive procedure in which the executive debtor, Republika Srpska, is obliged to require the Chamber to determine the executioner to whom a proposal for enforcement will be submitted on the basis of a credible statement. The executing chamber shall verify within a period of no more than 15 days with a competent court, in which a decision on enforcement under which enforcement is proposed, whether the financial claim of the executive trustee in the previous proceedings before the court is settled. Here there is God's concern for state property, for the property of the Republic of Serbia, and at first glance it looks that way. However, there is no need to particularly protect the debtor of the Republic of Serbia in a situation where the amendment and addition of this member, submitted and reasoned by the proposed representative, states that the executive trustee, along with a proposal for execution, is obliged to submit evidence of the warning of the executive debtor and that this proves the recommended consignment to the address of the executive debtor. I think this is quite enough to protect the executive debtor, to show him one correctness so that there is no unpleasant procedure of execution, census, sales, etc. and to unnecessary costs. In addition, to protect the debtors of the Republic of Serbia, I think, and I am not sure that it is in accordance with the Constitution, because Article 86. The constitution predicts that all forms of property enjoy equal protection, so I'm not sure that this is in accordance with the Constitution. At first glance, I say this looks and it is thus explained by the promoter that this is being protected by the Republic of Serbia, or by the debtor of the Republic of Serbia. However, it is practically here that the executive trustee is protected, because the problem is the trustee if he submits a request for execution without reliably determining whether that debt really exists. All expenses will be borne by the trustee. So this doesn't protect the debtor at all, because the debtor wouldn't bear the costs if he settled his debt, and that's no problem proving it here, since it states that such evidence is required by the competent court. So the executive debtor would certainly have such evidence, that is, in this case the Republic of Serbia, and that was not his problem, but the executive trustee's problem. For these reasons, I propose that this amendment be rejected and that the proposal of the Proposer be fully accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16862	Biljana Pantić Pija.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16863	I'll agree with my colleague. I think this amendment adds an additional commitment to the Chamber, as it predicts that the Chamber of Executive is obliged to check within 15 days with a competent court, in which an execution decision is made on the basis of which the execution was proposed, whether the monetary claim of the Executive Trustee was previously settled in the court proceedings when the executive debtor of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the chamber is not a party to the procedure. I don't know why the Chamber would have an additional obligation to verify whether the claim was settled, and if it's already settled, there's a possibility of a statement of objection. It's just that when he declares his objection, the court will decide further. I don't know why the Republic of Serbia would put itself in a privileged position when there's no need for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16864	The word has Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16865	President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, I will be brief, recommend that the proposed amendment be rejected, for the reason I consider that the precondition for the start of the execution is just checking whether the financial claim of the executive trustee in the proceedings before the court is settled. So that's how I think the amendment itself is too high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16866	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16867	Dear Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, in principle, we have pointed out that these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security are necessary and necessary and will certainly contribute to the resolution of certain situations arising from the enforcement process, because the enforcement procedure on the one hand can contribute to effective action and settlement of trustees in a timely manner within a satisfactory time frame. In the end, it can also contribute to the acceleration of business activities, but on the other hand, if it does not take place in a satisfactory manner, it can also impair the enforcement process. I understand why this amendment is not accepted, but I also have an obligation to explain why we submitted it. In fact, we understand that this amendment that we have submitted may not have a place in the article that is open. But given that we did not have consultations in the submission of amendments and additions to this law within Parliament, that we did believe that we would have made our constructive contribution and indicated that it was necessary for some other members to change urgently and that, as the promoter himself stated in his explanation, they would prevent certain abuses that are in practice. What was our basic motive for submitting this amendment? We know that the President of the First Basic Court addressed the Chamber of Executives, which pointed to the fact that there was a double settlement of the claim when he was an executive debtor of the RS, because there is not enough coordination between the Chamber of Executives and the courts themselves, so that creditors in this case who have a disposition to settle their claims either through the executioner or through the court make abuses and double their claims. I agree that there is a legal remedy, that the objection is if the claim is settled. Unfortunately, however, some creditors are not safe enough. I also agree that it's not the end. There is also a possibility that this claim that has been returned twice as calmly, but it is only a matter of time before it is known and whether it will be found out at all. Certainly, may this amendment be a guide to some future changes that, when we discuss, hopefully, the sooner the proposal and the work group model that is educated by the Justice Ministry, take this into account and consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16868	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16869	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS MP, who is also the legislator of this law, has made a decision to refuse such an amendment in the light of more than one reason. First, what I want to point out, and it is important for the public of Serbia, is the legislator of this law is an esteemed fellow lawyer and MP, Mr. Slobodan Homen, who is not presently in the hall, at the moment when the amendment he has given is discussed. We don't have a proposing of this amendment and a qualified man who would explain to us in a valid way and possibly try to convince us that the arguments he made in his explanation are so good that we accept this amendment. In parallel with that, the deputy head of the parliamentary group and the same party to which Mr. Homen belongs warns and asks the public of Serbia – where are SNS MPs? So much for double arches. Why won't we accept this amendment? Because he is a compilation of the amendment given by Mrs. Snezana Malovic, who before me tried to explain Mr. Homen's amendment, because this is actually about the same text as the opening part. So, "breathing a page" -- you just delete an introductory part that is more of an explanation and explanation than is the essence and you write what we cannot, of course, accept. We can't because we don't need to protect whoever he is. All debtors are equal before the law, and on the other hand, such a request to the Chamber would only extend the execution procedure for another 15 days, and we know that there is an idea and it is essential that the executive procedure be carried out as quickly as possible. At the end of the line, if the trustee submits a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document, the debtor has the right to object, and if, of course, it is already charged, then all the costs of the procedure, the fees, the legal tariff of the person writing the complaint, will fall on the trustee's burden. So, no one's so naive, so eager to do something, and you're aware yourself that double charge represents a certain crime, so no one's in this country, I hope, still so much lost their minds, that it writes two executions, or that it charges, and then takes another charge, to be discovered and then prosecuted. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party, its parliamentary group, will vote against the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16870	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16871	Thank you, Chairman. The SPS parliamentary group agrees that this amendment should be rejected, in addition to respecting the motives for which the amendment is submitted, but the truth works also for the proper informing of citizens. The ministry of justice recognised the problem of multiple payments where the state, or the Republic of Serbia, appears as executive debtor earlier. It is not an indication of the Court of First Instance since yesterday, but for a long time, so that this problem as a problem identified in any case is the subject of an examination in any future law, and that of the law on enforcement and security, which will represent one comprehensive text and which will finally regulate everything that implies the executive procedure and everything that implies the basic objective and meaning of the law, which is on the one hand the protection of the interests of executive creditors, and on the other hand the obligation of executive debtors to settle the obligation towards executive creditors. What is undoubtedly true here is that the Chamber does not have party legitimacy, so as soon as there is no party legitimacy it cannot be burdened with any obligations proposed by the amendment or requested. I think it's something that should be basic knowledge and the rights of the executive procedure and that we don't need to make any comments about it in that direction. As regards the obligation of the Chamber itself, it can indeed be exclusively in any future law, and in no case in the proposed amendments, as requested by the amendment's proposer, or requested, which is ultimately imperative both in relation to the executive procedure and in relation to the Chamber as an institution to be covered by the Implementation and Security Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16872	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16873	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak as an authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party and I will talk about all the amendments that we have submitted, as they relate to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security, while one amendment is technically and it refers to Article 3. It is, as I said, necessary to amend certain actions in the executive procedure, introduce additional restrictions and therefore try to make the executive procedure more effective. It was highlighted in the debate in the principle that the law on enforcement and security was adopted in 2011 and that he then tried to make the executive procedure more effective. At that time, we faced a procedure that lasted over 400 days. I must say, even today, there is no much better situation than the executions carried out by the court. The law itself has been working for a long time, over three years, and one of the reasons why the law has been working on it for so long was the fact that in 2007, even before the DS was involved in the government, our country had made a commitment to a project that it worked with USAID to introduce the perpetrator into our judicial system. Since I was then the minister of justice, who proposed the law on enforcement and security at the time, I feel that I am obliged in some way to introduce you to the fact that I was not absolutely agreeing that the perpetrators should be introduced into our system, believing that we are not yet, as a society that seeks to adapt our legal system to European integration, enough staff to do so. However, after four years of applying that law or three years of application, we see that the perpetrators have significantly accelerated the enforcement process and, of course, there are some anomalies that need to be changed. Of course, when you introduce one of these new professions into our judicial system, you can't look at all those obstacles that can be encountered during law enforcement. I think it's a good thing the state recognizes certain problems and reacts to them. As I said in the debate in principle, I believe this should have been made more comprehensive, given that an educated working group whose mandate and task is to identify all the problems that exist in the execution. The amendments we have submitted have been constructive and have gone in the direction, since we have not been consulted, nor have we been offered to be a proposing, and I am sure that we would accept, improve the text and introduce certain restrictions, which we believe can contribute to the effectiveness of the executive procedure. I agree with the comments that the procedure for enforcement concerning municipal and similar services, where the authority of the perpetrators to the trustee's seat was envisaged, is not a good thing. It was shown during law enforcement that these cases mainly went to the executive offices in large cities, which is again in some cases, which we could see during the debate in principle, led to individual offices having tens of thousands of cases, which I also don't think they can be more efficient. What our dilemma is, as I said in the debate in principle, and now I'm going to repeat, is it possible to limit the distribution of the case through the Chamber of Executives if it is a trustee with majority private capital? Why does our dilemma exist? Namely, because of Articles 83 and 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 83. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says entrepreneurship is free and can only be limited to protect people's health, environment and natural wealth, as well as for the safety of the Republic of Serbia. Article 84 says acts restricting freedom of competition are prohibited. The same article prescribes that the rights acquired by investing capital under the law cannot be reduced by law. It is not only the existence of constitutional members, but also because there have been certain decisions of the Constitutional Court in this regard, but it remains to be seen in practice, if this law is passed, I believe it will, will take place and how will the Constitutional Court react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16874	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16875	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, when it comes to this amendment, what I would like to mention is that co-ownership relations are already regulated by one other law, the Business Society Act. What I was about to say is that in no way can companies that already have regulated and defined their co-ownership relations be in any way damaged or threatened by the existing legal regulations of the applicable law on enforcement and security. That's why I don't think it should be excessive to take any steps under that plan, they're simply too high. I therefore consider this amendment too excessive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16876	Thank you, Mrs. Alexic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16877	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to say, I don't exactly believe in the honesty of the applicant's motive for the amendment. This amendment should be rejected for a simple reason, I'll be free to say this is a pure lobbyist amendment. What exactly is this about? Here, the amendment wants to achieve the following – that public and state-owned enterprises must address the chamber, then in alphabetical order for the executioner to be determined, and for private companies to enable them to choose their own enforcer. I really don't mind that the assistant minister, at a time when the lady who submitted the amendment, was in her ministry, which today is one of the biggest perpetrators and I have nothing against which he has an extraordinary job with one private firm today in Belgrade, which only gives him the opportunity to do the execution, but we can't discriminate against public and state-owned enterprises in relation to the private sector, but towards everyone equally and, of course, the chamber will determine the executioner in alphabetical order. That's why I don't believe in honesty and the very sincere motives of the applicant, with all of Belgrade knowing how close she is to that man herself, in the sense that he was her assistant while she was the minister of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16878	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Mrs. Malovic, on what grounds? I'm asking for the reason I've got a lot of reports, so I need to see who has the advantage. Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16879	Thank you. I won't look back on you saying I'm being dishonest. It's your business and your reasoning, some of the prices of Serbian citizens watching us. But it really bothers me when you say the amendment is lobbying. You're free to prove it, if you have proof of something like that, and the man you're talking about is not here, so I don't think it's nice to talk about a man who can't answer. Was he my assistant? I think you mean Dejan Pasic, since he was mentioned in the principle debate. Yes, he was my assistant and I'm proud of it. And now he's my friend and I'm proud he's my friend. But also for the sake of honesty and for the complete informing of Serbia's public, say when he became the perpetrator. He signed up for the 2013 exam. You know, if I couldn't help him, even if I had the best intentions, it would have been appreciated. So in 2013, he passed the exam and was appointed in 2013. It is also not nice to say that there are the largest number of cases because you can trust me or re-answer me that I am dishonest, you can go to the Justice Ministry website where there is, according to law, the obligation for all those who are involved in the execution process in Serbia to submit reports, so these reports show how many cases there are. Therefore, as I said, my words do not have to be trusted, but an insight into the Justice Ministry's website can be made, where there is a report on the work of all the perpetrators in Serbia and where you can see how many cases there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16880	I thank you, Mrs. Malovic. Mr. Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Djukanovic, you have no right to a replica. She responded to your exposure. She was entitled to a replica, but you have no right to a replica. Mr. Jovanovic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16881	Chairman, I point to the violation of article 106, so I ask you to intervene, calling on this provision of the Rules of Procedure, because the discussion has gone beyond the agenda. The previous speaker pointed to the name and the name of a person who undoubtedly has the identity of a private executioner, but his legitimacy and the work he does is undoubtedly not part of the agenda and is no doubt not the subject of consideration, especially not the amendment and addition of the law on enforcement that we are discussing today. Remembrances, we were hostages yesterday over 580 amendments submitted by one parliamentary group, or two MPs, and I think...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16882	Mr. Jovanovic, what does this have to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure and this debate, yesterday's debate?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16883	And that's because we shouldn't be slaves to the discussion now that comes out of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16884	Mr. Jovanovic, you no longer have the opportunity to do so, I will not allow you to discuss it that way, to mention yesterday's debate, etc. You cannot deny the MPs the right to explain their amendments. Thank you. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16885	I'm advertising a 27th and 104th injury because I was entitled to a replica. I was completely misread because I didn't speak at all when a man laid down as an executioner, nor was I interested in it. I said this is a lobbyist amendment for the next reason, because this particular office has the exclusiveness of a private company that only gives them the opportunity to carry out the execution. That's what I was talking about. I'm glad that the former minister in question told us who this is, and I'm just saying that this is lobbying because you want to allow such offices to continue to have that kind of exclusivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16886	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement about this? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16887	By amendment. The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in particular, amends the law on enforcement and security relating to the determination of the place of jurisdiction of the perpetrators was done with the intention of making equal distribution of the transfers, on the one hand. So, by amending the law, the Chamber is defined as an organ that will determine the evenness of the perpetrators in the cases. On the other hand, something also important is the regional distribution of the case, when the perpetrator is determined towards the residence or headquarters of the executive debtor. The proposal to determine the local jurisdiction of the perpetrators should apply only to state-owned enterprises, and that private enterprises have the option of selecting the perpetrators cannot support precisely because I believe that the exclusion, in any sense, when determined by the perpetrators, should not exist because it is precisely this way that they will disrupt both criteria defined by law, or amendments to the law, and will also disrupt exactly the balance and regional distribution. So, for these reasons, there can be no exclusive. I therefore suggest that the amendment not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16888	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zivan Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16889	President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, just to remind you that, in principle, in the discussion of the authorised representative of the promoter, it is very convincing that these are the reasons that led to the submission of this very proposal to amend and supplement the law on enforcement and security. I also remind you that in the discussions, almost all MPs supported and confirmed that such reasons existed and that such a change was necessary. Unlike the previous amendment, where the solutions given in the proposal are generally accepted, this amendment does not appear to be. In fact, we have heard from the promoters and in previous discussions that special treatment is proposed here for executive trusts if they are owners of private property, and on the other hand, executive trusts if they are public enterprises, i.e. enterprises in the property of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or local self-government. I don't think that's right for the reason I cited it in the previous discussion. On the other hand, is anyone in this room convinced that they are owners of private property and that these creditors are immune to abuses, that they are immune to corrupt acts? There is just as much danger in these situations where executives are owners of private property as in these others. So I don't think it's right to split up, and we've heard here and some of the additional reasons, and in my view, that points to the motives of putting up with one of these. Here, too, the proposal reiterated what the previous amendment said, that in a situation where the debtor, the Republic of Serbia, needs some special treatment, I have already declared that. For these reasons, I propose that this amendment be rejected, that the proposal for a proposal be fully accepted in the Voting Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16890	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16891	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as one of the legislators of this law, I didn't quite understand the meaning of the amendment, and I listen very carefully to my fellow lawyers to try to explain it to me. I certainly advocate respect for constitutionality. In the light of this amendment, the Proposer is called upon to strictly respect the Constitution. I have great respect for that, especially when it's wanted and done by a former minister of justice. In the Constitution, the judiciary is independent and every advocate for the respect of the Constitution implies that no person employed by a political party can go to work in the prosecution the next day, because it then derogates the independence of the judiciary. Isn't that right, fellow Nikolich? But if the Justice Minister who is employed in the DS does so, the former justice minister, and immediately the next day he goes to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, there is no respect for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16892	Mr. Risticevic, please, just go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16893	Well, I'm in the text of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16894	Don't speak to another MP personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16895	I'm not talking to anyone personally. I'm talking about the former justice minister. If it's personal to you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16896	What does that have to do with this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16897	Perhaps you were the former justice minister? How does this have nothing to do with the amendment? Since it doesn't matter if someone's trying to respect the Constitution, I support it. In the light of the amendments, the Proposer has advocated compliance with the Constitution. Respect for the Constitution also implies an independent judiciary, which means that people from political parties cannot move on to work in the prosecution, because then the independence of the judiciary and the prosecution is deregated. And when the former minister of justice does, then the question of the quality of the promoter is asked, so how does someone once want to respect the Constitution, and the second time they won't respect the Constitution? You understand? In order to be fully in the amendment, I ask you, when the executive debtor of the state of Serbia as it says in the amendment, is this about paying for mistakes, when, say, someone counter-sustains over 1,000 or about 1,000, my colleagues will escort me if I'm wrong, which is the prosecutor, which is the judge? When damage comes from unpaid personal incomes because they are not constitutionally elected, when the Constitutional Court assesses it, when big damage occurs, and when the state of Serbia is an executive debtor. I ask fellow lawyers here, who executes that kind of decision, who makes up for the damage? I know they're paying the citizens of Serbia. So, the mistakes he commits, say, the State's Major Prosecutors, the mistakes committed by the High Council of the Judiciary or whatever it's called, in which the amendment promoter participates. These mistakes result in millions and millions of dinars, I would like the executive debtor not to be the state of Serbia, but rather to be the executive debtors who contributed to such an anti-constitutional and illegal state, and for whose mistakes the citizens of Serbia must pay the damage and ultimately be debtors on behalf of the Serbian state, not officials who have made obvious failures, with a clear intention that the choice of prosecutors and judges should never be held accountable for their misdeeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16898	Mr. Risticevic, you used the words of this amendment, but I still didn't realize what that had to do with the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Djurishic, you're in business.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16899	Dear Chairman, I believe the previous speaker has injured Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, where he says the speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You've tried to distract yourself, but you haven't applied everything the Rules of Procedure gives you to the end. I believe that you had to apply the Rules of Procedure and not allow such an address that was completely out of the agenda and was only served to offend another fellow MP. We can speak politically here and agree and disagree, say what decisions any of us have in some time have as a consequence, whether these decisions will and how the citizens of Serbia will pay. I can say, unfortunately, the decisions this government has made in the past few months will cost Serbia's citizens dearly, they will pay years back.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16900	Mr. Djurishic, what does this have to do with what you've just said with the breach of the Rules of Procedure? If you're warning someone else to stick to the Rules of Procedure, that's what you should do. Especially as the head of the parliamentary group. Please, after warning, Mr. Risticevic used the words, I have an amendment in front of me, he used the word around the perpetrator, he used the words of the amendment, and I didn't have the opportunity to break it. You know that very well. Its right is in which it can explain why it supports or contests an amendment. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No, thank you. ) The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Biljana Pantic Pija, from the place: No, but as authorised. Yes, you have the advantage since there are more reported, you have the advantage as authorized. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16901	I just want to relate to what my colleague Risticevic said. He was talking about an amendment that had to be rejected and he had to make a parallel. We're talking about judicial reform, judicial law, so I don't see where he hurt his Rules of Procedure. He really had to mention the 2010 reform that destroyed the judiciary. So I don't know why someone's complaining and saying someone's offended by the MPs. No, he was talking about judicial reform and the former minister. So please, colleague Risticevic was really right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16902	Thank you, Mrs. Pantic. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16903	The Honored Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, respected citizens of the proposed amendment should not be accepted for three basic reasons. The first reason why the amendment should not be accepted is to prevent equal access to justice. This is reflected in the fact that the amendment promoter treats state-owned enterprises and private enterprises in a completely different way, i.e. private enterprises, or companies with majority private capital, is given the opportunity to choose their own contractors. The aim of the legislator and the general objective of the SNS is for all to be equal before the law, not for individuals or individual companies to be favored in any way by private or state. So that's the first reason this amendment should be rejected. The second reason why this amendment should be refused is to compromise the principle of efficiency which is both important and significant in the enforcement process. And how does the amendment's proposing compromise this principle of efficiency? It endangers it by giving the chamber 15 days to respond upon request again and giving the chamber authority to verify whether the debtor has settled his obligations before the court even though we know well that the check is the previous question and that it has already been resolved, and that the check has already been carried out. Therefore, for reasons of jeopardising equal access to justice to all the factors of this society, for the purpose of jeopardising efficiency, for the purpose of jeopardising economics, this amendment is not acceptable to the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16904	I thank Mrs Jevtović Vukojičić. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16905	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment is not acceptable for the SNS parliamentary group because it is contrary to our proposal to amend and supplement the Security and Enforcement Act, where there is one basic idea, and there was also a law adopted in 2011, which is equal to the law of all creditors. We cannot make a selection of creditors to those who belong and who have more than 50% of the state capital and which refers to those companies established by the Republic of Serbia, the territorial autonomy units and the local self-government units, and that the other companies do not need to address the execution chamber and that there in the procedure that we have provided for the request to determine the perpetrator by the place where the execution is located, or where the execution is to be carried out. Such selectivity does not lead to strengthening the rule of law. What the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic, tends to say is that they are all equal before God and before the law. I think even trustees are equal to the law. We have to defend that right of all creditors that there is no selectivity, that there is no entrenchedness between them, why one has to do something and the other doesn't have to. As for those 15 days and checking whether it was charged or not, I said so in commenting on the same amendment Mr. Homen gave, which was written by this amendment, which Mrs. Malovic gave, so that for us, for the parliamentary group, this proposal of this amendment is not acceptable and we will reject it in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16906	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Neđo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16907	Thank you, Chairman. I will once again express regret that the amendment, which was more or less agreed in the principle debate, was not accepted. It was agreed between all of us here, who really in an extremely objective way, with the professional references we have at our disposal, we see the possibility of changing and supplementing the law on enforcement and security making them as high-quality as possible. Given that we have agreed on something essential, and it is essential that any amendments and additions must be made to the existing text of the Law on Implementation and Security. In this regard, and in view of the fact that we agreed that the deadlines attached to the procedure of the chamber should not be short, and the short term is five days, that we agreed on that deadline to be longer, that it should be justified by the deadline prescribed by the law, which is five working days, that we agreed on a fact that is indisputable and no one can doubt it, which is that in no case should leave a great discretionary option or discretionary right to an executive in selecting an enforcer, then it is truly surprising that only the first position of the amendment, proposed by the SPS parliamentary group, of course, via me as a legitimate applicant, considers that this amendment is unacceptable. I must, for the sake of the citizens, remind myself that there is something in the amendment that I believe is too much in the interest of executive creditors and that in no case is at the expense of the executive debtor, which is that instead of what the Law on Bond Relations is defined, which is the term or term of municipal and similar services, replaced by the concept of services from the public and public-community business. Dear fellow Members of the People, what difference does it make? Public enterprises and public-public enterprises are executive creditors and have the opportunity to have such legitimacy, to acquire it. Why would such legislation challenge the public undertaking NIS or EPS or public ski resorts, or any other public enterprise? Why would such a company have some kind of benefit to determine the perpetrators and even make them abuses? Of course, we don't want anyone in the coalition to accuse anyone of being prepared for such a tendency. We're here to prevent, in fact, from acting preventively so that such phenomena don't happen. In that direction, we bring these changes and additions, and that's the basic goal of these changes and additions. Then let someone logically answer me, hello- reason, which is why these companies and public-communal companies need to be excluded from the amendments and the addition of the laws that we are discussing today. It is truly unacceptable, and I really find that once again and an authorised proposer, and we all consider together the possibility of accepting this, because it has gone too far in practice and how significantly and useful. We also have the full agreement that when selecting an enforcer, on the one hand, strict application of the law, and on the other hand to avoid discrimination resulting in the enormous wealth of individual perpetrators. With respect to something that was highlighted in the principle debate by colleague Martinovic when she called for the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, so that we would not return to the topic and not cause unnecessary controversy, I just have to draw attention to something that we are obliged to do as a lawmaker. One, to establish full legal certainty when it comes to the settlement of claims by executive creditors, and on the other hand that this legal certainty is subject to legal action, i.e. to be in full compliance with the law, as well as with the Constitution. I then, and now, I repeat, pointed out the fact that the selection of executioners by chambers should be defined as being analoguely defined as the choice of bankruptcy managers in bankruptcy cases. Are we going to violate any other provisions of the law in this situation? I will not engage much in this because we will immediately cause controversy, as regards the application of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, but it is doubtless that if we apply the principle of algorithm, or the software method of selecting the perpetrator, we will avoid any kind of abuse, we will avoid any kind of privileged. The most dangerous thing to do is to leave a lot of free rights to the executive trustee that he chooses the perpetrators himself. Then one of these same perpetrators will be permanently engaged, then one and the same perpetrator will have tens of thousands of cases, will have a fee that is disproportionately large in relation to what it implies, both its engagement and the violation of the rights of the other perpetrators to participate evenly or evenly in executives, or proceedings. Therefore, I would also like to ask the authorising officer to reconsider all this we had in mind. I could not agree with my opposition colleagues that they allegedly participated in the adoption of such proposals, or such a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Implementation and Security, to accept this. Each of us has a full initiative. They could have done it by colleagues from opposition parties. We could've been in position. Everyone has this legitimacy and the obligation and the right to do with the bill what is the basic objective of the legislator, which is that each law is practically applicable, and in practical application to achieve the highest degree of quality, clarity, precision, indifference of regulation and that legal arrangement of the area to which it applies. With this, dear fellow Members of the People, my dear fellow lawyers, lawyers, dear folk, not only MPs, as I said earlier, not to be ambiguous but friends who really seek to make this law as high as possible, I ask you to reconsider once more all this which has been pointed out that we are in fact ignoring one situation in which the legislator is often present, which is that we are slaves to the views of someone who, in a specific case, is not legitimately proposing. We're the legitimate promoter. Those who impose some of their definitions, no matter where they are or where they work or what they do, cannot be above the legislator. We are a legislator, and we have the right and obligation to regulate a certain legal area and a certain living situation that must be covered by legislation, there is no compromise in that direction, and there is no need to be subjected to anything that implies our obligation in any case, and that is the obligation to pass a law that is most qualitative in the interests of citizens, and these proposed changes and additions through my, or amendments to the SPS are undoubtedly in the greatest interest of citizens. For the sake of the Constitution, for the sake of the law, for all we do, I think we should consider once more the possibility of accepting this amendment, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16908	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16909	Thank you. I would like to explain in a few sentences the reasons for the support, both the amendment submitted by MP Neđo Jovanovic and the explanation that was clear, thorough, clever and explained everything necessary when it comes to the amendment that he is changing the existing bill. The content of his amendment is about halfway between the ideas that we had in the changes and the difference that exists concerned the similarities with the executioners and the bankruptcy managers, that is, the idea of the executioners being the subject of public procurement, regardless of what remains of the idea that such as, as legal services concerning the users of the budget of direct and indirect cases of public procurement, that such a principle could have been developed here with all the objections that stand in it until we see for the bankruptcy managers. But three key things this amendment improves in the bill, except it defends in the explanation of fellow MP of our obligation, our rights when it comes to law-making, no matter how influential someone who suggested that the law be written. What three? The key problem for which we bring changes and complements is the obvious imbalance in the enforcement market and obviously applied to only individual contractors getting jobs and to clearly see the lines how and why they get jobs. The alphabet order didn't help, since we all know one of the perpetrators at A, who never... (Dear Nikolic, from the post: Chairman, this has nothing to do with this amendment. ) National MPs earn what does this amendment have to do with? It has something to do with Amendment 3 and I'm going to start with the first explanation. I will ask the chairman to intervene for a pass or I will ask the MPs to follow closely. Therefore, the position which we are talking about is very clear that there is a problem, because certain people have determined who will be the perpetrators, so there has been a conflict of interest among different groups and therefore there is this law, and the position which this is clearly defined as being: If the chamber does not respond to the request of the Executive Trustee within five working days of the date of receipt, the Executive Trustee shall determine the perpetrators in whose area the executive debtor has residence, residence or headquarters, and the executioner who was previously designated by the Chamber at the request of the Executive Trustee or has been designated earlier by the Executive Trustee by the Executive Commissioner whose chamber at his request cannot be determined. Therefore, this view in the amendment of fellow Members of Parliament clearly refers to the huge objections that exist because the perpetrators are elected by some procedure, a far-reaching discretionary law. So the first good thing about this amendment is that it connects the chamber, the total number of perpetrators that can enter into execution, and thus tries to remove the current vague situation that is causing us to change this law. The second clarification in the first position of the amendment, which reads - the Executive Trustee, is obliged to require the chamber to determine the executioner to whom the proposal for enforcement is to be submitted on the basis of a credible document. In the basic text of the law that is before us, which is amended by this attitude, it has been left out to interpret whether it implies both public and public-public enterprises because the basic text of the law is based on public and similar services performed. When we see this text of the law with enough read texts of the law in front of it, then we see the intention to interpret it. If the intention to interpret is seen, which is the submission of this bill to remove existing interpretation, then it is my suggestion to listen more carefully to the proposal of the MP, counterpart Nedja Jovanovic. The second improvement in relation to the bill is already mentioned in Section 3 and is the way in which, even in the alphabetical order of its second entry into the names of the perpetrators and that, otherwise, a good idea is made to enable impartiality, objectivity, neutrality, to further explain that there would be no reason for reasonable doubt. The desire to be as the third important thing in this amendment to explain how much time it takes is also good. It doesn't change much at first sight, but if you put in five working days instead of five days, you leave reasonable enough time for the job to be done. Anyone who has good intentions to change the law that is before us should be very careful before the day of voting to consider the amendment that the MP has tabled. If there are certain parts or sentences from individual points of view of the amendments, which may be the subject of the dialogue, I am sure that it is better than not to vote for the amendment, because in the day of the vote it simply does not declare the amendment, it is called against or refuses, that it is better to accept this amendment than to leave a member of the law, Article 1 of the amendment and supplementing the law as it is. In addition to increasing the security that the process that the perpetrators are working on will be clarified, removing doubts, they would do one more thing that is personal to me, or show that we share confidence with the MP Neđe Jovanovic who said it - we are legislators. Sooner or later, we'll show it, this amendment is a chance to show it now and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16910	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the city: I answer the word. Mr. Jovanovic, on what basis? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: By amendment. You can't get a word now that you've been reported before. Professor Janko Veselinović came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16911	Chairman, I was persuaded by fellow counterparts Nedo Jovanovic that I voted in favour of this amendment in the voting day. Namely, as Col. Komic said, the basic problem that exists at the Institute of Implementation, or private perpetrators, is the fact that there was abuse. We may not all agree, or MPs of the opposition and the position on whether the law amending these provisions is a way of under the fact that the existing law is not applicable, so that we can make changes, counting that this law will be consistently applied. What do I mean? In the light of this law, it states that the reason for its change in the fact that there was an abuse in the implementation of the enforcement procedure, i.e. the granting of the right to enforce certain perpetrators. I believe that this could have been overcome in another way and that such an amendment was not necessary, that those who gave or trusted the executions were acting in accordance with the law, but I would say - both good customs and good business practices and had not been privileged. But in these places, as you know, there are people who were elected by this majority and they were supposed to enforce this existing law, not change the law. If we're changing the law, then we need to remove any additional possibility of abuse of that law. The provision given by counterpart Jovanovic, which complements the existing Article 252 where it is said that the award cannot be determined by an executor who had previously been designated by the Chamber at the request of the executive trustee because he had previously been designated by the executive trustee if the Chamber did not respond upon his request. So here, in one way, the criteria for the award of execution, which could not have been misused so far, were, by all accounts. Kola Jovanovic calls for an agreement that existed on this, which was widely accepted, so that one of these changes could be accepted because it is acceptable for the promoter, however, we come to what I was talking about at the beginning of this session. You, Mr. Jovanovic, have no one to convince. It seems to me that you have persuaded both opposition parliamentary groups to vote for your amendment, but there is no one to convince from the ruling coalition, or your partners are not in the O.R., there are very few left. That's why I think you should make an additional effort to get them back, talk to them or the heads of Parliament. I think supplementing this member would be very useful. I repeat once again, I will vote for this amendment in voter day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16912	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16913	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, find it difficult for those supported by DS or that party who left the party, with an explanation of this amendment that absolutely has nothing to do with the amendment Mr. Nedjo Jovanovic gave on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. So these arguments we've heard are absolutely about the amendments and additions to the laws that we've given as a parliamentary group. That's one commendation, and I thank you very much for it. You obviously understood that our goal was to do what you said, and in that sense, I welcome that you will vote for an amendment to the Security and Enforcement Act that we have proposed, and probably for this amendment as well. In the principle debate, I have argued that, as for the five working days covered by this amendment by Mr Neđo Jovanovic, for the reply to the Chamber of Trustees, I cannot say that I will now be against it, but in the voting day I will vote for this amendment, but we as a parliamentary group, of course, and I as part of it, will vote for the law as we have proposed and in this way, I am afraid that we will not accept your amendment, and I will explain why. At the same time I ask you to, together with your coalition partners with whom you are in power, which is the SNS, vote for this law and I am convinced that you, as a very correct coalition partner so far, will do so and that this attempt to create some dissonant tone between us and you, and that between the DS and the other one who has escaped from them, will not make any difference. Because of the public, I just want to explain why we didn't accept this amendment. The Law on Liabilities states as we have written in Article 252(1), where it is said that the Executive Trustee is obliged to make a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document, in order to obtain a monetary claim on the basis of public and similar services performed, to require the Chamber to determine which execution proposal will be submitted on the basis of a credible document. It stands and this is the formulation of the Bond Relations Act, which we haven't changed, which we'll probably be changing next year. You didn't copy that. If it were, we would accept in general this amendment of yours. You've formulated it differently. You've only made one change. I will read it again because of the public: "The executive trustee is obliged to require the Chamber before submitting a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document, in order to achieve a monetary claim on the basis of the services carried out from the public and public-community companies' activities, to determine the executioner to whom a proposal for enforcement will be submitted on the basis of a credible document". And because of this, which is the difference in that definition, we wouldn't want to violate the Bond Relations Act. We wouldn't want to do that, and you gave us this amendment in one text. If you had separated him, this would have been accepted in five working days, I guarantee you, because it's perfectly logical, it's in agreement with the Security and Implementation Act, because in all other cases that five working days are valid. Again, I have the right as an MP for the Serbian Progressive Party to vote on my conscience. I will vote in voting day for this amendment, but in general I will vote in favour of the legal text, as we as a parliamentary group have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16914	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16915	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, to point out something I pointed out at the outset. When I spoke in principle about both the law and the possibility of improving the quality of the law with amendments, I said that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group would support amendments and additions in the voting day. What the amendment has tried and has experienced today is certain support in this House in no way has any reflection on the functioning of our coalition composition and on our coalition capacity. What every MP has the right, has the right to define himself according to the amendment, according to his own free will and to indicate whether the amendment is acceptable or not. I'm justified and professional, and I tried to make it as professionally as possible, and when I said I had support, I said that it was the support of the profession, pointing to something that should be an improvement in quality. In any case, we have on the one hand the obligation to make laws in a way that is and how significant to the citizens, that is, in their best interests, and on the other hand, it implies that the laws are practically applicable, clear and unequivocal. Of course, dear colleagues, especially my colleague, Nikolic, I would like to accept your position as colleagues who, from a professional point of view, are determined according to the amendment. I'm glad you're voting for that amendment. As regards what is related to the law and the necessity to change the law, that is the essence and the essence of these necessary changes are going towards what is the basic objective, and the main objective is to introduce order in the executive procedure, and especially in that part of the executive procedure relating to the selection of the enforcer. That's why, in that direction, these changes and additions will be supported by the SPS, as always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16916	Thank you. The word is made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, following the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16917	Thank you. I would just like to make some kind of public consultation with Mr. Neđa Jovanovic, because this amendment is both good and good.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16918	Mr. Vesenovicu, speak directly to me, and Mr. Jovanovic will understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16919	I said that in the day of voting I would support this amendment, but I would ask the fellow who has proposed this amendment, if he thinks that my voice and the voice of the opposition will endanger their coalition, let him tell us, and we will be abstained in the day of the vote. We wouldn't want to spoil the personal atmosphere in this coalition, since I see that one amendment can break it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16920	Thank you. I'm sure it can't come to that. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16921	Thank you. In principle, I also said that I think it is very important when deciding who will be the enforcer responsible for the collection of money claims made on the basis of public and other services provided, to make sure that the executive procedure exists because of the executive trustee and the executive debtor, rather than because of the executioner. In that sense, I also support Mr. Neda Jovanovic's presentation. I think it is very important to find a way for the perpetrators responsible for handling these cases to be satisfied with the trustee's interest as quickly as possible, as cheaply as possible and as effectively as possible to collect their claim and, on the other hand, to guarantee to the executive debtor the basic rights in the enforcement process, the right to object and the right not to charge any more than any other dinar in the process unfoundedly. I still think that it is best to carry out the procedure for selecting perpetrators in these cases through public procurement procedures, because it is a matter of budget users, public and public-public enterprises, which in Serbia, mostly over 90%, provide these municipal and similar services, and that because we as citizens should not be involved in any way in the use of budget and money and because the Public Procurement Act is explicitly prescribed to provide legal services, including the services of the executioner, we must obtain in the procurement process, where offers are delivered and those most favourable to the bidder are guaranteed to obtain the job. Then it is entirely unfounded to introduce one system of edifices through these proposed changes and through the conduct of the Chamber of Executive. On the contrary, I think that those perpetrators who work faster, better quality, more efficient and should have more work to do and that in that sense, they should not be equated by force. But our obligation is to create equal and equal conditions for a transparent and fair match, in which each of them will submit their offer and recommend themselves in the best possible way to get a job, and if that offer is the most favourable, then that job should be won. In this regard, we remain in the position that the public procurement system for obtaining the service of the contractor is something that guarantees or at least leads to minimum potential corruption in selecting the perpetrators, but if the proposal was not accepted, we are fully in agreement with what counterpart Neđo Jovanovic proposed through his amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16922	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16923	Let's stop this idyll for a moment. I am a very happy and happy man when bridges between policies are continued, when they are created and bridged, and the differences that we most often promote and I really don't mind, I even think it's worth it when people who are on different sides of a scale called power and opposition find understanding and support certain amendments and legislative proposals. What I see as a bad argument is an argument for something like that. When the argument is such that you do not see colleagues in the National Assembly, so it is said - I do not see anyone from the SNS who could support such a thing, I do not think it has anything to do with the dioptria, and it has much more to do with political hatred, because they do not see the agility of the promoter, or the authorised representative of the promoter, which is the distinguished colleague Biljana Pantic Pilja, not to see Dragan Nikolic, Irena Aleksic, not all of the colleagues and colleagues who took part in the work during the morning session, I think it is very bad and that he speaks much more about who has said such attitudes. What conflicts with logic, and I am not a lawyer and I will not speak legally, but I will speak in a way that first explains things to myself, and then much easier and to people around me, is said in one sentence, when accepting this amendment from a fellow who is not here and for that reason I do not want to appoint him – this law is not applied, but there are people who abuse. How can something not be used to abuse? It doesn't make any sense to me. You either use it, so you abuse it or you don't use it. If you don't use something, you don't use it, how do you abuse it? You don't consume it, and you abuse it. Make arrangements if this law is not applicable, and I think it applies. That there was abuse, yes, and the proposer and the authorised representative of the motionor in the principle debate spoke very bravely about it. If we didn't want such anomalies to be solved, we wouldn't be giving this bill, we wouldn't try one law of three members of such an anomaly and prevent it. This law is generally a bad, parent law on enforcement and security. As a result, the Justice Ministry's working group has been working for 11 months on strong changes or on a new law on enforcement and security. This law is bad because the underlaws of the Ministry of Justice had to react, and since 1 September of this year, executioners have had the obligation of fiscal cash registers, i.e. a clear and precise tax determination that they have to pay. By motherly law, the basic law does not provide for such a thing. We can also talk about public procurement now, we can talk about other and different ways of solving and editing this area, but let's call things a real name. Dear citizens, I spoke in principle about it, and neither do I, I believe, and most of the colleagues sitting here in the hall, I believe that most Serbian citizens are not so happy about the perpetrators. Executors exist that there are commitments that do not settle down in a much uglier way. In the principle debate, I was talking about the reasons why citizens came into a situation not to carry out their duties. One reason was the storms that rolled the streets of Nis, but it was rolling through other cities, so the irresponsible politicians, who are not in this room today, told the citizens you don't have to pay the bills, put them in this barrel, that way you voted for that option and for that policy, and everything was settled. Of course, it wasn't settled, but people believed and didn't pay, so they came into a situation where the executioners knocked on their doorsteps and on their doorsteps. The second reason is because people in Serbia simply don't have money, they don't have what. They lost their jobs, the unfortunate, the robbery, the criminal privatisations. They lost their jobs, and they were promised 200,000 jobs. Four hundred thousand people between 2008-2012 were out of work. What makes these people pay their bills? Accounts, taxes, everything that's based on a country that's profiting from it, they just have to pay for both the rich and the poor, and for those who have and who don't. Until 2012, the blow was to the poorest. This is why only one company in Mark Miskovic has not even established a base, so we have established that base for a few months until old and now we are fighting through the administrative court, in those places on those channels that the state has to charge taxes. In six months from Luke Belgrade, more taxes have been charged than four years before. It's expensive. The perpetrators knocked on the door to the ordinary little ones, who had previously left the former regime without a job, and then sent them the perpetrators to knock on the door. He hasn't even established a tax base for the big ones. These are the anomalies we should talk about. The realms of the parent, the basic law, that solve these changes. Why have the perpetrators so far been chosen based on the trustees' headquarters? Why were the debts towards “Serbiagas, ” for example, only the perpetrators, 16 or 17, from Novi now? Why couldn't they have been from Vrbasa, let's say, your, Mr. Chairman, Vrnjak Banja, Subotica, Zaječar, Vranja? Why should you just charge and be responsible for the debts to “Srbigas”? Why did the perpetrators from Belgrade charge their obligations to Telecom, then come from Belgrade to Vrnjaka Banja, Mr Vujic, and then knock on the door of one of our neighbours there, have already made expenses? It's supposed to come from Belgrade. Who's gonna pay you? Debtor? Isn't it normal and natural, as this law regulates, that the trustee, or executioner, be from the territory where the debtor is. Smaller costs. I'm going to get in my car, it's going to be a mile, on foot, it's a small environment. Why does someone to Presevo leave Belgrade for a mobile phone operator? Wasn't there a basic reason and a basic essence of corruption that appeared in the home law, and then some who in the meantime became former in the state nomenclature became present as perpetrators? It's right at the source, where the headquarters of the biggest trustee companies are. We can talk about that too. I think that, as envisioned by the law, proposed by Mrs Pantic, the reduced costs of the executioner, thus reducing the burden on the debtors, those people who were left out of work, without income, who, unfortunately, had to owe. There are also those who believed Zoran Zivkovic, so they thought that everything was solved by putting an account in the barrels, and they only put their trust in the barrels that was gambled. This way, this law prevents possible abuses. As I said a few days ago, when we talked in principle, whoever has the knowledge that abuse was committed, no matter how loud or less the sound of that name was, please file a criminal report. We've got an alert law. We have a law that will protect people, who will say yes, there was corruption. We have it, finally, after how many years of announcements, but not political courage and political will to pass such a law. In this way, the SNS courageously marks a place where abuse can occur, courageously marks a place where that obligation and burden can be cheaper, more favourable, better, and we do so by this law. I accept the argument, as collegiate, as professional, as correct, Mr. Neda Jovanovic. I think this amendment is somewhat acceptable. In some parts, I disagree, but I am sure that these amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security will make this area much more transparent, much better. Not only the perpetrators from individual territories and from certain cities will be propagandad. What's an executor doing in Presevo? What's he gonna do? Is there a company headquarters, a company where he could work? No, I don't. At the Vranjska spa? To the King? In Priboy? Where? That's why those who have such a good connection and a career trail in the former justice ministry, and now the perpetrators, are going to swim so well on those laws they've made, to respect the law, to make good income. This law corrects it. That is why, of course, the SNS, as it boldly suggested, in the day of voting on this law, will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16924	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, I just wanted to give you my word, but... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica, is not according to the amendment. I really missed hearing you mention it, but if you say so, you have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16925	There, we also have confirmation from the highest place that I've been mentioned. That really speaks of psychology. That throw when someone's not here. Of course, throwing lies, mentioned storms, is probably one of three, four stories that some MPs have learned through hard efforts. Three, four lies about me. One is that I invited people not to pay for electricity, so that's probably the topic. And invited them to throw electricity bills into the storms in the winter protests in 1996. Because of the public, of course, that's not true. That's when I called on the citizens not to pay a fee for the TV that was paid with the electricity bill. One of the first decisions, even the transitional government after 5 October, was the suspension of a TV subscription fee with an electricity bill. The tax was not implemented until 2004, therefore. My like-minded listeners listened to me, so today they don't pay that tax, nor did they pay it at the time when it was supposed to be mandatory. So I'm waiting for you to get caught up in chocolate or something and who's gonna mention that third lie I forgot? The fact that someone is sensitive to barrels, to the notion of barrels, to the shape of barrels because of their likely similarity to the same one, is not a topic for this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16926	Mr. Zivkovic, please. I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly in your next address, when you speak to another MP, since you do not have the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I never address the MP, it is forbidden. ) The MPs Vesna Martinović, Gordana Komic and Borislav Stefanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16927	Have you been informed from the professional service that the amendment has been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16928	I'm sorry, Mrs. Martinovic, I just received a notice that you have withdrawn the amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. It's all right. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Biljana Hasanovic Korac, together submitted the first amendment. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16929	Dear Chairman, we have submitted this amendment for reasons and wishes that we wanted to specify the current text of the Amendments and Supplements Act. We suggested that in Article 1. The draft law, in paragraph 4, instead of the words – if it does not provide proof that the Chamber has not responded within the prescribed time limit, replace it with the words – if the Executive Trustee does not provide proof that he has sent the request to the Chamber in the event that the Chamber has not delivered the reply within the prescribed time limit. We consider the proposed amendment to be a more precise regulation of the situation when the Chamber fails to respond to the Executive Trustee's request for an enforcement. According to the solution offered by the motionor, we conclude that the executive trustee should prove that the Chamber did not do anything, so that the executioner would even consider the proposal continues to act. As the right negative facts are not proved, it is necessary to define this part differently, and to provide that where the Chamber fails to provide a reply to the request that it is sufficient for the Executive Trustee to provide evidence that it has sent such a request to the Chamber and that it can therefore exercise its rights in the enforcement procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16930	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16931	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I propose that this amendment to Article 1(4) is not adopted because I believe that the proposed formulation already given in the amendments to the law is clear and decadent and clearly stated, I quote - if it does not provide proof that the Chamber has not responded within the prescribed time limit and refers to the Executive Trustee, thus obtaining information on the basis of which the Executive Director is obliged to reject the proposal for enforcement. I think it's all clear here, and I find the proposal too high.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16932	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by the national emissary Snezana Malovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have launched a review of the bill's proposal in principle and in particular, the National Assembly in Dan will decide on the bill of law in principle, details and generality. In view of the fact that the National Assembly has completed the ruling on all points of the agenda of this session, with effect from Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine on Thursday 18 December 2014 starting at 13.30 p.m., as voting day on the agenda of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I thank the people for their participation in the work. (The session was interrupted at 10.45 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16933	The honourable MPs before we move on to a decision need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 137 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, for the need for the Assembly to pass laws and other acts in the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the proposal for a law on insurance in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – three abstentions – there is no, no vote – two MPs, of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Before we move on to the amendment decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 55, which was jointly submitted by the MPs: Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the amendment bill, MPs: Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention – 153 MPs, out of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter I, the name of the head, the name above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16934	I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted - 150 MPs, out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted – 149 MPs, of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the members and Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted - 152 MPs, of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for four, no one who is present, no one who has voted, 152 MPs, of the total 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the members of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions – 158 MPs, out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the members of the 4th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions – 158 MPs, out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the members of the 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted – 156 MPs, of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were appointed by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted – 160 MPs, of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: You must read the whole decision, as they voted. Mr. Sutanovac, since you made a complaint to Mr. Zivkovic... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "I"? ) You suggested not to read the finding of whether the National Bank and the Finance Committee and the rest of the opinions... It's just that we're not obliged as chairman to read each time. If you find in the Rules of Procedure that we are, please deliver that remark to us. That's what the debate said. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Zivkovic, if you knew the Rules of Procedure, you'd know you don't have a word right now. In the course of the vote, no one can get a word or be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted – 156 MPs of the people who are present, among the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Just more information that all MPs, the heads of Parliament's groups have this material in front of them and can interpret whether, if they have forgotten, they have accepted the amendment or refused and what opinion the National Bank has given. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 9 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 10th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 11 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added after Article 11, is the name of the member and Article 11a was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 154 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above members and Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 15th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 152 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above members and Article 16 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 17 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 18th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 155 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 19th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the title of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name of the member and the Article 20th amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićev. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 22 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 2, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 23rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 25th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 157 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 26 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 156 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 27 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name section, the name of the member and member of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 158 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 29 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 4, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 31st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted with 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 32nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korac, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 33rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 34th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 35th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 36th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 37th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 38th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 39th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 40th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 41st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 5, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 43rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 44th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 45th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 46th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 47th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 48th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 4 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 6, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 50th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 51st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 52nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 53rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – four against – 157 of the total attendance of the 161 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 54th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 55th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 56th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted to the 56th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 57th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 58th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 59th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 60th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 151 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 61st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 62nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 63rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 64th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 65th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 7, the name Section, the name of the member and member of the 66th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 67th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 68th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 69th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 8, the name Section, the name of the member and member of the 70th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 71st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 72nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 159 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 73rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 74th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 75th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 76th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 77th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 78th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 79th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 80th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 9, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 81th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter III, the name of the head, the name of the member and member of the 82nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 83rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 84th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter IV, the name of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name of the member and the article 85th amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 86th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 87th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 88th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 89th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 90th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 91st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 92nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - none, abstentioned - one, did not vote 159 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 93rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 94th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 95th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 95th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 96th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name section, the name of the member and member of the 97th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 98th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 99th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 100th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, with abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above the members and members of the 101st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – none, with abstention – one, voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 102 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 103rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 104 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 105th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 106th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 107th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 108th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name Section, the name above the member and member of the 109th amendment, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 110th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 111 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 112 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 113rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter V, the name of the head, Section 1, the name section, the name above the members and Article 114 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 115th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 116 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 117 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 118th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 119th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 120th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 120th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 121st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 122 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 123rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 124th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 125th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 125th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 126 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 126th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 127th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above the members and members of the 128th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 129th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 130th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name section and the name above the member and Article 131 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 131st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 132 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 133th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 134 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 135th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 136th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 137 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 4, the name section, the name above the members and Article 138 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 139th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 140th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 141st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 142 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 143rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 144 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 145th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 146 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VI, the name of the head, Section 1, the name above the members and Article 147 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name above the members and member of the 148th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 149th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 150th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name above the member and member of the 151st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendment to Article 151. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 151 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 152 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 153rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 4, the name above the members and Article 154 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 155th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz to article 155. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 156 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 157 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 158th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 159th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 160th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 5, the name section, the name above the member and Article 161 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 161st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 162 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 163rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 164 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 165th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 166 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 167 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 168th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 169 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 170th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 171st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 172 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 173rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above members and Article 174. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VII, the name of the head, the name above the members and the article 175th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 176 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VIII, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 177 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 178th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 179th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 180th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 181st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On chapter IX, the title of the head, the name above the member and Article 182 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 183rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 184th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 185th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 186 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter X, the title of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name above the members and Article 187 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 188th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 189th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 190th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 191st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 192 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 193th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, had voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 194 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 195th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 196 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 2, the name section, the name above the member and Article 197 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 of the total attendance of the 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 198th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 199th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 200th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 201 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and Article 202 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 203rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz to Article 203. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 204 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 205th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 206 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 207 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 208th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 209th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 210th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 211 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 212 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 213th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 214 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 215th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 216 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 217 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 3, the name above the members and member of the 218th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 219th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstention – one, has voted 147 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter XI, the title of the head, the name above the member and the Member of the 220th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 221st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter XII, the name above the members and Article 222 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, had voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 223rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 224 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 225th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 226 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On chapter XIII, the title of the head, the name above the member and Article 227 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 228th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 229th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 230th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 231st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 152 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter XIV, the title of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name above the member and Article 232 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 152 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 232 by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 233rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 234 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 235th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 236 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 237 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name section and the name above the member and Article 238 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 239th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 240th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 241st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 242 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 243rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 244 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 245th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 246 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 247 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 248th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 249th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 250th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 251st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 252 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 253rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 254 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 255th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter XV, the title of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name above the members and Article 256 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 257 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 258th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name section, the name above the member and member of the 259th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 260th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 261st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 262 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 263rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name section, the name above the member and Article 264 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 265th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 266 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Glav XVI, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 267 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 268th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 269th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 270th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 271st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 272 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 273rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 274 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 275th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 276 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 277 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above members and Article 278, together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 279th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 280th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 281st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16935	After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the insurance bill, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 19 of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on insurance. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF PATITUAL SERVICES After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the bill on payment services in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144 against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 221 submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of public spending. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the part of the first, introductory provision, the name above the members and Article 1 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 4 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 5 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 6 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the second part, the name of the second part, Glava I, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 8 of the amendment, together were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 9 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 10th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 11 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the title of the section, the name above the member and Article 14 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 15th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 2, the name above the member and Article 16 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 17 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 18th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 19th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 22 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 23 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 142 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 142 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 25th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 3, the name above the members and Article 26 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16936	I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 27 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 29 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of section 4 and Article 30 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 5, the name above the members and Article 31 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 140 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 32nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter III, the name of the head, title of section 1, the name above the member and Article 33 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 34th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 35th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 36th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 37th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 38th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 39th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 142 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 40th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 142 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 41st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 42nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 43rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 44th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 45th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 46th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 2, the name above the member and member of the 47th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 139 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 48th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 139 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 49th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 139 of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 3, the name above the member and member of the 50th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 138 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 51st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 139 of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 55th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 139 of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 53rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 54th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 55th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 56th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 142 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 57th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 142 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 58th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 144 of the total of the 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 59th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 60th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 61st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 62nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 63rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 4, the name above the members and the 64th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 65th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 66th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 67th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter IV, the name of the head, the name above the members and the 68th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 69th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 70th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 71st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 72nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 73rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the title above the members and Article 71 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter V, the name of the head, the name above the member and the article of the 74th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, abstention – one, 144 of the total of 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 74th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic I am putting the amendments to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, abstention – there is no, 144 of the total of 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 75th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VI, the title of section 1, the name above the member and Article 76 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 77th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 78th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 79th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 80th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 81st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 81st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 2, the name above the members and the article 82th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 83rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 84th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 85th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 86th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 87th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 3, the name above the members and members of the 88th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 89th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić and Aleksandar Senic together have submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which they propose to add a new membership name and a new member of 89 after article 89. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 90th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 91st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 91st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 92nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 93rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 94th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 95th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 96th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 97th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 98th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 99th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 100th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 4, the name above the member and member of the 101st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 152 of the total of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 102 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 103rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 104 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 5, the name above the members and member of the 105th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Part Three, the name of Part Three, Chapter I, the name above the member and Article 106 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 107th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 108th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 109th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 110th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 111 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 112 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 113rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the title of the section, the name above the member and Article 114 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 115th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 116 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 117 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section II, the name above the members and members of the 118th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 151 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 119th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 120th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 151 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 121st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 122 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 123rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above the members and members of the 124th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 125th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total attendance of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 126 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total attendance of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic, together submitted to Article 126. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 151 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 3, the name above the member and member of the 127th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above the members and members of the 128th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 4, the name above the member and member of the 129th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 130th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 131st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 132 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 151 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 133th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 134 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 135th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 136th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 137 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 138th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 5, the name above the members and member of the 139th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total attendance of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the fourth part, the name of Part Four, Chapter I, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 140 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 141st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 155 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 142 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 143rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 144 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 145th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 146 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 147 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 148th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 149th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 150 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 151st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 152 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 153rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 154 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 155th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter III, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 156 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 157 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 158th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 159th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 160th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 161st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 162 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 163rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 164 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 165th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter IV, the title of the head, the name above the member and Article 166 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 167 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 168th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 169 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 170th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 171st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 172 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Part Five, the name of Part Five, Chapter I, the name of the head, the name above the member and the article 173. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above members and Article 174. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 175th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 176 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 177 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 178th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 179th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 180th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 181st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 182 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the name of the head, the name above the member and member of the 183rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 184th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 185th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 186 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 187 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 188th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 189th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 190th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 191st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At Part Six, the name of the sixth part, the name above the member and Article 192 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 193th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 194 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 195th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 196 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 197 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 198th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 199th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 200th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 201 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and Article 202 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 203rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 204 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 205th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 206 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 207 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 208th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 209th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 210th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 211 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 212 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 213th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At part seven, the title of Part Seven, Chapter I, the title of the head, the name above the members and Article 214 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 215th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 216 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 217 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 218 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 219th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 220th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In part 8, the title of the eighth part, the name above the member and member of the 221st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 162 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic to Article 221. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 222 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 223rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 162 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 224 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 162 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 225th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 226 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – one, voted 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 227 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 228th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 229th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 230th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 231st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 232 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-18-0.u16937	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 164 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on payment services in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – four abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on payment services. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – four abstentions – there are no votes, seven of the 168 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against –no one, with abstention – there is no vote, 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 165 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that – 158, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, six of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, five of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, five of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 1 submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Petrovic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 165 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halima and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – three abstentions – there are no votes, two of the total of 167 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted six out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Biljana Hasanovic Korac, together submitted the first amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, abstentioned – one, voted four of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – the list of candidates for the selection of one member of the National Enlightenment Council. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a list of candidates for the selection of one member of the National Educational Council, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I also remind you that there are two candidates on the list of candidates for the selection of one member of the National Educational Council and that you can only vote for one candidate. I am voting on the proposal of the University of Novi Sad to elect Professor Rade Doroslovaki as a member of the National Educational Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 12 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Professor Dr. The work of Doroslovaki for a member of the National Educational Council. I am voting on the proposal of the University of Novi Sad to elect Professor Mirjana Segedinac as a member of the National Educational Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Professor Dr. Mirjana Segedinac as a member of the National Educational Council. Let me congratulate Professor Radet Doroslovaki of his election as a member of the National Educational Council on your behalf and wish him much success in his work. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 16 December 2014, at 13 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to the injuries of members 107 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against - one, with abstentions – there is no vote, 148 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 16 December 2014, at 13 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 17 December 2014, at 10 o'clock and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against - one, with abstentions – there is no, there was no 140 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 17 December 2014, at 15 hours and 29 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - one, abstention - there is no vote, 134 of the total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
