ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11005	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 119 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to the next item of the agenda. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended today by the following MPs: Zoran Zivkovic, Dr Miljana Nikolic, Momo Colaković, Aida Ćorović and Dr Milorad Mijatovic. I'm sorry, let's just check something on the agenda. It is on the agenda – Proposal for the appointment of the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If anyone has any other knowledge, make a suggestion immediately. You have received a proposal from the Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to appoint a deputy secretary-general, with the agreement of the president of the National Assembly and the biography of the proposed candidate. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so and have not done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening an investigation into the proposal for the appointment of Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does Proposer Jana Ljubicic, Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, want to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) Does anyone want to discuss this topic with the MPs? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the search on the proposal for the appointment of the Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are moving to the 6th item of the agenda – NATIONAL IMPLEMENTATION REPORT FOR TOURATION FOR 2013. One year, with proposals from the Joint Committee on Human and Manine Rights and Gender Alignment, Justice Committee, State Administration and Local Self-Government and Child Rights Committee. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of a single search on the 6th item of the agenda, I have called for representatives of the Citizens' Protectors to attend today's session, and that is Milos Jankovic, Deputy Citizens' Protector Ljerka Acimovic, Head of the Committee for Reports and Projects of the Citizens' Protectors and Jelena Jelić, Jr. Adviser of the Citizens' Protectors. You received a report on the work of the National Tortoire Prevention Mechanism for 2013. You have received proposals for conclusions submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government and the Committee on the Rights of the Child of the National Assembly. Before opening a single search, I'd like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the curiosity of the MPs. According to Articles 192, 193 and 238. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the 2013 report on the work of the National Tortrum Prevention Mechanism, with proposals from the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, the Committee on Justice and State Administration and the Local Self-Government and the Committee on Child Rights. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word has Meko Omerovic, president of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11006	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear citizens' representatives, dear knees and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs today will be very important in the near future for a very simple reason. This is the first time the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has discussed the annual report of the national torture prevention mechanism. It is about the 2013 report, which was discussed by the three Assembly committees, as stated by the president, and which submitted the proposals for their reports with the conclusions we are offering you today for discussion and for this annual report. What I want to point out and what all citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know, because this is a young institution, this is an institution in turn, devoting awareness that continuous comprehensive control and effective prevention mechanisms are far easier when they are established at national level. The option protocol, with the Convention against Tortrum and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating penalties or procedures, provides for each Member State to form or determine one or more independent mechanisms to prevent torture at national level, or a national torture prevention mechanism. In this respect, the work of this national mechanism in our country is carried out by the Citizens' Protector in co-operation with the ombudsmans of the AP and associations, whose statute provides for the objective of association, promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms. The option protocol with the Convention against Tortrum and other cruel non-human or humiliating penalties or proceedings is one of the most significant international instruments for the protection of human rights, whose direct aim is to prevent torture or any other form of abuse. The national mechanism, which was established by us, was brought to life by amendments to the Law on July 28th 2011. What we have in front of us today is the second annual citizens' protector's report. Therefore, this national mechanism should, first of all, deter all state authorities and officials from any form of abuse and direct the state towards creating living conditions in places where persons deprived of freedom are located, in accordance with generally accepted standards. In that sense, the reports, which are before you today, are also an attempt by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to perform, in this case, that function of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is often forgotten by us, which is the control function of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So we have mechanisms, we have instruments that as a control body in the capacity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia through our committees control how state authorities, institutions respect all that we have written down by our laws and by the Constitution. We can see very clearly and precisely from the Report on the National Tortre Prevention Mechanism for 2013 that the Citizens' Protector has fully presented activities in carrying out the work of the National Prevention Mechanism in the Part-Corruption, above all, to the protection and promotion of human and minority rights and freedoms. All that we offer today to MPs for adoption is an attempt for us, as a legislative body, which will use our control mechanism, to advance above all the treatment of detainees and persons who are on prison terms in criminal and correctional institutions, and then to persons who are placed in psychiatric institutions or some other mental illness homes, as well as persons who are in transit, i.e. asylum seekers and who are in the institutions that are intended to do so. Our three committees have offered you three different conclusions, each of them within their jurisdiction, and I believe that by adopting these conclusions, we will also give an additional incentive to the Citizens' Protector that through everything the law allows us, through the mechanisms available to us, we will improve the position of human rights and freedoms and religious freedoms of all those who are in these institutions. Because there's only one difference between us and all these people being treated through reports. We are at large, and they are deprived of freedom, and I would like through this report and the report that will follow us as a society to show a clear willingness that we want to improve all forms of human rights and freedom and that applies to all people no matter where they are at present and why they are in this or that institution. So much for getting started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11007	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) The word is Milos Jankovic, Deputy Protector of the Citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11008	It is my pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, to address you for considering the annual report of the National Tortocra Prevention Mechanism for 2013. The circumstance that is on today's agenda is an indicator of consciousness, as well as definitions of an absolute ban on torture and abuse in the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the ban on torture and other forms of inhumane and humiliating treatment or punishment has been established by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, then by numerous international and regional instruments. It has been established as a universal value of banning intentional infliction of pain or severe physical mental suffering, and in order to receive notice of recognition, intimidation, pressure or any form of discrimination, and that is, if that pain is inflicted by an official person or any other person with its express or tacit consent. It is recognised that the excess victims of facial torture are deprived of freedom, i.e. persons limited to freedom of movement and subject to restrictive rules in institutions where they are located, and these institutions are not only those normally recognised, such as police stations, detention units or prisons. The persons deprived of freedom are also persons who are housed, limited to freedom of movement in psychiatric hospitals, in a number of residential institutions of social protection, in shelters for foreigners, as well as in any other places where they are located. Officials in these institutions are forbidden to use any form of violence against those persons. From the point of view of human rights, the biggest problem of these closed institutions is that these institutions are closed, inaccessible to the public and inaccessible to control mechanisms that could in a timely manner conclude whether any abuse has been committed against these persons. As MP Meho Omerovic stressed in his opening statement, I will not take up the team's time on the occasion, but the Republic is a member of all the most important conventions related to the ban, i.e. the prevention of torture and I remind you that the representatives of the Republic of Serbia are members of the most important bodies both the UN subcommittee for the prevention of torture and the European Committee for the Prevention of Tortrum. Serbia ratified the option protocol along with a convention against the torture of the Member States and, in accordance with its commitment in 2011, set out the National Mechanism for the Prevention of Tortrum and that of the Citizens who carry out these tasks in co-operation with the province's ombudsmans and civil society organisations. The report, which is presented before you, shows the most significant activities of the Citizens' Protector in carrying out the tasks of the national preventive mechanism, as well as a review of the situation in the area of protection against torture or abuse, or the position of persons deprived of liberty in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the report noted that there is no torture in Serbia as a system-organised and encouraged phenomenon, however, it has been indicated that there are individual cases of abuse that the authorities tolerate. Of course, we will agree that in case such tolerances are in greater scope and in their continuity, they can point to a systemic character. That is why one of the most important messages sent in this report is a message to the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia to step up efforts to combat impunity for torture. I wouldn't take away your precious time. Thank you for listening to me. If you have any questions necessary to clarify this report, I am available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11009	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11010	Thank you, President. Dear representatives of the Citizens' Protectors, today we have a very important topic ahead of us, primarily important to the citizens of Serbia. Given that we are relevant and competent to assess the conclusion of the Citizens' Protector, when it comes to this issue, I will say at the very beginning that the SPS parliamentary group will undoubtedly support this conclusion in the voting day and that it no doubt accepts all the conclusions that I will comment on. It is not disputed that Serbia has done much, especially in the legislative sense of the words, when it comes to fighting torture, against inhumanity, against every form of humiliation. It is not disputed that we have done huge steps in this direction and in terms of EU convergence, accepting standards not only of the EU, but of the entire international community. That is why I am leaving, pointing first of all to the Convention against Tortres and other cruel, inhuman and humiliating criminal proceedings brought by the UN Assembly. The Convention against Tortrum and other cruel, inhuman and humiliating criminal proceedings is an international instrument of the UN which we have implemented by accepting through the optional protocol with the UN Convention something which is significant, applied, or affirmative in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the best possible way. In this sense, the Ratification Act, June 20, 1991, was also adopted and Serbia has since begun to respect what is called an international legal document, what is called international instruments and what is now effectively applied to our happiness. How? First of all, it is a good finding that there are no organised forms of torture in Serbia. However, we in the SPS parliamentary group strongly support your second view – that it is unacceptable to tolerate individual forms of torture. Why? Simply because the tolerance of individual forms of torture will turn this type of torture into a rule, and then we face a far more difficult problem than it is. We're becoming a state that won't, and I'm sure it won't be, but it would show that we would be a state that couldn't stand up to one of these monsters that's being talked about today. Given that I come from a profession that mainly deals with matter, law enforcement, and enforcement of criminal sanctions, it is logical to comment on the part that is related to the treatment of convicts regardless of age and persons under treatment where torture forms, or inhumane treatment, may appear. You'll allow me to taxfully comment on some well-intentioned suggestions, which the SPS parliamentary group suggests this time from the heart. It is true, Mr Jankovic, that your conclusion contains what is indisputable, which is that a comprehensive representation of the activities of the Citizens' Protector in the conduct of the national torture prevention mechanism in the exercise of constitutional and legal jurisdiction is given, bearing in mind that the Constitution provides guarantees to ensure the prohibition of inhumane conduct and torture. In this direction, the SPS parliamentary group really has no reason not to commend your activities. I'm going to briefly comment on them because there were a lot of them, so I'm going to make some of them think that they're in police administration tours, criminal correctional institutions, special hospitals, etc. observed certain phenomena that may prevent any kind of inhumane behaviour. I know that a roundtable was held in Novi Pazar with the topic – police treatment against the persons deprived of freedom and prevention of torture, that this same visit was made at the Criminal Correction Office in Šapac, in the Novi Sad County Prison, the Police Administration in Vranje, that they were visited by police administrations in Prijepolje, Priboj and that indeed, not to mention further, there were many of your activities in any case to praise, that I am not talking about visiting the Gerontological Centre “Ljum” in Ruma, the Criminal Correction Office in Sombor etc. It's for all praise. There is what you do, and you make it a fact that on the spot all the circumstances that can indicate that everything that is related to prevention is improved from the possibility of torture and inhumane behaviour. However, why did I say that certain suggestions could be given? First of all, starting with the fact that our criminal and correctional institutions and criminal correctional institutions, and also accommodation facilities in police institutions are literally spoken in the language of the people, not responding both to the legal regulations and not to the standards prescribed by the EU. We can't always be quite rigid when it comes to certain phenomena that relate to both accommodation and treatment in the rooms that bind both to detention units, globally to criminal and correctional institutions, and also to hospitals. You know and you convinced yourself when you went around all these centers, detention centres and institutions to see something that is inadmissible in any case, but on the other hand, it's practically impossible to do differently. How? Simply because prison cells contain a significantly higher number of convicts than those prescribed, a significantly higher number of beds, significantly more difficult conditions for life given the drowsiness of that space, given the inability, and particularly the financial inability to change such a practical state, i.e. to correct it for the benefit of convicted persons. Starting with coming from Uzic, a city where there is a county prison, I have to point out that this is exactly the kind of phenomenon that is present in Užica and I know that you were in Uzic and I know that you had the opportunity to talk to the warden, and also on the spot to make sure that you were in a state of action. It is certainly not appropriate and in any case it does not correspond to what not only the national torture prevention mechanism, not only the prison regulations, but also what implies respect for man does not satisfy in the sense in which it is a fundamental right, human law. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia, given the fact that our huge financial problem is precisely a lack of money, a lack of resources to build modern criminal and correctional institutions, to adapt to the standards that have long been prescribed in the EU, that we know exactly how many cubic or square meters of space is the obligation to respect one convicted person, we in Serbia, Mr Jankovic, as you know, do not have. The next thing you noticed and what the SPS parliamentary group supports in your conclusion is inadequate medical treatment for convicted persons. That is true, but in that direction it should also point to two facts that cannot yet be doubted. First, that indeed in all criminal and correctional institutions there are health care services. We can't say that there's a criminal correctional institution or an institution where that health care isn't provided. The question arises – is it provided in an adequate way? The question arises – is it available to the extent necessary, and especially to the extent to which it is required under certain rules? Of course we haven't reached a satisfactory level in that direction either. Of course, there are problems in this direction that go to the burden of convicted persons and detained persons. However, when it comes to controversy whether health care is removed from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and taken under the Ministry of Health, I will state one personal position in which I am going to point out that I am not sure how productively we will do anything in this regard again, bearing in mind one fact that is fundamental to me, and that is that everyone who provides health care, first of all, doctors must act not only professionally, but also in accordance with the Code, ethics, the Hippocrates oath, so that at least from that aspect we cannot doubt those who provide health care. The question arises: whether there are conditions in detention units that this health care is adequately provided and what I am as a defender during the tour of my defenders, i.e. those who have been deprived of liberty, is that in detention units, and especially in criminal and correctional institutions, this health care cannot be provided at an optimal level. This is why it is a practice for this health care service to be provided by convicts to medical institutions that are indeed in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health, which are homes of health, hospitals, hospitals, etc. What do I mean? On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, we stand at the view that health care should be raised to a high level, but also at the view that we cannot condemn those who provide such health care in criminal and correctional institutions because there is indeed both confidence and personal experience to do so. As regards the following parts of the conclusions relating to the improvement of relations, i.e. the conduct of officials within the framework of criminal and correctional institutions against convicted persons, there will be an unequivocally and clearly support the conclusion and indeed strongly condemn all those phenomena of inhumane conduct, torture, humiliation, etc., which there is no doubt, but even more strongly we will condemn and support you in that no single case should be tolerated and silenced, not one single occurrence of any such act that implies not only tolerance, but the repetition of tolerance, even the stimulation of torture and inhumane treatment. I will refer to something that happened in 2009 where the UN Committee made one decision that found that Serbia violated the Tortocra Convention. It is an initiative launched by the Humanitarian Law Fund, the Centre for Minority Rights and the European Centre for Roma Rights in December 2004 on behalf of Besima Osmani, where a play was submitted for a cruel, inhumane and humiliating treatment of that person. I believe that in this part of the commentary is neither further nor necessary, because disclosure to citizens of names and last names can also be harmful, but it is also important that citizens recognise that our state has and how large obligations, obligations to all the international documents it has signed. Since we are signatories to the Convention, since we have passed the Law on the Ratification of the Convention, we have the right to say that according to what has been decided that in the territory of the Serbian State there was then a violation of human rights in the form of inhumane and humiliating treatment, Serbia has taken measures that mean overcoming these problems and what the Socialist Party of Serbia and our parliamentary club supports is that these measures that have been done and now seem, particularly through your activities, have produced results. Thus, compared to the previous 2013 report, there is no doubt a smaller number of procedures, i.e. examples or cases relating to torture or inhumane conduct. Finally, I would like to point out something that I initially cited as the wish of the SPS Parliament Club to improve, through well-intentioned suggestions, everything that is stated in the conclusion. We do not seem to be covered here by something that should have been covered, which is that this Parliament has helped to accelerate and stimulate the fight against torture through legislation. By making and proposing, I hope that soon it will be in the assembly procedure of the law on the execution of criminal sanctions, one has already been brought, we have introduced a new institution, and that is the judge for the execution of criminal sanctions. Unfortunately, there's no conclusion to that. Why do I say sorry? Because it is in the jurisdiction of the judge to carry out criminal sanctions precisely to exercise control, control, initiate proceedings, participate in proceedings until the final end of any person who wrongs or violates obligations relating to the treatment of convicted persons. Therefore, it is one of the areas of jurisdiction or one of the jurisdiction of the judges for the execution of criminal sanctions. This institution is also useful and I am convinced that in practice this institute, i.e. the judge for the execution of criminal sanctions in many ways, will help to prevent, not only, but to act specifically on all phenomena and then we will be convinced that these phenomena will be much less and that your next report will be more positive and positive than before. Secondly, which is undeniable, this parliament has just been established by the Commission for the Control of Criminal Sanctions, and at the head of this commission is our esteemed fellow MP, Meja Omerovic. We will, through this Commission and how we will have the opportunity to gain insight into the effective situation of criminal correctional institutions, criminal correctional institutions and to act as a parliament, but not binding, because I believe that we do not need to commit the authorities of the executive authority, but rather to point out to the Ministry of Justice, to submit representations to the courts, to initiate procedures so that everything you have pointed out and sanctioned, but also through sanctions, did at the same time prevent such occurrences from happening anymore. I'm going to do it again, so I don't further, that the SPS Group will support your conclusion. Your conclusion really gives you something that is an extremely good demonstration of the fact that you are fighting torture and that we are encouraging, commending you, and at the same time asking you to continue the fight that you have been doing for a long time, and we believe that it will be even more successful, and that we will give you unselfish support and help where we can give it within the limits of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11011	Thank you. Are any of the other reporters answering for word since there's no one in the system? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11012	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Citizens' Protectors and honourable fellow MPs, I have come to the floor on this report, practically from two corners. Since I'm not an expert lawyer, I didn't want to get too involved in some legal aspects of this report. What particularly intrigued me is a few details where it is said, in the beginning Mr Jankovic said that there is no torture as organized in Serbia, nor is it encouraged, but there are individual cases of abuse that the authorities do not see, simply to say so – they tolerate. Then, when the report is read, it is said in the text that the situation of convicted persons in the criminal sanctions system in Serbia has shortcomings, that these correctional institutions have been overpopulated, then that the activities of the educators in the work with the convicts have been slowed down, and what I am interested in, exactly what I want to stress, is said - the workload of the convicted is insufficient. When we imagine a situation that each of us can happen that because of any traffic violation or any other possibility of getting into an institution like this and being mixed up, or in a group of serious criminals or returnees, where his day runs long and there is no work engagement, my question is actually about a law that defined work in the public interest. I'm sure you'll all remember, that there is a possibility for convicts of up to three years in prison or for fines to be employed, or for this work to be in the public interest. If we see the state of our municipal structure in the settlements, in the cities, I come from Novi Sad where during the summer there were no workers to cut grass or there are now no workers to clean the sinks, etc., there is a whole range of public sector interests, or in the public-communal sector, where these people who have a sentence of up to three years, and who are practically mixed with much more serious criminals, would have the opportunity to work. Normally, the law predicted that they would work with their consent to jobs that would not humiliate them, so the law correctly defined that it would in no way endanger neither the health nor the dignity of such a kind of prisoner. I think in this situation where we are today, in a major economic crisis, in problems in the functioning of public-communal enterprises, in the illicit employment of these companies, this would be an ideal space for these people to engage. The other thing I was interested in, when I saw - the health care shortages in prisons are very numerous. I was surprised that in the 21st century, doctors were looking at patients without taking off their patients, dressed like that, there are no protocols in the course of these examinations, then there are no systematic examinations at all. One more thing, especially when it comes to the abuse, which is certainly in prisons, we don't even know much, many things are certainly not published, unfortunately when in the media some drastic example of abuse or murder in prison happens, it means, says – doctors generally do not realize their role in protecting against abuse, in some cases they fail to identify and describe the injuries observed in detail, and generally do not give an opinion on the causal link between the applied measure of coercion and the explanation that the injuries have occurred. In other words, even those who are injured are practically hiding because they are afraid of some retribution in the middle where they are then. So I think that these are some things that should be much more drastic, much more work, so they can't miss us. The third thing, seeing what was visited by the Citizens' Protector team, was 44 police stations, 11 prisons, psychiatric hospitals, etc., and I was particularly interested in the position of minors and women in prisons. Since I am the deputy president of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, this area has been particularly interesting. It's said here that it's settled, as is the problem with these regulars and other prisons, by 200 faces. Normally it is a great crowd, practically in areas that are not adequately equipped. I say minors, where minors are concerned, create strong informal systems and create the inability of adequate treatment, especially since these children are far away and from their families so they do not have enough frequent visits. In this regard, I would nevertheless use the opportunity to draw attention to those conclusions made by this Committee in relation to this document, or to the mechanism for preventing torture when it comes to children's rights, as Vice-President of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. So I just want to look back at some of the parts in this conclusion, so I'm going to read those parts. As a result of the assessment by the Citizens' Protectors that a large number of children are still placed in resident social protection institutions, because there are no conditions for their care in the community, that these children are excluded from the regular social environment on an inappropriately long deadline in which they do not reach, that is, in time they lose the social and other skills necessary for life outside institutions, that material and other living conditions in those institutions are not in line with the applicable standards and that the lack of staff is expressed. The number of children located in these institutions is well above the prescribed maximum and in a large number of cases the opposite of the regulations are settled together with adult users, as well as that the existing shortcomings in the institutional childcare system contain elements of inhuman or humiliating treatment. That's what was concluded about this part of your report. Of course, it is recommended in that conclusion that the National Assembly undertakes that competent national authorities step up activities to deinstitutionalisation, i.e. reducing the capacity of existing resident social protection institutions. From what I've seen, there's a figure of 50 there, from these 200 to reduce to 50 maximum, i.e. a reduction in the capacity of existing residence institutions of social protection. A special consideration given in this conclusion, which refers to resident institutions of social protection for children with mental or intellectual disorders located in isolation, and given the position of the UN Committee, against torture that isolation of persons with severe or acute mental disorders is not permitted, as is the position of the UN special rapporteur for torture, that the isolation of those persons at any time constitutes cruel, inhuman or humiliating treatment. This is where we asked, i.e. the Committee adopted that the National Assembly obliges the competent state authorities to take all the necessary measures to stop the resident social protection institutions from holding the grandfather in isolation with mental and intellectual interference. We will, in any case, support this report as the LSV Parliament Club and welcome in general this practice that these reports are being brought on an annual basis, but we hope that these suggestions you have made for every practical institution that has been reviewed, that these improvements next year and the report will be seen and that these difficult assessments for certain things will not be repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11013	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11014	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Deputy Protector of the Citizens, this report is twice as useful. It is one of the best indicators that is the role of the Protector of citizens as an independent regular body, and I think that, in addition to being a long-standing practice in developed EU countries and in the international community, I think, above all, of highly developed countries, that such reports are being submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption and for making certain recommendations. For the first time as the National Assembly, we are considering one such report, and it seems to us that, given the situation that the government has both in detentions, in prisons, in grantological centres, in treatment institutions, in correctional homes, etc., one initial chapel outside, indeed one objective and unbiased view of this situation, in order that we all as a society, and that all these institutions fully justify the purpose and purpose of their existence, which is the healing, resocialization and preparation of persons deprived of liberty for life after the lack of freedom. Tortrum prevention is the best cure against torture. We've mostly talked about post-festum so far. There's been torture, abuse, inhumane treatment, and then we're looking for cause. This is now an indication of prevention, and it seems to me that my conclusion is not only a lack of money, not just a lack of professional staff, medical staff, health care staff, the biggest problem. I think the biggest problem in this case is the mental heritage and the existence of closed systems that have been incarcerated for decades, detention units, prisons, etc. They live by some of their own rules. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia has arranged for all its positive regulations, by the Constitution, by many laws, by adopting all international conventions a normative part of the prevention against torture. However, if we look at the norm and what we have in practice, we have one terrible imbalance, according to my modest estimate, one imbalance that is inadmissible. In this part, we see the difference between the extraordinary normative arrangement of a particular area and a very poor situation in practice. No matter what we've had before, external forms of surveillance and various internal controls, what I said at the beginning of my discussion, it seems to me that this network that's been going on for decades, and that under quotes, the uninterest of the outside world that's going on inside is the main cause of this situation that's pretty bad. What is truly commendable and encouraging is that we will have these reports on a regular basis every year in the coming years, then, that last year after the first report which did not discuss the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and above all thanks to the Ministry of Justice and Mr Selakovic, a lot has been done to improve above all, hygienic and accommodation capacities and adapt capacities for detained persons, persons deprived of liberty or persons who for some other reason, for hospital treatment, or in criminal jurisprudence, or persons who have been distracted in development, they have been somewhat improved primarily by accommodation capacity. It is again, let me say, the first, mild, symbolic, but a good result of that first report that I say was not discussed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The national torture prevention mechanism is represented by the Convention against Tortres and other forms, cruel, inhumane, humiliating penalties it exists to warn the national authorities and the Member States that they are obliged to consider recommendations and enter into dialogue on possible measures of application and that Member States will publish and distribute annual reports of the national torture-fighting mechanism. This is what I say, the second report and above all represents Serbia's commitment to its non-citizens. But while this most often implies that these are persons who are deprived of freedom for committing a crime, or some other reason, I point out, above all, to our public that they are often persons who are ill or disturbed by development, or they are old persons who are in gerontological centers. So, in addition to that aversion that our society traditionally takes to persons deprived of freedom, and you do so in your report, and you say that often imposing, intervening the international community and signing international conventions, is perceived as some kind of pressure on the outside, that we change some of our habits that are good in our opinion. That part also mentions the populist push for the reintroduction of the death penalty, for tightening criminal sanctions and for chemical castration. These are topics that we can really discuss both now and on other occasions, but it seems to us, of course, we are not advocates of the reintroduction of the death penalty, but we are as a parliamentary group to advocate and advocate the introduction of chemical castration and to tighten criminal sanctions for two reasons. The first reason is that our courts, and the analysis shows this, most often use a mechanism to mitigate the fines below the legal minimum, and in the most serious crimes, and in the robbery, and in the rape, and in other serious crimes, in organized drug trafficking groups. Because of the fact that our society is faced with frequent phenomena, frequent returnees, paedophiles, and the fact that pedophilia is primarily a disease, that the object of sexual attention is a child, that because of numerous psychiatric problems, this person is unable to establish stable deep and emotional relations with an adult. If one repeatedly commits such a crime in the opinion of our parliamentary group, it requires chemical castration, because it exists in many highly developed countries and justified the purpose and purpose of its existence. The conclusions you have made, and you have visited 77 places, institutions, prisons, detention units, police stations, you have made 263 recommendations, and these are very good and correct and objective analysis of the situation, making recommendations that are necessary in our opinion. What you see from the report on the tour of all institutions and institutions, to take the steps you propose, at least money is needed, it is primarily a great deal of goodwill, it is necessary to change a number of stalemated habits and it is necessary to provide minimum hygiene conditions for a person who is not free and one human, human relationship to them. The first thing that falls into the eyes of the report of all institutions is that the sanitary nodes do not work, that during the doctor's examination the most often occurs there are non-medical staff who perform their layical surveillance of the medical examination, then that there is no privacy in either the use of the toilets, the shower cabins, that the rooms, in addition to being overpopulated, are mostly ruined, not painted, that they do not meet the elementary hygiene conditions, that therefore lowers the dignity of the person who is staying there, and thus destroys the dignity of all the people who work there, and thus the dignity of the state and of all its citizens, because all these institutions organised by the state and who have the purpose and purpose of their existence, the mirror of our society and our state. Because of this and because of these overcome habits and because of networking, because you notice something that we have long seen, that doctors who work with great respect for their profession very rarely cite injuries that occurred during torture or physical violence against these individuals. What is regularly lagging behind and what you state in your recommendations, it is the indication of the causal link between torture and injury. What does that prove to us? This proves to us that the physician who acts in this mental context is overcoming his relationship to the persons deprived of freedom. Secondly, periodic medical examinations are often missing, and then the most common medical documentation is not only available to doctors, but also to other persons, then faces, especially with psychiatric diseases are often unnecessarily tied to the bed, and even persons deprived of liberty, especially in the KZP homes for minors are often in terms of educational rather than medical care tied to the bed, which is wrong. Sleeping as a medical measure can only be ordered and justified by medical reasons only by a doctor of a particular specialty, and by no means an educator as some kind of educational measure, which is humiliating, and often the measure is expressed in rooms where other persons who are not tied to a bed, which is a double humiliation of all faces. Therefore, all kinds of recommendations, and we can only touch the psychiatric institutions of Kovin and the KZP for minors Valjevo, and the House for Children Disrupted in the Development of the "Veternik" and everywhere we will see the same habits, similar failures, the same relationship of those who need to deal with the treatment of those persons, those who need to be re-orientated by those persons, to prepare them for life outside of freedom, that, no matter what reason, temporarily deprived of liberty, they are never again found in that institution, to be useful members of our society with one inhuman relationship to such persons. Society does not give them enough attention and such a person will not feel the humanity and humanity of his society and of his community in which he lives, but will often come out of that institution, even more ready to commit crimes again and therefore the degree of return of persons who have such a relationship with them is quite large. Second, many treatment facilities, psychiatric institutions, are once again scheduled by society, and many people who simply stay in the hospital for social reasons for more than they need, so we also have a case in Kovin that there are often up to 1,000 people there. With such a large number of persons should also be understood by medical staff and workers who work there and educators, because they cannot in such conditions with few specialists doctors and less material resources, with a frequent lack of certain medicines, can not bring adequate programmes, individual rehabilitation and treatment for all persons, nor give them the necessary and longer attention, as necessary. That's why I would point out that it's a good thing that this topic finally opened up. This year, as the National Assembly, we passed a new Law on the execution of criminal sanctions. The problem treated by this law and the analysis of the situation is very similar to that of your report. People's MPs, and I among them, have pointed to a similar kind of problem that meets in your reports. Therefore, I think that this initial chapel and what is being debated in the National Assembly today, which is certainly followed by interested persons who are working in these institutions and who are located in these institutions and the competent ministries, I think this will be a new good practice for us as national representatives to contribute to the prevention of torture, cruel treatment, inhumane treatment of all those persons, that we also have an understanding of all the staff doing a very difficult and responsible job in difficult conditions and with non-enviable incomes. I'm saying, and by that I'm going to conclude, everything that's the main problems and that can be quite easily solved, they're not material in nature. They, above all, concern a different human relationship, the removal of a prevailing mental heritage in which only repression, beatings, forces and tortures were thought to produce their results in working with such persons, and as a right-wing party, we consider that only prevention, repression and education have full meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11015	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11016	I thank the president. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, all three committees, the Committee on the Rights of the Child, Gender Equality, Human and Minority Rights and the Committee on Justice supported the Report of the Citizens' Protectors. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with its responsibilities, requires and requires the representatives of the executive government, from institutions in the Republic of Serbia, to implement these conclusions within a year and to inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of this in writing. In this way we, not only strengthen the institution of the Protectors of Citizens and the institutions of independent bodies in the country, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and performs its control function, and most importantly, in my opinion, we are changing the system of the state, not because Serbia is currently negotiating chapters 23, 24, relating to human and minority rights and justice, but because this is our need, so changing the system is primarily something that Serbian citizens need. Since I am a member and a Committee on the Rights of the Child and the Committee on Gender Equality, I will present my vision and vision of my colleagues from the NS Parliamentary Group on Recommendations, based on these recommendations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as an order to our institutions for enforcement. The Committee on the Rights of the Child has given special attention to two facts. The first is to disperse and practically abolish in a large number of institutions where a significant number of children are placed. I think it's important to say two very important things. First, the lack and unpreparedness of these children from such institutions was observed later on for life and therefore should be abolished, but on the other hand, it is very important that we continue and strengthen the support of the biological family. So, from these institutions, when we reduce them, we must not only strengthen the biological family although it is in the first place, we must strengthen the capacities of local self-government in this sense and strengthen the foster care and provide conditions for these children from these institutions, since it is cited as a problem that they have often been isolated, that they have not had adequate conditions, so they return either to the biological or foster families, which requires strengthening the basic family but also the foster care and, of course, local mechanisms to succeed. Another very important thing is the recommendation that these institutions be transformed and abolished. It is very important because of the professions of employees to say that the abolition of these institutions does not mean that employees are left without a job. No, I don't. The aim is to transform these institutions and become support centres with a flexible approach in response to the individual needs of each child and family. The second recommendation dealing with the Committee on the Rights of the Child is to reduce isolation. I think the solutions to reducing isolation are, above all, strengthening the inclusion. Through the inclusion, we can place a large number of these children in primary schools, preschools with normal children. Another reason is the various projects that allow the isolation of children with special needs to be reduced in these institutions and, above all, I would mention the Open Hug project whose new activities will be realised by December 2015. Therefore, these institutions should be encouraged to compete for projects both in the country and abroad in order to apply as much as possible projects in terms of reducing isolation. The Human and Minority Rights Committee has focused on the following facts in the report, to allow social contact with prisoners in prisons, that they are not isolated, that the work of educators is strengthened and that dealing with illegal migrants and foreigners who intend to seek asylum in the Republic of Serbia improves the same. I would absolutely say here if I didn't think it was a problem at all. We have professional, qualified people working in these institutions. The only problem is that there are not enough of them, in my opinion, and that they are not adequately paid. I say this responsibly as a pedagogal, as someone who is in this profession, therefore, in this way and when we submit reports and when these reports, first and foremost to international institutions, we need to establish this fact. The Justice Committee also suggested two facts that in the event of violations of the basic rights of dried and detained persons, these proceedings do not cover up. I think that as we as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Civil Protection Institutions, and as a society at all, we should work on the transparency of all institutions and if we work on it, I think there will be less and less of any form of cover-up. I also agree with this recommendation that detention units in police stations should be more adequate and equipped and arranged and meet the conditions. I know that in a large number of detention units, both men and women are placed together. I know that many police officers buy a meal, lunch, breakfast, snack for those who are in detention units, and I think that with one control function that the institutions need to do can be improved. As far as inadequate healthcare is concerned, I would agree here with my colleague Jovanovic that there is absolutely a problem in terms, again not in the frame of our healthcare workers, but in conditions. So we need to improve the conditions in prisons for adequate health care and here. For example, I have an example that in a specialist prison hospital, its capacity is, for example, about 300 patients, usually around 700, and one doctor and three nurses work in the case of 500 or 700 patients. So it's not about the waist, it's about the conditions. When it comes to our prisons, we have a constant problem with overcrowding, but this time I would point out another problem. Our prisons, first of all Central Prison, are in the wider center of the city. It's a serious long-term problem. I know it takes a huge amount of money to move him out, but I think we need to set exactly the exact time when we're going to solve this problem. I would like, in the end, to conclude that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support the day to vote on this conclusion, to point out another problem that the Citizens' Protector was dealing with in the conclusions, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia through these three committees did not make recommendations to be implemented. It's the Istanbul Convention. I think we have problems in its application, that when we talk about torture, reduction, mechanisms to prevent torture, we must also talk about the implementation of an Istanbul Convention aimed at protecting domestic violence, protecting children and women from violence. Speaking of the Istanbul Convention, I think it's about time we took a few concrete measures, these are increased penalties, even changes to certain laws. When it comes to torture mechanisms and the killings of a large number of women, what would happen and how much would the killings be reduced if the institutions could isolate the bullies, shut them down, just do something concrete in terms of reducing the number of women's murders? I think it's important that we change the content of teaching when it comes to violence, that we have to work on prevention, from the earliest ages, primarily because of our children, and that we have to have systematic control of the abusers who stayed in health institutions for a certain time, and those health institutions have done their part of the job, but simply not enough monitoring what happens after that. Many of them stop taking medicines and become violent again. This is something that I think today in this debate should be said and that we, as a Assembly, MPs, as well as the Citizens' Protector, should take into account the application of the Istanbul Convention in some subsequent period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11017	Thank you. The next speaker is National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11018	President-in-Office of the Assembly, Mr Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we today have a report here in front of us on the national mechanism for the prevention of torture, namely the Report of the Citizens' Protectors on this matter and reports with conclusions and recommendations of the three Assembly committees. This is a topic that requires the commitment of all MPs to the problem and the fact that there are cases of abuse in institutions for the maintenance of sanctions, police stations or in places where certain persons are in custody. That's not disputed from this report. The aim of the sanctions in a regulated society or state is, on the one hand, the sanctioning of a person for a criminal offence or offence committed and, on the other hand, the deterring of that same person to commit the same crimes or offences in the future. But in part two, the sanctions aim to prevent or deter other persons from committing crimes and offences. What is the characteristic of the state and the existence of the state is that the state provides and regulates what is a crime or offence, through disposition and sanctions foresees what is sanctioned and that the regulated state and society do not leave it to the verse, do not leave it to the masses, leave it to other unauthorized persons to punish the perpetrators of these crimes in the way they consider it desirable. In some disorganized societies that have some characteristics of prehistoric communities, we have rocks, we have humiliations through the passage through places, cities, where out of the crowds of people are sanctioned and humiliated, they and their family. We are now asking ourselves a question – are such and similar cases happening in our society? That's the purpose of this report. This report says we have such cases, not from the mass, but from the system, from the part of the system. How? That's what it's called here. Not directly, by the state promoting torture, but by allowing it, that is, the authorized and the official persons with the silent consent of that torture. These are cases in which detainees and prisoners, persons in detention, are faced with physical harassment or harassment from persons who are in the same units, in a closed area, mental abuse. On the other hand, the inability to carry out their sentence in one civilized way. I've isolated several examples from your report. Let's say three places and not in some part of Serbia that we could say undeveloped, but, here, from Vojvodina. I took it out of the middle I came from. It says Sremski Karlovci Police Station - it is recommended that toilet hygiene be regularly maintained and thus ensure that the detained person performs physiological needs in clean and decent conditions. Then, within the holding room at the Sremska Kamenica Police Station, a tap is installed. We assume that this police station where the faces are held for up to 24 hours or 48 hours has no taps, so there is no water and, on the other hand, we realize that it is abandoned, messy and does not correspond to one civilized society. There's a similar situation at the titel police station. He says, in the holding room, the necessary painting should be done and it should be maintained regularly and the tap installed. So there's no water here either. It's similar with a police station in Vrbas, Frog, Zajcara and so on. So we realize that these are the spaces. We're talking about the first contact of the suspect, his first contact with the state, which he needs to apply to him for possible sanctions for a committed or potentially committed crime. That we do not speak of examples concerning the places in which those persons, if convicted, are subject to criminal sanctions, that is, the penalty for deprivement of freedom. Apart from the criminal sanctions imposed on them and imposed by the state, they, but I would say their family, have a second part of the sanctions imposed without clear rules in the form of torture, so, not enough air, closed rooms, unsuspected, persons in the room with different degrees and heights of punishment, the inability for those in that period to understand or to educate themselves or to prepare for the day they come out of prison, they do not have the possibility, but they are left to a social environment that is not adequate, that it forms them and creates them potentially, I would say, bad people, or citizens who will come with consequences and will not be able to adapt to a new life. When I discussed the issue of amnesty with Minister Selakovic repeatedly - for or against, I was talking about the fact that the state is doing nothing to resuscitate people who will be amnesty. Many of them, unfortunately, are back in these institutions to support the sentence. Unfortunately, those who are not returnees, or did not commit crimes or crimes again, did not find themselves in their midst because the state had done nothing, absolutely nothing, to resuscitate them. In that sense, it is good that this report is at a plenary session. It is good that all three committees have taken seriously the situation as it is in our institutions, I am talking about police stations, detention units and prison units, that she is inhuman and that although she is not produced by the state, the state is responsible for her because she does not do enough not to do so, and does not seem to be, that I am not reading from the report, because there is almost no sanctions for those responsible for this. There are no sanctions, there is no report in the report that a person has been prosecuted for allowing such a situation, that a procedure has been initiated and that the situation has improved on the basis of the procedure. It is not only the goal of sanctioning this person, but of repairing the situation in those institutions. I believe that the state must provide a part of its citizens who are sanctioned and who are in prison units, detention units, with humane conditions, and that they support the sentence, not to suffer an additional torture they are not condemned to. So nowhere in the sentence, not in the display, nor in the explanation, does it say that they will be subjected to torture. We watched in foreign films, mostly American, what it looks like one day of a prisoner in some countries they don't have, I'd say, a high degree of development, education and resociation of prisoners, but they're already there to experience some who are inclined to do so. That is why the state should take measures, no matter how weak, no matter how much trouble it may be in the Justice Ministry, which is not able to deal with these problems right now, but I believe that your regular controls, too, have often been very important and the fact that you will, as the Guardian of Citizens, point out these problems. The most shocking scene I remember as a law student is a visit to a psychiatric institution. It's just like a horror movie. I hope the state of that psychiatric facility isn't like that now. But I'm afraid based on what's written in these reports, that the situation is either worse. These people deserve both because of them and their families to treat them humanely, to have toilets, to have rooms painted, not to be left to themselves, etc. In that sense, we will support the report and the recommendations made. Maybe the recommendations could have been a little more direct, more explicit, but I think they're very correct anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11019	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11020	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in light of the reasons why I will vote for the conclusions of all three committees of the National Assembly, and the Committee on the Rights of the Child and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, as well as the Committee on Justice, which has been forwarded to the National Assembly on the basis of recommendations, I will spend a few minutes on a brief illustration of where we have any idea of torture and where the idea of banning torture is defined. These few minutes can be spent on the 20th century. The 20th century is the century for which we, the generation who lives it, who is born or will live in memory of it during the 21st century, is the century that I think will be remembered as a century in which people have made decisions on human rights, human rights in general and the century that will be remembered as these human rights, this voluntary decision by people to make human rights institutions the counterpoint of the most terrible crimes, the most massive destruction and the greatest destruction that human civilization has ever had until the 20th century. It's inconceivable at the 18th, 17th century to talk about torture. I'd like to think of it sometimes, because that fact that it took us the 20th century, that it took us 4,000 years of written civilizations and countless thousands of years that we don't have written data and that we remember that people have rights, that people are such beings that are equal before the law, that we remember that there is torture as an inhuman, humiliating, cruel, cruel treatment of another human being. That's what people agreed on. That's what people have estimated, that it can no longer be part of the culture they want to belong to if they accept the human rights system and that's what this is all about, and through a report that I'm going to comment on in chapters, for which the recommendations are written. You can see not only the thoroughness of the analysis and the Protector of the Citizens and the Province of Florida, because there is a report on the participation and of the Province of Florida on the tour and analysis not only in the recommendations, but in that we have the awareness that we may not talk enough about what torture is, that we are aware that perhaps our public opinion has nothing to do with being tortured, cruel, inhuman, inhumane, cruel, incarcerated, prison units, in psychiatric units or in institutions where children are without parental ageing. If we were to ask the public quite honestly -- what should be the life of the prisoners, the big question is what kind of a set of answers would be received in the broadest sense. This is the first time I have seen the task of all of us MPs, regardless of the conclusions we hope to adopt unanimously on the proposal of all three Assembly committees. Not only are the authorities that we, as the National Assembly, are obliged to change to a better state in detention units, prison units, psychiatric institutions, but we need to talk more about what I've offered, that 20 centuries is the counterpoint of the greatest good people have come up with, and that it's called the system of human rights, if it's not the greatest good, it's certainly the most human we could come up with by agreement to write down and that counterpunkt is the greatest evil that people have come up with. Maybe we should talk about it. The Constitution is in force in the Republic of Serbia. Article 25 states that no one can be exposed to torture, inhumane or humiliating treatment or punishment. The constitution is an expression of social will. This is our value. If we realize that the Constitution, as long as we don't change it, we can change it whenever the social will says it needs to change, then we have to talk about this, because otherwise it's just going to be written social will, not turned into daily action. There will be an example of just listening to what people say about constitutional solutions, not seeing what they do, which I deeply disagree with. I think you should always watch what people do, not what they say. In addition, there is a criminal law in Serbia that says in Article 137 – who abuses or treats another in a way that offends human dignity will be punished by prison for up to one year. That's the value we agreed on. If you abuse someone else, you go to jail. If you're proven guilty, of course. In the second position, he says, if, by applying the force of threat or by other illicit means, he inflicts great pain or severe suffering on others with the aim of obtaining from him or from a third party a confession, statement or other notification or that he or she or some third party is intimidated or illegally punished, and he or she does so from another initiative based on any form of discrimination, he or she will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. It's a defined crime that's in our hands. In the third position, if the work referred to in Article 1 and Article 2 of this article makes an official person in the field of service, the work referred to in Article 1 will be punishable by three months to three years in prison, and the work referred to in Article 2 will be punished by one to eight years in prison. As someone who deeply believes in the system of human rights, as someone who feels you must show that you have a sense of value in the system of human rights, I would like this member of the Criminal Law never to be applied, because it would mean that there is no criminal act of this kind of article 137, but if there is one, then I would like it to be applied so as to make it clear to all who committed the crime of any of these three positions of this Article 137. As I said at the outset, it took centuries and centuries to agree that inhumane treatment of another human being, that cruel treatment and abuse of another human being that is in a subordinate position, so the treatment of someone from the position of power, that torture, that is punitive and unacceptable, so we have come to the definition of torture, and I quote: “The torture marks every act that one person has deliberately inflicted pain or severe physical or mental suffering in order to obtain from him or some third party notice or recognition or punishment for the act that it or any third person who has committed or for whose execution of a suspect, intimidation of that person or the conduct of pressure on him, or for any other reason based on any form of discrimination, if that pain or suffering is inflicted by an official person, or any other person acting in its official capacity or subject to his pretense or pretense. This term does not refer to pain or suffering resulting exclusively from legal sanctions, inseparable from those sanctions or caused by those sanctions." This last sentence in the definition refers to countries that want to sign the Convention against Tortrum, but they want to contain a death sentence in their system. I'm deeply against the death penalty. I find it a good decision for the state to lift the death penalty from its system a decade ago. The death penalty is revenge, she's not justice. The death penalty is revenge, because it cannot be recalled. Anyone who in any way speaks in public opinion about the necessity of the death penalty must know that it works contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with all the laws and with previously adopted values, I hope that the death penalty is inadmissible. I have to say, this is a choice. This is good faith. You can always give up the fact that in the legislative system and in the social values system, you represent human rights as an inseparable and necessary part to even be called human society. Yes, you can. You can have a death sentence. There are several states in the United States. You can have physical punishment. It exists in countries near, Middle and Far Same, in countries like Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, China, Japan. You can have various types of physical punishment in your system of values, but there must also be a choice. We can't cheer people up, introduce a death sentence, and we can't have this value system adopted. He can't do both. I would return to my offer that much more than usual, we MPs are talking about the importance of preventing torture. Because you need to talk to people, talk about how people live in custody, how people live in prisons, and how people live in psychiatric hospitals. There is an offensive opinion that ends with a comment – who cares. The system of human rights exists to allow when you see that the human being that is most neglected in the social hierarchy, which is on the deepest margin of every social agenda... When that human being has guaranteed, fulfilled and satisfied its human rights, that means that we all have them. So it's very important to talk about how people live in prisons. When a person commits a criminal offence, no matter who it is, no matter how, when the investigation process goes through, when the trial goes through, when the proceedings are passed, the appeal process and the final appeal process, or the confirmation of the verdict, that person is then punished. Our theme is how many of us, majority or minority in Serbia, thinks that every day should be his suffering, not only because he is deprived of freedom, but because he has been denied that he has a book, which is denied to live on more than two square metres of space, which is denied the right to be safe in prison from the violence of the group, abuse of the group, or abuse of the official person, from rape, beating up, physical damage, intimidation, uninterrupted threats. So let's share comments on whether we consider the sentence to be a judicial verdict on the duration of the prison, a real punishment, or we think that he deserved it, or that she deserved much more in prison days, in detention days, because who cares. That's where our valuable attitudes differ, and you'll see it very soon. Every time you cultivate a valuable position that he is punished, that she is punished, it must also be respect for human rights and there must be no torture, you will get a remark about impatience towards a closed face. This remark is our theme. You'll get a statement that you need to kill him. You'll get a note she deserves. You will be understood because a person has been treated particularly cruelly, which has been abused, which has been a victim of violence, which has been terrifying to him because he has committed some crime, and whoever is doing torture is either an official person or an official person who will not respond to the suffering of one of the prisoners who is the victim of a group of other prisoners, then we call upon our moral code that he has earned it and that the act he has committed is terrible. That moral code, that moral code is deeply wrong and immoral. Our moral code has been recorded in the punishment that society has prescribed for him and has given to deprive him of his freedom to suffer as much as a human being suffers without freedom. It's a serious social issue and it's not just about the suffering of people in prisons. It is a tendency that is very often heard, that only justice is an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. Who doesn't have justice, and I'm telling you that if instead of a human rights system, there was a rule about an eye, a tooth for a tooth, in half an hour half the world would be half with one eye and half a tooth. If we have not strayed from the awareness that this torture and these optional protocols are well written, this is all the protection of citizens doing, but who cares, we will hardly have any real power through the recommendation that this Assembly should have in its conclusions when ordering the Serbian Government, when ordering the authorities in the Republic of Serbia that everything measured in the report is a serious flaw, to correct and correct within one year until the next report or within a year, if the weight of the problem requires. The good news from this report is that there is no systemic torture in Serbia. The less good news is that there are individual cases that the government tolerates. In my opinion, the worst news is that some informal group or our moral code is going to decide what someone deserved to happen to him because they committed a crime. It's a deeply immoral attitude. Finally, a brief discussion of what is in the report, about children who are located or in resident institutions of social protection because there are no conditions for their care and children without parental ageing. If we forget to ask ourselves how immoral it is to judge ourselves, by limiting ourselves to groups, it used to be called lynch, that we have a view of someone who lives in prison and has no right, I hope that at least these recommendations concerning the lives of children without parental care will have our full attention, that all those who are referred to are recommended, especially when it comes to children with metal and intellectual disorders, that they are not placed in isolation, that we understand that mental disturbances and disturbances in the development of interference are as much as any other person and that we are trying to enrich ourselves by taking much more care that all these children are not in institutions at the shortest possible time, but to find their foster family, as much as we all have a heavy job and that it is a long-term job. The optional protocols that we have introduced into our legal system I think this is the first time that they really have the right effects, since the conclusions that will be made, which have been submitted to us by the three Assembly committees, will oblige the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all the authorities in Serbia to act differently. My appeal is to make ourselves aware that we begin to discuss human rights differently and to remember that the shown complete social insensitivity of one's suffering is not shown social insensitivity to the suffering of only one. She's a message to all the members of that society. I think we're human beings who are culturally, with their history and tradition and whatever we've already done in the human rights system, we're a society that needs to work to prove that we're sensitive to everyone's suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11021	The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11022	Dear Presidents, dear fellow MPs, as Pavicevic would have said - dear guests, representatives of the institution for whose report and adoption and we are considering the conclusions of the three Assembly committees, as well as whenever the topic of human rights is on the agenda in parliament, there are not many MPs in plenary. We already recognize MPs who speak exclusively on the subject very passionately, very persistently, repeating almost the same sentences in their speeches regardless of which party they belong. It is the quality of the Serbian Parliament in a discussion of Serbian Parliament MPs to be stressed. It is very important that we are all absolutely unanimous when we need to defend the already existing degree of law, when we are unanimous in that we should not reduce the already acquired degree of human rights, and that is one great value in the Serbian Parliament. That's what we're supposed to do. What is very important when we consider conclusions and I want to tell both the public and the viewers who are monitoring this transmission, today we are not considering the report of the Protector of the Citizens on this torture protection mechanism. Today we are considering and discussing the conclusions of the three Assembly Committees, the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government. These three committees shall be responsible for this area of human rights, i.e. those three committees, through their conclusions to help implement, within the framework of the relevant ministries, what the recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors are in this report. You could hear in my colleagues' presentations and I will repeat it because it is very important and it is not often heard in our public, the media is not giving that much attention, that there is no torture in the Republic of Serbia today as an organized and stimulating phenomenon. There are individual cases, and what we need to worry about is -- which the authorities tolerate. They are controversial cases, they are lonely cases, but we have to admit, and the sooner we admit, the sooner we approach solving the problem that there are really lonely cases that we need to completely throw out of our operating system. What is seen in the conclusions of all three committees, where the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior are also suggested, that within the framework of institutions, sectors that they cover correct their work. I'll read you another piece from the introduction of the Citizens' Protector, Sasha Jankovic, who seemed very important to me to me to hear the public. It is that this report offers a clear and accessible direction towards society, without torture as an ideal goal. Yet, this ideal goal is not something that is unattainable. This report provides solutions, or steps, that we need to make towards that ideal. What is important is that these steps are neither expensive nor too complicated, in most recommendations it is about goodwill or lack of commitment to a particular problem. This is what we should be working on, that only within the framework of the institutions of these sectors dealing with these problems, which can eliminate these concerns and implement the recommendations given to the Protector, that only in this field we are more insistent on and work on. What is commendable is that by conducting and making this report, 77 visits to places where persons are deprived of freedom and based on these identified irregularities in the work have been addressed to the competent authorities by 263 recommendations. Compared to the number of persons deprived of liberty, compared to the processes that are happening in our country, the trials on detained persons, this, although large, number 263, we can, it seems to me, on the total amount of awareness of this small number of cases that are recorded, which may look like torture. It remains to make these recommendations and their realizations as quickly as possible, without excuse, without exception for the victims of torture, but also the dignity of all of us. And this is what I want to point out, where a human being is exposed to an inhumane act of no man's dignity can be complete. That is the essence of our work in parliament. It is not enough that only one part of society or just a certain number of individuals live well in a dignified way, so said counterpart Komic and other speakers during today. It is important that regardless of our moral code, to this impatience and somewhere, perhaps in our traditional education that we have toward those who are deprived of freedom, that they have done something wrong, that they should be removed from society, we cannot look that way in a black and white way. It is absolutely clear to all those who are at one point deprived of freedom, regardless of whether the trial is ongoing, whether they are in custody or are already being punished, we give one level of dignity that is prescribed, above all, international documents, and now our legislation is in line with European legislation and we need to look somewhere for the reasons for these recommendations that we have received, and we need to draw on our strength and will to really improve all these sectors that deal with this area. It should be our pride, first of all, that we have a small number of grudges, and also that we want to improve it, because, I say, until the last marginalised and smallest group in our society achieves the degree of our rights that we truly possess in our country, none of us can be satisfied, nor peaceful and capable, and especially we MPs in Parliament whose task is to bring this legislative framework within which we exercise our human rights in society. They encourage the many efforts of our institutions that have already been made in contact with the Protector of Citizens. It also encourages the impression that authorities responsible for the treatment of persons deprived of freedom are overruled by awareness of the necessity of eradicating abuse. So this is not something that someone orders from parliament or that someone orders from an institution such as the Citizens' Protector, but also simply in our authorities, which should implement it, there is this awareness that it must not be, but at the same time, I repeat, we must acknowledge that there are individuals among us who are still strange. We have to work to really change, to improve that moral code, and only by promoting positive examples can we make some shift in that change in the mentality of people in us. When it comes to the conclusions of these three committees, which we're actually going to vote for, I just want to point out a few things. In all three conclusions, all three committees are dominated by one assessment that this report has indeed been unanimously praised, that it has been assessed as comprehensively detailed and realistic and I hope that the MPs here will really vote unanimously for the conclusions of all three committees. What I also liked about Mrs Comic's exposure - changes in social insensitivity. That's one category that's not mentioned in this report, but that's something we need to think about. Not to quote now, there was a song but it said -- they came, so they took one group of people, paraphrasing, so they took the other, so they took the third, I didn't pay attention. Then one day they came for me and there was no one left to protect me. So somewhere in that light, we should all think about how we behave in our private lives, politically, professionally. Somewhere at every turn we really are the face of our country. It is a difficult role for us MPs, but we have to work on it. What we adopt by adopting these conclusions is what we are obliged to follow up on whether it is being implemented later. Every criticism of the current government in Serbia, especially from independent institutions such as the Citizens' Protector or some international organisations, I personally, build myself up, I don't speak on behalf of the parliamentary group, I see it as an incentive to make progress and in this light alone I want to change my behaviour and I want to help amend certain laws and legal frameworks within which we operate. I want to talk about the situation of women who are deprived of freedom in Serbia. Taking into account the assessment of the Citizens' Protectors that women are in custody for their little number in detention units mainly and often within the long term in isolation and isolation, which is, for men in the system of enforcement of criminal sanctions, a disciplinary or special measure that is time-limited, it is stated in these conclusions that the National Assembly obliges the competent authorities to take measures to take increased attention in order to reduce the phenomenon that detainees hold the detention rate in isolation and isolation. In particular, attention should be paid because it is because of the limited capacity, reduced capacity to receive all people who are in custody or are already at the service of their sentence that it is most often broken on the back of women, detainees or those who support the sentence. This should pay particular attention – what are the conditions in which they are located, they also have special needs in relation to men. What we're talking about and what needs to be important is that these people have some families, friends, relatives. We cannot by doing a certain criminal act to undermine these fundamental human rights and must have forms and be in that prescribed form that people can truly meet these basic needs. What I have also discussed in consultation with Mr Meh Meh Omerovic, who is the chairman of the Committee, is the need to pay attention to some of the new phenomena that are happening in our society, which the existing legal framework and existing legal solutions have not defined. It simply didn't exist in the previous period. We talked, and Mr. Omerovic said that when visiting certain sanctions institutions he noticed that members, Wahhabi have some rules and ways of functioning and one simple practical thing – it is a big problem to get them to shave. That seems like a little thing. I happen to point out that example. I want to tell you that we need to allow people to have their religious rights, their educational rights, their rights in health, education can come true, but all of this in a prescribed way and try to find a new form somewhere. Is it a way for some of the people who do not want for some of their religious or other reasons to be bound, forced to do certain things, or there is a legal framework for it? If there is no such thing as coercion now as torture, we need to find a solution to that. It doesn't work for anyone. So we need to change that legal framework, those rules, the rules on functioning and work to really improve, not just to evaluate something as incorrect and to stop. It's very important that we talk about children as well. I want to read you this conclusion. It seems to me that I have not been clear enough about the conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights that we need to change the legal framework to be precisely defined. Therefore, starting with the assessment of the Citizens' Protectors that there are significant shortcomings in the active individual and collective treatment work of a graduate with convicted persons, the National Assembly obliges the Ministry of Justice to improve the conduct of criminal sanctions in the institutions with regard to more intensive and effective work of an educator with convicted persons, to increase their labour engagement where possible, education and the highest level of religious rights, and to bring new or more effective work into line without delay which will enable the law to be implemented in this respect in accordance with the applicable standards. One more thing about children, which I wanted to talk about, about recommendations, or the conclusions of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. One of the conclusions of the Child Rights Committee mentions that the National Assembly obliges the competent state authorities to step up activities on deinstitutionalisation, i.e. reducing the capacities of existing residenceal institutions of social protection and their gradual decommissioning, i.e. to try to ensure that those children are cared for and integrated into the community and that they are in foster families and that they are able to achieve a more normal, human, healthier environment, where these children will really grow up in people who have normal, social, moral and other codes that are necessary, and which are certainly much easier to reach within families, whether foster or something like that. This institutional care for each of them, however good it is, cannot build those relationships that are built in the foster family. I hope that the public, and also colleagues in parliament and representatives of this mechanism, that you could conclude from my presentation that these recommendations of the Guardian of Citizens and these conclusions are going in this direction to really give each other a hand, to try based on your recommendations to either bring new legal frameworks or to amend existing ones, but what is most important, I will repeat once again, there is no torture as an organised phenomenon, only isolated cases, on which we will work to remove them in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11023	Since authorised representatives have used their rights, we are moving to a series of registered MPs, but I will give the word before that to Deputy Citizens' Protector Milos Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11024	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, is really an impression that there is a high awareness in this House of human rights protection. It is very important, because, as we have said, the state of Serbia is a signator of a number of conventions and I show you that next year the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture is coming to Serbia and the conclusions proposed in this House are something that this committee with full attention will monitor and what these proposed conclusions represent is one encouragement, one really clear and unequivocal path of the Serbian state to eradicate torture. Of course, it's not just an indication of our desire to meet our international obligations, but it's a matter of dignity for all of us who think it's expressed at this session at the highest level. Now I'm going to try to make a certain contribution to certain exhibitions, they've been very, very long, I'm going to try to be as short as possible. With regard to the presentation of honourable MP Nedja Jovanovic, the problems of lack of financial resources in the Republic of Serbia have been highlighted. It's undeniable. The protection of citizens took care of this aspect when making recommendations. However, as some previous exhibitors have pointed out, a large number of recommendations are not dependent directly on material resources, but are a matter of our will and determination to comply with the applicable standards. Mr Jovanovic has launched, or opened a dilemma that I don't think should stand, which is a question of whether it is necessary to remove health care from the prison system. Namely, the right to health care belongs to all convicted persons, and the situation where the physician is directly presupposed, i.e. the head of the prison, where, as certain MPs have indicated that it is a common phenomenon that the guard attends the examinations, it is a direct attack on the independence of the doctor in his work, and we believe that, in accordance with the current standards, it would really be necessary for the doctor to be under the authority of the Ministry of Health, not that his direct head is the manager, because all of these shortcomings that we have identified, which have been established in the previous exhibition, are precisely the result of such an organisation providing health care in Serbia's prisons and as one of the elements that will not allow, with the assistance of the knowledge and competences that doctors have come to determine the cases of torture, which would lead in the future to its eradication. Indeed, much progress has been made so far in improving the enforcement of criminal sanctions, not only in respect of this law, but in improving housing capacities. As regards the above, judges for the execution of criminal sanctions that are not related to the report, I note that this is the 2013 report, and then no judge for the execution of criminal sanctions was introduced, this was only introduced in 2014. The public defender welcomes this and we hope that the effects of introducing judges to enforce criminal sanctions will be positive. Parliament's Lazic raised a very interesting issue, and this is a question of working for the convicted. In fact, there are two questions, one question that she has raised, and that is why those who have been sentenced to prison for easier crimes, or for acts of up to three years, why they are not sentenced to work in the public interest. The public defender fully supports this idea. However, there is another question, and why is it that convicted persons who are being sentenced to prison are no longer employed? If convicted persons are engaged during the execution of prison sentences, many of them are on 10-year, 15-year prison sentences, they will lose any working habits, tendencies, abilities, and then there is no longer a question of their employment, but when they get out of prison whether they will be our fellow citizens who will be affected in the same way with all the problems that await them when they come out, and the lack of workers' habits and skills is one of the biggest problems, of course, and with all the other help they need to be given. Furthermore, numerous exhibitions have raised the issue of minors and women in prisons. Yeah, that's one big problem. It consists of both minors and women being housed in centralized institutions. Now, if you take a question from a woman in prison, she's placed in one single prison, and it's a prison for women in KPZ Fireman. Unlike men who are housed in prisons across Serbia and who are not far from their place of residence, women are all in one prison and their contact with families, and I include this particular emphasis, and with children is very difficult. As a result, in developed criminal sanctions systems, measures such as the creation of certain prison units for women in existing prisons for men would allow women to be closer to their homes and loved ones. It's the same thing with minors. In Serbia, there are two institutions for minors, one is the KPZ in Valjevo, a central institution, the only one, and the Vajedna correctional home in Krusevec, the central and only institution. Also, as with women, the Citizens' Protector believes it would be necessary to make fewer units, because putting 200 young people in one place is an indication that there is no way to prevent informal systems and there are certain indications that such institutions can lead to the recruitment of a person who will commit crimes in his future life. They would therefore support efforts in the future work of the Criminal Sanctions Administration if it organised several units on Serbia's territory to accommodate women and minors. With regard to the presentation of MPs, the MP pointed out that money is the least needed, but that changes in our habits are primarily needed. We support this view, however, we must indeed agree on certain aspects, the money needed. The Republic of Serbia's budget should indeed provide support to the ministries, i.e. the administrations they have and who are in charge of placing persons deprived of freedom, those without money that meets needs cannot play their part as we all wish together. Mr. Chikiriz has also raised the issue of the position of persons with mental disorders in asylum facilities. People with mental disorders in Serbia are placed in two types of institutions. One is psychiatric hospitals, the other are resident institutions of social protection. The phenomenon is that many of these individuals spend a considerable amount of time in these institutions. During that time, they lose any working, living abilities. They are not ready to live in the community, and for this reason it is necessary to make more significant moves, because for now it seems very slow, that in Serbia institutions for the protection of mental health in the community are as multidisciplinary teams. This is also in the context and more difficult for Mrs Filipovski, that officials and staff employed in existing psychiatric hospitals, in existing social protection institutions, should not be afraid of losing jobs, because they should not only work in these large institutions where hundreds of users are located, but should work in mental health services, that is, to provide people with mental and intellectual disorders. He pointed out, which is that in Serbia there is one phenomenon that does not even stand in the citizens' protection report, or national preventive mechanism, which is that, at least personally, which is the legal basis for the deprivement of the freedom of users in social institutions. I hope that in the next period that these words will also be on the air and that they will be heard and that our regulations will be harmonised, i.e. to provide a legal basis for deprivement of the freedom of persons in resident social institutions, persons with intellectual interference. You also have a large number of people who, because of their age, are unable to take care of themselves enough. We understand the good intentions of employees who work in social security institutions that they can't just let themselves go. However, this cannot be their disposition, but the area needs to be regulated by law. Another issue raised by MP Filipovski, the issue of dealing with irregular migrants. The state of Serbia faces a major problem of migration across its territory. That's one problem you shouldn't ignore. Up to this point, about 8,000 irregular migrants have moved to another legal regime, another status, as they have announced their intention to seek asylum in the Republic of Serbia. If I tell you that at the moment in Albania, 67 people have expressed their intention to seek asylum, and that in Serbia right now, about 8,000 people have expressed that intention, it speaks enough of the size of the problem. Non-regulatory migrants are not registered because of the interpretation of the Asylum Act, most of them are allowed to go freely to the state of Serbia. There's the absence and medical examinations, in this outbreak of infectious diseases, I think it poses one danger. There is no need to ignore the question of the danger of terrorism and encourages for now, as far as we know, the steps of the MUP towards resolving this very, very big problem of migration and asylum in the Republic of Serbia. For the end, I wouldn't take up any more of your time. I am pleased, as Mrs Obradovic said, that everyone is unanimous in this home when basic human rights should be defended. I hope that this House will adopt the proposed conclusions of the Committee and eventually that the state authorities will meet their obligations to co-operate with the Citizens' Protector and will indeed implement all the conclusions made by this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11025	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, the Honored Representatives of the Citizens' Protectors here, we are taking part in the debate on the proposals for the conclusions of the three Assembly committees, which took place on the basis of the report on the work of the National Tortrera Prevention Mechanism for 2013 submitted by the Citizens' Protector and we will vote for the adoption of these conclusions by these three Assembly committees. Taking part in this debate, honored guests, first of all here, on behalf of the institution or state body of the Protector of Citizens, we declare a special respect for the Protector of Citizens who is a state body independent and independent that protects the rights of citizens and as the order for its work corresponds to this National Assembly. I read this report my impression is that in this report we have a very precise and clear description and an assessment of our country's compliance with torture ban, and I have a few notes that I would like to make here in relation to the content of this report which, in my court, is worrying about all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it has already been mentioned here, Mrs Obradovic mentioned it, for example, in the report says, like this – there is no torture in the Republic of Serbia today as an organized and encouraged phenomenon. Okay, thank God, I hope. Let's imagine that's not the case. Let's imagine that's not the case. Let's imagine that there is torture here in Serbia as an organized and encouraged phenomenon. Gentlemen, that would mean we're here in some naked wilderness. I don't think we can boast here by saying that there is no torture in the Republic of Serbia today as an organized and stimulating phenomenon especially when behind it is stuck, respected gentlemen. And behind the comma follows a text like this – but there are individual cases of abuse that the competent authorities tolerate. It's a worrying grade for me. I wouldn't be alarming if there were some individual cases of abuse around here that the authorities react to, prevent, but it says here that the competent authorities tolerate individual cases of abuse, respected gentlemen. I think that we should all worry about this here and in this sense look at the content of this proposal as well as all three committees. I also think that in a certain assessment in this report we have a clear picture and some problems in society as a whole. I've singled out six things here that I think would be very important to talk about. For example, says internal control mechanisms of state authorities are insufficiently effective. So these internal mechanisms that need to be used to prevent these phenomena are not effective. What do we do to make them effective? That makes me, for example. Reminds of this story that one Megatrend University, the following internal mechanisms should say whether something is plagiarized or not. I'm just pulling some parallels. So it's not just one topic, but in society we have big problems in different areas, but we have some similarities about these problems. Or, for example, says this: Despite the recommendations, the current instructions of the Ministry of the Interior on the treatment of the persons brought and detained have not yet been improved. How to be promoted, gentlemen, when I am a citizen of this country, I am a national MP in the National Assembly, I was told in the MUP the other day that a month and a half I have to wait to get a new ID card. Look, there's some I.D. Act here, there's some obligation between competent and state authorities and me, for example. Now I can't exercise some rights as a citizen, because I've been told that for a month and a half and a minimum, I have to wait for a new ID card. Please, I'm talking about the MUP here, of course, in terms of acting within the framework of respect for the ban on torture, and we can see that this is not enough. I'm sorry I don't have time to talk about all the six points I've set out. I could have talked about these two. I hope there's a chance we can keep talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11027	The word is from Deputy Protector of the Citizens Milos Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11028	In addition to being tasked by the Citizens' Protector to run a national torture prevention mechanism, I am also in charge of controlling the legality and regularity of the work of the MUP. I'm really surprised by your assumption that the month and a half is the deadline. If you really use regular legal means, you can contact the Citizens' Protector. We've had a lot of good co-operation with the MUP so far, and I hope that such problems should be some exception maybe, not to be a certain rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11029	Replica, Maria Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11030	I am very sorry that counterpart Pavicevic is, to paraphrasise, socially insensitive to the efforts to find common solutions to implement the recommendations made by the Citizens' Protector in his report. To be more specific. We should be proud to live in a country where torture is not organized as a phenomenon and it is true that nothing is strange. But we should be proud that point is something that I insisted on for 15, 16 minutes of my exposure. I hope you listened very carefully. It is the essence and the conclusion was that I should work together to find a solution. No one said there was absolutely no case in this country. We were saying that there is and that we want it to be corrected and that we know that it doesn't need much money, minimal suspicions that it's the most important good will, that the most important indication is that individuals, these are not institutions, the minimum number of individuals in those institutions don't behave as prescribed and that it should and in a way that does not reduce human freedoms and the degree of rights they achieve. And you keep going on about doing this kind of dialogue that we don't need, and that's the first dissonant tone that's heard today from that one Lassie that we all have to work together to improve this framework and implement the recommendations of the Guardian of Citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11031	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, do you want a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, the honored guests here, are three things I want to say in the replica, the Honorable Chairman, Mrs Obradovic, just now. I don't agree with my earlier speech showing social insensitivity, on the contrary. I consider the Honorable chairmanship that in my speech, I have directed all the MPs and all the citizens of Serbia to one feature that we should all cultivate here, and that is responsibility for what has been done or what has not been done so far. If the report says that there are individual cases of abuse here in our country, which the competent authorities tolerate, then my expectation was that in one dialogue that we are conducting in the National Assembly, we should determine what the authorities are, whether a person who performs on behalf of one of these authorities is punished for such an act, or not. I believe, the Honorable Chairman, to hear Mrs Obradovic, that this debate is about responsibility, measurement of some policy and our actions. The second thing, of course, is that I'm in favour of getting some common solutions, but we can't keep offering solutions without ever showing responsibility for what has never been done before. Here, for example, the report says - the so far reform of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia has not led to the more efficient work of courts in so far. Incarceration cases. Mr Selakovic is a member of the NS, that the NS MP group did not invite him into this Assembly to come in particular, to discuss why he did not use his influence, from the work of his competence to be better, but rather, we have a breakdown of the system in Serbia in the area of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11033	Thank you. Replica, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11034	I ask you to pay attention when you use strong words, especially your colleague Pavicevic, "the breakdown of the system" is not something that is an adequate expression when we talk about Serbia, it may be your personal point of view, your personal attitude and you should have fenced yourself, as I did in my presentation. If you didn't listen carefully, and obviously you didn't, it's not right, if you're already in the O.R. and you're participating actively in the work and you're planning to discuss later, I also mentioned the shortcomings and mentioned that we have to work on it, and in particular, you can hear from the stenograms, that we should follow the implementation of the conclusions that the committees have made. Did you hear in this room that the boards said the report was wrong, that we weren't interested in recommendations and we weren't going to make any moves? You couldn't hear that. Repeat, it was unanimous that we would really work, try to implement these conclusions on, myself personally, on board members, it is personal for you to, not today, help today to adopt conclusions, but from tomorrow, or from the moment the conclusions take effect, ask questions daily but also help in the work to actually implement these changes. If one of them wants to work, and the other one is standing on the side and they're always tripping or talking, you're not good, you're not good, he's not going to get a result. Let's get results together, it's a difficult situation in the country, extremely and economically, on many other issues. A moral code not to speak, but we are here to show that we can work together and that society can move forward. Yesterday's committee, defence session and home affairs in Novi Sad showed, sent a great, unanimous message and representatives of the authorities and all of us and opposition and MP positions. It should be an example of good work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11035	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11036	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. You can't do bad, when one man holds fire in one hand, and in the other hand he holds water. The reform of the judiciary is a matter of continuity, a matter of endurance, it is not a matter of the moment we were able to see in 2008, when judges were changed by political basis and party membership, that it was presented as a reform of the judiciary. On the one hand, it cannot be criticised, i.e. it cannot ask for faster and more quality access to justice and justice, and on the other hand to criticise the Law on Notaries, which frees the judiciary, or frees the courts of various things that were suffocating the courts, rather than the judges, from solving cases within its normal and legally prescribed time. You can't, on the one hand, be against the Notary Act, and on the other hand seek justice. On the one hand, you cannot seek justice for detention cases, and on the other hand you can tap the shoulders of those standing before the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Just tell me what you're for. Are you in favour of judicial reform, for which the Ministry of Justice, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Selakovic, receive both support and support from both the European Commission and the Venice Commission and the EU and all the relevant ones, and we want to be in that family of people, or do you want to side with those whose personal interest is most important and the most important odds will have a trial and how many cases a month. Therefore, the fire and the water, one in one hand, the other in the other hand, is truly inconsistencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11037	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, please, we are slowly getting out of the agenda. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I am in the topic of the agenda. You were in a certain area, but then you started calling. I won't give you any more rights to the replica. (Vladimir Pavićevic, from the post: I report to the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, but please explain it well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, the honored guests who appear on behalf of the Citizens' Protector here in the Assembly today, I believe that the chairman has just violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because he has not given me the right to reply to Mrs Obradovic's presentation, and I believe that on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have the right to replication. And here I am, to use two minutes to show that the chairman will once again break the Rules of Procedure if he does not give me the right to reply after this argument. In Article 104, the first point states: “If the MP of the people in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is abusively expressing himself about a National MP who is not a member of the same assembly... “ – which, the Honorable Chairman, was because Mrs Obradovic said that I did not listen to her carefully, that I was socially insensitive, and for me these are insults, respected chairman. Then it is said: “... Noting his name and last name or function... "Mrs. Obradovic mentioned my name and last name, the Honored Chairman, "... or misread his exposure... “ Mrs. Obradovic misread my presentation, because I said we would vote in favour of the Committee's proposal, the Honored Chairman. Further, “... The MP to whom the exposure relates shall have the right to replication’. Dear Chairman, if this is not a clear example in which one MP has the right to reply, then we here will put an end to dialogue in the National Assembly, and you will show that along with the Progressive majority you want to make the Central Committee of the Communist Union. I'm not going to be a part of it anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11039	Mr. Pavicevic, you have skillfully used, explaining Article 104 to give a replica in some way. My right is, you know it well, to assess whether anyone has a right to replication or not. Therefore, I do not think I have hurt the Rules of Procedure, and it is your right to state whether or not we are going to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the voting day. Yes or no? (Yes) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word of the messenger of the people is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11040	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, Art. 107th and 108th. I think as chairman, you should react to these insults that I suppose from some political one, I can't say "impotent," but that come daily and respond to the SNS. What is a colleague Obradovic, fighting for his views, struggling to come to an agreement, and I suppose it is normal and natural for us in one country to look for points of integration and not for points of separation and diversity, to come to this sort of thing that the progressive majority, and that progressive majority is here because of the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that majority is called SNS, is it so hard to say a full name, not in anger and insult? Is this the Central Committee? I think we're long gone as a society in a multiparty system, but we shouldn't have a part of the history of Serbia that someone would say was good, someone would say he wasn't good, but I'm sure there isn't a man in this room whose parent, himself, cousin, grandfather, wasn't a member of this Alliance of Communists, and perhaps Mr Pavicevic. Come on, he insults the ruling majority, but why he insults his family, his acquaintances, who at that time, by their conviction or morals, were just trying to hurt. On the other hand, I believe that you could react when he asked for a replica based on the state of Mrs. Marija Obradovic, for which he has already received a replica. Will it be for Mr Pavicevic to have one replica five times or as long as he can speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11041	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I didn't allow Mr. Pavicević's replica. His little abuse by quoting the provisions of Article 104, I pointed out to him that he did not comply with the Rules of Procedure. But as for perceptions, insults, insults, it's now a broad term and I can't be a judge. Mr. Babic, do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the messenger of the people Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Representatives of the State Authority of the Protector of Citizens, I believe that you, the Honored Chairman, have just injured Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which regulates the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. How did you do that? Thus, the Honorable Chairman, for not reacting when Mr Babic used two minutes in his earlier speech to mention both my grandparents and my ancestors with some thought that some of my ancestors might have been members of the Communist Party's Alliance. The Honorable Chairman, based on the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, is not allowed for MPs to use such information to speak of someone's ancestors, about some doubts both in this and in that, for it offends the dignity of the National Assembly. The second thing about how you hurt the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Chairman, Article 103. You are constantly commenting on my presentation by claiming that I am abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am one of the few MPs here who always, in every second of the time he uses to discuss, holds the agenda of our session of the National Assembly. The third thing, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Babic resented me, and you did not interrupt it - when I said "progressional majority", I do not find it offensive. It seems to be - an adversaries, some are spoken of - Democrats...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11043	Please don't do this again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11044	Why would that be offensive? I don't see what's offensive about that, gentlemen. I do not believe that any SNS MP was offended when he heard – a forwarder. I suppose SNS MPs are proud that they're adversaries and they're no longer radicals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11045	Mr Pavicevic, I don't think there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure and I wouldn't comment on your argument at all. It is your right to state whether or not we will enter the Voting Day to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11046	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11047	Thank you. Mrs. Obradovic, on what basis are you looking for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11048	Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11049	You have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11050	I'm mentioned. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11051	You're not entitled to a replica on the part of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11052	But in the replica before that when you didn't give...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11053	Mrs. Obradovic, you can get a word based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11054	The line's short, 30 seconds, I'd be done by now. I won't cause a new wave of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11055	Do you have to state whether you want a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11056	Right on the line, because I'm really mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11057	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11058	Then you're making me abuse my rules of procedure. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11059	Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to a replica. Mr. Babic pointed out everything that he mentioned to you in the explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thus, he pointed out in a certain way to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I beg you, you have no right to replicate. You should respect that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11060	Okay, damage to the Rules of Procedure. The dignity of the MPs has been violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11061	The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11062	If I were malicious, if I wanted to abuse this debate, I'd ask where are those human rights fighters who are so loud today and criticise the situation in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11063	You must specify a member first, Maria.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11064	Article 107. If I were mean, I'd ask where are these human rights fighters when, at the time of the Justice Minister of DS Women, 350 days, she was in custody without going to trial? On the second day of the trial, she was released, of course, later on with a large amount of compensation she charged to the state. Where were those people back then? So she was a full year. Also another woman. I have a name and a last name, I have information. Those who know me know I never speak in my mind. Except I always keep facts I can confirm at any moment. This is not the way we need to talk, to list who was where he was, what he was doing, why, where, why you weren't enough... I would like, no matter what I call my colleague Pavicevic, to tell me if he will vote for these conclusions? I want you, along with me, to hand in hand, after adopting these conclusions, to monitor whether they are implemented and to show us what results we have achieved that these recommendations are being implemented. That's the direction this debate should go if we want to be constructive.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11065	Mrs. Obradovic, you must listen to me after you have advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I have, however, given the content of your comments, which was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have now injured the Rules of Procedure, but a reaction to the exposure. I am giving myself the right to say that I am aware that I have hurt the Rules of Procedure and allowed you to discuss how you discussed it. So now I have to, I didn't want to give Mr. Pavicevic a word. Just tell me on what basis you're looking for a word. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: First I ask for the right to reply. No, neither can you. I didn't give Maria the replica. I can't give it to you either. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11066	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, the honored guests who speak for the Guardian of Citizens, I believe that a member of 112 has just been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and behold, the Honorable Chairman, and how. I accept this proposal by Mrs Obradovic to hand in hand by Mrs Obradovic and I from the day we adopt these proposals of the conclusions of our three committees, we are jointly monitoring whether any of the proposed measures are being met. That is, the Honorable Chairman, one thing. The second thing, I said several times that we, the New Party MPs, would vote in favour of the proposals for conclusions prepared by the three committees, based on the Report. Third thing, the Honorable Chairman, and all based on the violation of Article 112. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, I don't believe anyone here can blame me, for example, for some inconsistencies in the fight for human rights. When Mrs. Obradović, for example, mentioned the question of the judiciary and in the period before 2012, so I was an active fighter to respond to all failures and... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11067	Mr. Pavicevic, thank you. And you abused it, and I allowed it because I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I agree that in voting day that I have hurt the Rules of Procedure consciously and I am not running away from it. We're finishing up and we're not going to discuss it anymore. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I have read this statement by the Guardian of Citizens. This is the report signed by Mr. Sasa Jankovic. First of all, this report doesn't say who's gonna be the reporter at the session. I was expecting the Protector of the Citizens. He sent a person over the screen we identify as a guest, not wanting to offend him. I expect the Protector of the Citizens, since he didn't show up here... Last time we had mass abandonment from representatives of regulatory bodies and organs and so on. We had mass abandonment because our Rules of Procedure interpreted him as having the right to speak and not having the right to say a word. Now we've gone one step further. Mr. Meho Omerovic is undeniable in front of the Committee, the Guardian of Citizens would be undeniable for something we concluded last time, but a deputy or someone else who replaces the Guardian of Citizens, it is already disputed for me, since it is a man of the supreme knowledge of law, Rules of Procedure, acts of the National Assembly, state authorities and so on and he certainly knows that, let's say, when a proposal comes to the Assembly by the Government, he is represented by the minister. The Deputy, or the State Secretary, is not allowed to do so. I repeat, Mr. Omerovic is not controversial, but I expected the Citizens' Protector to appear here. If this keeps up, it can happen next time he sends us a porter, not wanting to insult anyone. If days can be attended by the Guardian of Citizens when his report is on the subject of the agenda, if someone else can change it, then he has the right to choose from his home, from his institution, from his body the person who will change it. It's not even listed here, unlike when it's done by the government, who is the author of this report. I'd understand that he's authorized someone, although it's also questionable, but he's not listed here. Certainly, as someone who has been involved in politics since 1988, however, in 1988, rather amateurally, was not allowed to form political parties, someone who has been subject to various political persecution, alone against any torture. Certainly I would vote in favour of this report and certainly I would vote in favour of this report, regardless of its inadequacies. It describes torture in prisons, police stations, psychiatric institutions and so on. Many citizens are coming to the National Assembly, and I have recently been visited as an MP by a man who was sent several times by the President of S.H.I.E.L.D. as a citizen to a psychiatric institution, despite the fact that the first skill found that the man was fine, only because he filed complaints about the work of the judicial authorities in the period from 2005 to 2012. It's kind of torture. This report also does not include torture that our citizens, members of our people, are experiencing outside Serbia, for example in Montenegro, where they do not have a personal map, a clergy, where they are exposed to persecution. We heard here that someone didn't get their ID for a month and a half, or they couldn't get it. There are our citizens who have far bigger problems – they cannot get a certificate of citizenship, they cannot get personal documents both here and abroad. This report is missing. I'll list pages 117 to one hundred twenty-something. There's a public call here. The public call does not stand the date on which the public call was made. It is a public call for co-operation in the performance of the National Tortrum Prevention Mechanism. It is an invitation for NGOs to follow the violations, or to follow tortures in the institutions that I have listed. So, one document, if it's serious, must have a date. This one doesn't have it. The next document, called the Commission's Education Decision, i.e. a solution to the education of a public invitation board, also lacks a date, so we do not know when it was published, when a public call was sent. Next, the Commission's report on the selection of associations with which the Citizens' Protector will co-operate in the performance of the national torture prevention mechanism, also lacks a date. The report, however, states in the text that it was January 20th. Next, the decision on associations with which the Citizens' Protector will co-operate in the performance of the national torture prevention mechanism also has no date. The decision doesn't say what time it is, although in a previous document it says it will be for a year. The decision does not stand when it comes into force, which I think would be mandatory, especially if it is a top-notch lawyer, and it is about the Citizens' Protector, that we simply know when the decision came into force. Some other parts of the report say that some of his decisions take effect immediately. Then we have an agreement on co-operation with NGOs, which finally has a date and carries a date of 31.10.2012. In the end, it writes – this agreement is concluded for a period of one year. It is about nine associations of citizens, who even have a certain political weight, often politically and perform. That doesn't bother me. The Citizens' Protector himself is very prone to making political statements, but let's just say, we have an agreement on co-operation with only one of the nine organizations. The deal's been going on for a year, I'm talking about the report, it's material. The deal's been in place for a year, and we only have one out of nine. But the agreement was signed in 31.1.2012, which means that the first year expired in 31.1.2013. Since the Agreement covers the whole of 2013, we have not received complete documentation from the Guardian of Citizens, and I am already used to it, although it is a body whose members have very high incomes. The Citizens' Protector himself has a very high salary, he explained here how, I don't want to go into it, but I guess we deserve these documents that we get to be complete, to have their dates, to have all nine agreements, not to have only one, to have an agreement on the extension of the agreement, because it only applies for a year. If we are strictly looking at the law, this agreement does not guarantee, as presented to citizens' associations, that they were able to monitor torture, or national torture prevention mechanism, such a type of programme of this NGO, by the documentation that we have been supplied, they had no right to carry out, because there are no documents that confirm that these associations were authorised and that, before many decisions and documents have no date, it is almost amazing for such a high-professional institution that adheres to the rights and rules. Finally, to say that since 2000, and even before, all our citizens have experienced such torture that we are very much alike to Mars. In Serbia, as on Mars, there are conditions for life, but there is no life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11069	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11070	Thank you. I need to explain to those colleagues and colleagues who stayed in the O.R. and who are interested in what's on the agenda today, so that we don't talk about today's report to the National Tortoire Prevention Mechanism. That's not the agenda point. On the agenda are reports and proposals from the three Assembly Committees – the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the Committee on Justice and the State Administration and the Committee chaired by my smallness, for human, minority rights and gender equality. This was made clear by counterpart Marija Obradovic at the beginning of her presentation. I ask that we do not fall into our own trap, especially if we do not compromise with the good intentions of the Citizens' Protector and his deputy, who manages as co-ordinator of the national torture prevention mechanism and which is only for the sake of good and, I would say, a correct relationship with both Parliament and all of us who are MPs, because this is just another report that we are considering in the history of the state of Serbia and parliamentism, annually. This is the institution that's in the field. Just thanks to good communication and relations, and precisely with the desire for this annual report to include examples of what they have managed and who are relevant, both international documents and domestic documents in their work and recommendations and regulations, etc. Supplements. So they didn't even have to put these supplements in their annual report, but they just put them as a plastic example and this is what the distinguished counterpart Risticevic was talking about, it's just one of the agreements with one of the NGOs. There are as many agreements as you want. They didn't even have to be additions to this report. I would like us to go back to the proposals of the conclusions that we have together as three committees, and when we vote as the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we do everything to make sure that irregularities, shortcomings and all that is seen and that it is not good at the control of all the institutions contained in the 2013 Report are removed, that, as we as MPs, we, starting from the recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors through this report of the National Torres Prevention Mechanism and through these conclusions that we offer to the National Assembly today, come to as little as possible in some subsequent period. I believe that we are both able as a society and as a state to, together with independent state regulatory bodies, because I remind you, Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for Access to Public Information, the Commissioner for Equality, the State Auditor, the Anti-Corruption Agency, should be our greatest allies in doing this important and responsible job that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have entrusted us with. We together with them, hand in hand, have to control how the laws we make ourselves are enforced, whether these laws are broken, who violates them. We are not the outcast section of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, some public enterprises, agencies, institutions and ministries that exist within the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We are the ones who chose them. Together, we must control how laws are enforced, whether laws are broken, and who violates those laws. So I would like us in the future, I said that this morning in private sentences, when I explained very briefly the report of the committee I chaired, we must assume the control function of the Republika Srpska Assembly. We, as MPs, need as much as possible and as often as possible to control both the executive power and all those bodies that we have chosen and who account for us, which is the only way to respond to both the tasks and the obligations arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and what citizens expect of us. Of course there are problems, that they are not sacred cows, I apologize for the expression, or representatives of independent state institutions. Of course, they and their annual reports should be the subject of consideration in this congregation and they are. What we're talking about today, we're talking about a proposal to conclude three committees, and about the annual report of the National Tortocra Prevention Mechanism.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11071	Mr. Risticevic, you want a replica? To tell you the truth, he did mention you, but Mr. Omerovic was talking about that you should give the tendon to conclusions, not about others... I don't see anything offensive, he commented. I'd like you to give up the replica, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11072	It is unacceptable for me that the material that we have received, which is addressed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is material that all MPs, called the report, have no right to interpret it for the conclusion of the three committees, because it is following the document. On this basis, we need to compare whether our congregation committees well enough to evaluate this report, so that we can make our views on these conclusions. I do not dispute that the committees had the right to conclude, but the slow fact that someone else is arguing that we have the right to read the report and to consider the report and the conclusions of the Committee, which is based on the report, we have the right to interpret. I couldn't agree more. I don't think that would be transparent enough. I agree we're not an out-of-state government department, but we're certainly not an out-of-the-way ward of citizens' protectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11073	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11074	Mr. Jankovic, you are here in front of the Guardian of the Citizens of Mr. Jankovic. My colleagues and colleagues, although we are in a small number, I hope the citizens are not in this number as many of us as we are in this room. I will try in a few minutes that my parliamentary group has to comment on the citizens' protector's report, i.e. The national torture prevention mechanism in the Republic of Serbia for the past year, to comment on the conclusions of the three committees that discussed parts of the report from their domain of work. First of all, I would like to commend this report of yours, Mr. Jankovic. I think it's comprehensive, chronologically well-complicated, layman's clear. I consider myself a layman for this area and it's very clear what you've been doing and what you've controlled, what you've found your recommendations. What I would like to read to the citizens of Serbia from your report is the first part. So that I don't explain what we've been discussing here all day, we're discussing torture, that is. on how to treat suspected, convicted and detained persons in various detention and coercion institutions in the Republic of Serbia by people who are authorised to work in those institutions. You have well written here that human dignity, the right to the integrity of physical and psychological integrity and the prohibition of torture, inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic, by numerous laws, as well as the most significant conventions Serbia has ratified. However, the general public lacks clear awareness that these fundamental human rights belong to every citizen, including one who has been arrested, detained or convicted, an asylum seekers or an illegal immigrant, as well as to any person with mental interference or developmental interference. What is important in the next paragraph, advocating respect for international standards in Serbia is usually seen as something imposed, as accepting other people's rules that are not applicable in these areas. The thesis on the specificity of the culture of human rights, i.e. the personality of tradition and specific habits in these areas, leads to populist thesis on the need for inappropriately harsh criminal policies, as well as on the advocate of the justification of abuse. Accordingly, ideas of the reintroduction of the death penalty arise, an increase in the length of the prison sentence, including constantly renewing ideas for the introduction of a chemical castration penalty. I think in these two paragraphs you said what the essence of torture is and what it is that we need to fight, not because it was advocated by the European community, we want to go to the European community, but because it is a normal, civilized norm of the behavior of people living in the 21st century anywhere on this planet. You have an interesting passage that has caused a lot of controversy here. There is no torture in the Republic of Serbia today as an organised and stimulating phenomenon, but there are individual cases of abuse that authorities tolerate. There was a lot of controversy here about it. For all I know, organized torture was the only thing in the history of the Inquisition. We seem to be short of a big inquisitor. That was a little joke. What your report says is about individual forms of torture in the Republic of Serbia, in detentions, in prisons, in detention units, special mental hospitals of a prison type, is not about mental hospitals where patients are, but mental hospitals where they are convicted of psychiatric disorders, and part of a classical type mental hospital, such as the low "Toponic". What's very interesting, and what you've been doing, is that you've systemized this control in a couple of areas. I think it's very good and transparent, and that's how the committees later worked through the proposals for the measures they took. It's control and suggestion about the quality of accommodation and accommodation facilities, where there's something that's immutable, and that's the number of accommodation places in prisons. They can only be changed by building new prisons. What is possible is to increase the quality of accommodation in terms of humane relations with detainees, to have water in detention units, to have an adequate level of personal hygiene, to be able to have adequate access to a doctor and a way to access a doctor where, in addition to special cases, doctors themselves seek the presence of a supervisor, i.e. authorised officials, it is unacceptable for officials to be present at the examination, whether they are specific, not specific, because there is something called a doctor's secret and called privacy. Those convicted persons have the right to their privacy. The whole system of your analysis is based on our efforts as a society to prevent the subsequent punishment of the punished people. What this report deals with, Serbia's respected citizens, is the inadmissible taking of the law into my own hands, I will try to be clear, by people who need to enforce the law and control the application of the law to a convicted, detained person. It is very clear that the Justice Committee, along with all the recommendations it has made... I hope, since it was more suggestive than the majority MPs here, that it should be controlled how this will be applied, that this will be controlled in the next period, and that I will only point 3 of the Justice Committee's conclusion, which says that the National Assembly obliges the Government to provide for the necessary funds for the construction, that is, the adaptation of detention rooms in police stations, and in accordance with the applicable standards, and I add, on the basis of the recommendation of the Commission dealing with the construction of this elaborate. Dear MPs, who are currently not in the hall, have the obligation to make a budget that will be passed in November of the month, clearly prove your political power and will, because we are the ones who create, let's say by quotes, life in the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of the RS. That you would be in the position of the Justice Department, the Ministry of Police, wherever money needs to be invested, i.e. Intervention finance to make item 3. The Justice Committee respected that you would adequately consider it in the budget. Well, then we'll sit like this, and I'll remind you if it's not represented as it is now, and as we'll make a decision based on the board's decision, that I'll remind you that you're obliged to respect your decision that you're about to adopt now, of course with us together. I hope unanimously, because the committees have made normal proposals, and everything in line with that and as a consequence of what this Commission has written to prevent and prevent torture within the Office of the Republic of Serbia. What is very important and why this report of yours is important, because it shows that apart from the punishment which has an institution sanctioning a crime, it has its own educational, i.e. has a function deterred from criminal acts on the other perpetrators, and what you are potential for and what I have seen as very important in this report, and also very important to apply in the Republic of Serbia so as not to have returnees, is the education that you insisted on through the work of teachers with convicts and detained persons. You have thus suggested that this work of educators in those institutions where detainees are being prevented and reduced by the number of returnees, which is evident in the Republic of Serbia. All these recommendations of yours, I've seen it that way, going towards that ultimate goal that if we have convicts, we have a very small number of returnees in the future. More darred, I want to commend this work of yours. It's that you've been doing it for two years, but the year-to-year report is more comprehensive, more comprehensive. It is very important that you suggest that you do not meet and do not follow your recommendations, because you make recommendations, which is a signal to the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia whether the Republic of Serbia is doing its job adequately, i.e. The congregation's majority is right and what we now declare or do not do. I hope that your next report will, in particular, suggest as an MP to you, pay attention to the conclusions of our committees, the assembly and it would be good for your professional service to evaluate those conclusions in the next report, whether any of them have been applied, or whether it was just a dead letter on paper and the political wish of the congregation's majority in terms of how we imagine planes flying. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11075	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Vesna Marjanovic, then Milanka Jevtovic. Here you go, Vesna.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11076	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I would also like to thank the representatives of the Citizens' Protectors, fellow Members of Parliament. I would like to point out at first once again that I, as well as the DS parliamentary group, will support the conclusions of our three committees in case what I am about to say in the next exhibition is not misread. I think it's important and I would simply like, in a way, to repeat the basic thesis in this debate, to highlight the importance of certain conclusions and messages that I think we should send from here in the Assembly. So it is important that we establish and be satisfied that the finding that there is no systemic torture in Serbia, of course it is important and of course it is commendable. And it's also very important that we have, I think, agreed that it must not take us away from another part of this finding that says that there are individual examples of torture that are still being tolerated, but we have to understand, and this is now my attempt to perhaps explain what, for some unknown reason, here is interpreted as a negative debate or dissonant tone, in that regard, given that I consider the Assembly to be exactly a place for dissonant tones and I would not be happy if we were here all the time talking in the same way and supporting certain common senses. So the essence of such reports as, say, the European Commission's report is that we realize that we have progressed in something, but much more to realize what has not been done yet. That's exactly what we have to insist on, because that's the only way we're gonna make some progress. So when we say that there is no systemic corruption, pardon, corruption and torture in Serbia, when we say there is no systemic torture, it is commendable, but at the same time it is exactly what my colleague Pavicevic said, that if it were not the case, we would live in a tragic state, in a tragic society that would look like North Korea. So it can't be something that can lead us in and make us content. That's the essence of what we're talking about here, I think. At the same time, my personal opinion that we are a society that tends to, when something is in general good, ignore individual cases and say, well, that's not so important. On the contrary, it is very important and we will not be an advanced society until each individual, as lonely or individual as his case is, is equally important to us. That's the essence of this finding. What I want to talk about is something called a social atmosphere, or a certain consciousness in which we are trying to improve certain mechanisms that we have no doubt. I really commend the work of the Protectors in this area, we have legislation, we have laws, but that's not enough. It is our duty to see how we will implement these laws to the depths of society and how we will prevent all these cases through other types of social and parliamentary action. I think we live in a society of continuous violence. It's one general atmosphere. It is a society where people are rarely beaten or killed on the street in the presence of other citizens, even in the presence of people who are representatives of internal affairs or some security, etc. We live in a society where we still thank the hooligans for not beating up "Pryda". It's one of the contexts we live in. We also live in a society where people are neglected, desperate, poor, left to themselves very often. It's an atmosphere where it takes a little spark to cause the most primitive feelings of revenge, revenge, and some ways, to say the reactions of a society that is known as the 12th century or some other centuries in the Middle Ages. I will remind you that when we became a member of the Council of Europe in 2003, one of the conditions was the abolition of the death penalty because the death penalty was considered a form of torture, my colleague Comic spoke of it. I'm also going to say in a way to isolate my opinion, for me, certain initiatives on the implementation of chemical castration can also fall into that kind of torture, and I personally don't stand for it. What I'm trying to say is, we're in a very small society. So here's the question -- what if people who are rightly disproved, angry and bitter about some occurrences of violence and injustice, let's tell them, let's return the death penalty. What would happen if we did that kind of research? I'm not sure we've convinced the whole society what torture really means and why, say, death penalty shouldn't exist. I return to the question of what is the consciousness of society and the context in which we need to implement these conclusions that we are talking about today. It is my opinion that this is influenced by, in one climate, by an atmosphere of people who are in the highest places in the state, by those who are political elites in the government, by opposition, by parliament, by the judiciary, in any branch of government. This seems to be through investing in education from the smallest age, investing in culture and through the media. That is my opinion, and we could now discuss the state of these areas today. I think that in the future we need to look at these conclusions and ways to prevent certain phenomena and look at them differently and increase our awareness that we are finding ways to interdisciplinaryly approach such phenomena as preventing torture. I will return for a short time to our role in the Council of Europe, that is, our membership in this international organisation. The Council of Europe primarily deals with the protection of human rights and regularly delivers a huge number of resolutions and recommendations to governments and in the area of preventing torture. It is my impression that we as parliament do not follow at all what our commitments are made from these resolutions and those recommendations. So here I say and recommend, since the ruling majority of us from the opposition said – do, help, let us work together, I say – open public debates, not only here in the tide, in the assembly committees, with civil society, with individuals on this subject and all other sensitive topics in this society, because this is the best place to talk about it, the most called place to talk about it. This is a place for public debates and for raising citizens' awareness and meeting citizens about the problems we are talking about today. In the end, I would support, and I thank Mr. Omerovic for his intervention because that is exactly what it is, our role here is to control the government, regardless of whether we are members of the opposition or the ruling majority. I am also now saying, since we are invited to help, the MPs of the ruling majority, because you are the ones who are making the key decisions now. We brought in when we were in government, you claim it was no good. All right, no, it didn't work out for you. Come on, you guys. So, you organise public debates on committees, you control your government and ask them to meet the conclusions that we propose here and help and improve the work of regulatory bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11077	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11078	The Honored Chairman, distinguished guests, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I would first and foremost focus on the reports of the committees responsible for the judiciary, the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, for the reasons that these Assembly committees, in accordance with their jurisdiction, discussed the report on the work of the National Mechanism for the Prevention of Tortrum for 2013 and on the basis of the report under consideration, made some conclusions that were in fact binding on the conduct of certain and competent state bodies. What I would certainly like to say is that the National Mechanism for the Prevention of Torres is a relatively young mechanism, established on July 28, 2011, although the Republic of Serbia signed the UN Convention on the Ban of Torres in 2003 and ratified the convention in 2006. Unfortunately, it took a long time to establish a national torture prevention mechanism only in 2011. What I want to point out is that the members of all committees have carefully analysed the Report of the National Mechanism, that it is evident that the report is detailed, that the report is precise, that it is based on concrete data, that it is plastically shown and, of course, based on concrete recommendations given to state authorities. In my presentation, however, I will focus on the conclusions made by the Committee on the Rights of the Child, which has also found that the Report is comprehensive and detailed, but for the most part, for the reasons that somewhere I think that, apart from those who are deprived of liberty and are on the basis of the prison sentence, next to those in psychiatric hospitals, next to those in police custody, there is somewhere a group of children without adequate parental ageing, i.e. without parental ageing, is, by some of my deepest convictions, the most sensitive social group in our entire population. For this reason, the competent Committee for the Rights of the Child, and of course after considering our Report, has reached a conclusion regarding your recommendations that there are large numbers of children in social protection institutions. According to the data available from the Republic Social Protection Institute in 2013, i.e. on 31.12.2013, the total number of children placed in social protection institutions is 918. The number when compared from 2011 is in decline, but of course we should not be worried about the decline of that number, although it certainly is for every praise. What the Committee on the Protection of the Rights of the Child insists and advocates is that the competent state authorities take all the action to deinstitutionalise social protection institutions for housing children without parental ageing and, of course, to grow up in a natural environment. Starting from being in accordance with the Family Law, the right of a child is primarily to live with its biological parents, but unfortunately all children cannot achieve this right guaranteed by law, nor are they fortunate to live with their biological parents. There is certainly a possibility and this system in social protection is developing that children without adequate parental ageing grow up in a family environment, in foster families. Thus, this type of protection and support and biological families and foster families still need to be strengthened in order to improve the best development and ultimately, the optimal development of each child. What I want to point to, and what the Committee on the Rights of the Child has pointed to is the position of children with mental disorders who are also in social protection institutions, and you have stated in your report that you have conducted a tour of children and youth with mental development disorders in the Veternik region, that you have observed some failures and that you have made recommendations. Those recommendations are 12. All these recommendations are supported by the Committee on the Rights of the Child, and it is the obligation of state institutions and organisations to respect these recommendations in order to protect the best interests of children with mental disorders. We need to know that all children are the same and that all children have the same needs, only a different way of satisfying them. That is why children with mental disorders who are placed in social protection institutions must be under special care and special care from professional staff working in those institutions, with the fact that, of course, professional staff must be constantly trained and trained to provide these services in the best way to children. Of course, it is not only important for those professional staff to be constantly educated. It is very important to recognise the needs of these children and focus on the programs that professional staff will go through, which will result in improved services to these children. Also, I would like to emphasise what the legislative part of the Assembly is about, that in 2013, we adopted a Law on the Protection of mentally underdeveloped persons, that the adoption of this law was preceded by and the suggestions of the Citizens' Protectors in this sense to establish organisational units at local level that will deal with mental health issues, that is to say, that persons who have mental disorders remain in the natural social environment continue to have contact with their relatives and that, in this way, through accommodation in psychiatric institutions or social protection institutions, they do not further isolate themselves. So isolation is something that is inappropriate, isolation is a form of inhumane behavior and with this practice of a state institution where it is identified they have to stop. As regards your recommendations regarding the visit of the KPZ to Valjev, where minors are located, or as you have already stated, it is the only criminal correctional institution where the sentence of a juvenile prison is maintained, of course this institution should also apply your recommendations, and what I would particularly like to focus on is these social support plans and assistance that should be provided to a minor, or a minor convicted person immediately at the beginning, or immediately upon the arrival of the sentence, just so that he is adequately re-orientated and socially involved in the middle of leaving the prison sentence. Of course, it is absolutely acceptable and an observation that this resociation and this kind of social support should not only be about copying and correspondence between KPZ Valjevo institutions, competent centres, parents, etc., but rather about taking concrete contents and concrete actions, in order to make this post-pensive protection of the perpetrators of criminal offences, and as regards minors, it is much more successful on the way out of juvenile prison. I would like to stress that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also guarantees every citizen the right to life, to dignity, to the inviolability of physical and mental integrity, that Article 25(2) of the Constitution explicitly prohibits every type of abuse, humiliation, insult, that other domestic laws, such as the Criminal Code in Article 137, every type of abuse, neglect, inhumane conduct, that there are elements of criminal acts and that are criminally sanctioned. The question of human rights is indivisible, they are universal and they refer to all citizens. Since Serbia is seeking the EU's path, given that the Republic of Serbia is a signator of many conventions that are currently concerned with the protection of fundamental human rights, and these recommendations and this report, we have seen in fact as another step towards improving fundamental human rights, because, again, all citizens, whether they are in prisons or in social protection institutions, are at police detention, whether they are in psychiatric institutions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11079	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11080	Thank you. Repeating my decision to vote on the conclusions of the National Assembly Committee, for many good reasons, which I hopefully managed to explain in my first address, just a few remarks, three remarks, or questions concerning the text of the report itself, which are not mentioned in the conclusions. The first is information on the prevention of retribution against persons working with national prevention mechanisms. It is the text that special attention is paid to the pre-warning of retribution by protecting the source of information, i.e. information on the persons who provided the information. If their identity is identified, they shall firstly pursue their preventive activity through subsequent visits to those persons and the monitoring of their position, i.e. the conduct of staff in institutions towards them. If we had a procedure, i.e. a law on alarmers, I suppose that in one of the members, these faces could be considered alarmers, although I do know that there are two completely different cases, therefore, of what is considered an alarming person and of what the person who provided information about obvious torture or inaction, and of knowledge in prison institutions, detention institutions, psychiatric treatment or children without parental ageing. In order to find out that someone, as they say, has to tell us from the inside, or it has to happen that the unannounced visit or the Commission for the execution of criminal sanctions or some of the bodies of national mechanisms simply finds a situation where torture is carried out over some individual case. I believe that this part of the report is of paramount importance, as we want to send a message that whoever is in custody, in a prison unit serving a sentence, who is in a psychiatric treatment facility or is in a childcare facility with or without parental ageing interference, that our joint effort and joint obligation is to spend every day there without torture, without abuse, without cruel treatment, without inhumane treatment by a person who is in a position of power in their little environment so that he can do torture. So I also think we should send a clear message that we are ready to protect all those who will give us information on such cases. The second remark I would like to share with you is that I am glad that in some majority mood here we are determined to control the government's work. It wouldn't be good for it to be declarative, and it wouldn't be good if we had some kind of misunderstanding about it, because that misunderstanding would be completely banal, but deep. Government control implies the integrity of all of us MPs, and it is not easy when you are a member or member of the ruling majority, nor when you are a member of the opposition to indeed your constitutional powers that we mention in the oath that we take when we take office as a member of the government's control. What's good news is, only a controlled government has a chance of being a good government. I know there's little chance we'll get along during this term, maybe not during the next one, but we certainly will once. Because there's one good thing about ideas that are related to the control of the executive government as well as human rights ideas. Nothing can stop an idea whose time has come. Well, in Serbia, the time has come or the time has come for us all to remove the misunderstanding over who controls the executive power, the National Assembly, not the ruling majority, not the opposition, not the individual MPs, but the National Assembly headed by the National Assembly. Why am I making an observation here with the text of these conclusions and this report? Because the easiest way to agree on this is to show that we want to control the government because by applying conclusions we will work on a greater quality of life and to reduce the inhumane treatment or abuse of people who are in custody, in prison or in similar institutions. If we cannot agree on this, we will hardly have the opportunity to truly show that we are the National Assembly when executive power is to be controlled over which we have disagreement. That's why the misunderstanding about whether we can really control the government is banal, but it can be deep. The last remark I want to share with you is related to the indirect message of this report and to the indirect message of conclusion of all three committees, related to several topics launched by MP Vesna Marjanovic. We will apply recommendations and really control, hopefully improve the quality of life and make sure that the tortures are not in detention units, prison units or closed-type institutions. What is an indirect message is that we have a business that is not directly the subject of the report, is not directly nor the subject of conclusions, and that is to open up a debate about how justified or self-excusing violence that can't be called torture in terms of the definition of torture as I read from the convention, and it is the abuse of someone, is someone's inhumane behavior, is someone abuse of someone, as there is, and why there is so much in our families, in schools, on the street, among groups of sports fans where it shouldn't be. In violent public communication, when on a public scene you maintain violent communication, when you support ad-hominem communication, ad personam, disqualification of people, when it's funny, then public opinion says – well that's really funny, it's great. Our job is never to be trapped in dishonesty, mocking expressions of political correctness, but also to not be distracted from the mind that we are role models and that the responsibility of publicly spoken words implies things that we may not know will happen because there are violent communications in this room, because there are examples of an indiscretion in speech. It's not directly related to the conclusions either, it's not about what the report says, but it is about someone we're going to meet on the street and ask if he even knows what we discussed today and what we're all going to do together, hopefully, when it comes to conclusions. When you say you're talking about people's rights to live in prisons without torture, to live without abuse, without inhumane behavior, without cruel treatment of them, if in response you get – so who cares about prisoners, just to say – no, no, we care in the National Assembly. I think it'll be good for those who will never commit a crime and for all of us who want to really control these mechanisms to create an applied system of human rights and life without torture in prison and detention units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-22-0.u11081	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposals for the decisions of the committees in charge. Today we finish our work and resume tomorrow at 11.00 p.m.
