ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5873	Dear President, honourable MPs. This set of media laws not only edits the Serbian media scene in the most transparent way and not only brings us closer to the best European practices, but also creates a legal framework for journalists to have better working conditions and citizens to better inform. Reform laws in the media sphere are passed for the first time in 11 years. We will today, among other things, discuss the Law on Public Information and the media as a roof law. The crown law on public information and the media has special importance for the development of democratic relations in our society. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees freedom of opinion and expression and guarantees freedom of the media, in line with the highest international standards and standards of EU countries. The law provides and protects freedom of delivery, receipt and exchange of information, views and opinions through the media and protects citizens' right to true, complete and timely information. So far, the applicable Public Information Act has been passed long ago in 2003. Meanwhile, standards have improved, law enforcement practice has shown shortcomings and uncertainty, certain areas of public information have been regulated by other laws, and there is a need and need for this law to be replaced by a new document, which we are doing today. This legal text has the following objectives – creating conditions for the free development of independent professional media and media systems that should enable without discrimination to meet the needs of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, establishing a framework that guarantees free movement of ideas, information and opinions, without interference of the state in a way that would constitute an unwarranted restriction of freedom of expression and public information, the withdrawal of the state from the media, except for those in particular identified cases, clear definition of public interest in the field of public information, the definition of a transparent system of financing in the field of public information and the transition to project financing at different levels of government, protection of the rights of journalists, editors and the promotion of journalistic association, the establishment of media register and transparency of ownership in the media, the protection of media pluralism through the prevention of illicit unlicense, protection of rights of rights of hate, editors and the protection of human integrity and the protection of the right of information and the protection of justice, the protection of the rights of justice and the rights of justice of justice, the rights of justice and the right of justice, the right of justice, the right of justice and the right of justice of justice and the protection of justice of justice of justice, and the right of justice and the protection of justice, the right of justice and the right of justice and the right of justice and the right of justice and the right of justice of justice, and the right of justice, and the right of justice, and the right of justice of justice, and the right of protection of justice of justice of justice of justice of justice of justice of justice of justice of justice, and the right of justice of justice of justice of justice, and the protection of protection of justice, and the right of justice of justice of justice of justice of justice, and the protection of protection of justice of justice and the right of justice of justice, and the right of justice and the protection of protection of justice. Public interest in the area of public information is a true, impartial, timely and complete informing of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It also refers to the true, impartial, timely and complete informing in the native language of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are members of national minorities, informing in the Serbian language of members of Serbian people living outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, preserving the cultural identity of Serbian people and national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, informing the foreign public in foreign languages when it is of interest to the Republic of Serbia, informing people with disabilities and other minority groups, supporting the production of media content in order to protect and develop human rights and democracy, improving the rule of law and social state, free development of the personality and protection of children and young people, and developing cultural and artistic creation, development of education, science, sports, physical culture and human health, the development of media literacy and improving media and journalist professionalism. The establishment of public interest in public information is achieved by the establishment of a public service at national and regional level, the establishment of an institution for the exercise of public information rights in the territory of AP KiM, the provision of national advice to set up institutions and companies in order to exercise public information rights, the co-financing of projects in the field of public information in order to achieve public interest. Competition commissions -- starting with public interest, the authorities responsible for public information affairs of the Republic of Serbia, the AP or local self-government are making a decision on competitions which are being discussed during the calendar year. The evaluation of projects submitted in the competition will be conducted for the first time by a three- or five-member expert commission, with the majority of members proposed by media and news associations. Public data on media and registers – the purpose of the register is to provide media information to the public. For the first time, the registry will contain data on legal and natural persons who directly or indirectly have more than 5% share in the founding capital of issuers, data on their related persons within the meaning of the law governing the legal position of companies and data on other issuers in which those persons have more than 5% share in founding capital. It will also contain data in the amount of money allocated to the media on behalf of state aid, in accordance with the provisions of this law, as well as data on the amount of money obtained from the public authority at all levels. The law also deals very closely with the protection of media pluralism. For the purpose of preventing the emergence or strengthening of predominantly influence in the field of public information, which significantly restricts media pluralism, it will not be allowed: the unification of two or more publishers whose total annual circulation exceeds 50% of the sold circulation of daily newspapers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the unification of two or more broadcasters whose combined share in listening or ratings exceeds 35% of the total listening and ratings, the acquisition of over 50% in the founding capital between the founders of daily newspapers whose circulation exceeds 50,000 copies and publishers providing audio-visual media services. A person who, in addition to media activity, deals with and distribution of media content, is obliged to carry out the work of media publishers through a connected legal person. The existence of a threat to media pluralism for printed media is determined by the Ministry of Culture and Information, and in the case of electronic media, the independent regulatory body responsible for electronic media. Representatives of foreign media and foreign media correspondence have the same rights and responsibilities as domestic editors and media in carrying out their activities. Distribution of domestic and foreign media and media content is free of charge. A media distribution person must not refuse to distribute media by applying unequal distribution conditions to different media market participants and must comply with the provisions of the laws governing competition protection. Special rights and obligations in public information. So we have the assumption of innocence, the ban on hate speech, the protection of minors, the ban on public exposure to pornography, the right to respond and the correction to define precise deadlines, the right to compensation for damages, privatisation. The privatisation of the media should be completed by 1 July 2015. From the moment of the sale of capital, there is an obligation to retain the basic activity of the media for five years. An additional obligation will be made by media buyers in the languages of national minorities, as they will have to preserve shares of different programmes of importance for the national minority in that environment. If no media issuer's capital is sold by 1 July 2015, the sale of capital is suspended and the issuer's capital is privatised by the transfer of shares to employees without compensation. In case an employee rejects this offer, that medium ceases to exist and is deleted from the register. The second law in the set of these reform media laws is the Electronic Media Act. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on Electronic Media is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for a public information system and that television and radio stations are established under the law. Electronic media plays a significant role in the public information system of the Republic of Serbia. A new technological revolution in the field of electronic media requires continued improvement of existing standards and legal regulations. Technical and technological development has led to the creation of a number of new international standards contained in the Council of Europe conventions and EU directives. New technical achievements mean that all EU members must move from analogue to digital broadcasting, that software content providers are viewed in digital space as providers of audio-visual media services, not broadcasters, and that audio-visual media services are introduced, e.g. audio-visual services on request. All of this requires an amendment and addition of legal acts that regulate this area. Audiovisual policy is one of the EU's most important policies. In March 2010, the EU established a new regulatory framework regarding the provision of audio-visual media services by an audio-visual media directive on the provision of audio-visual media services. Given that the Republic of Serbia is in the EU candidate status, this directive has imposed the need to bring the current legislation of the Republic of Serbia into line with the standards set out in it in the next process of approximation and accession of the Republic of Serbia to full membership in the EU. In this context, the Republic of Serbia ratified the European Convention on Transboundary Television of the Council of Europe, which is one of the most significant documents in the area. So far, the current Broadcasting Law was adopted in 2002. Meanwhile, standards have been improved and the practice of law enforcement has shown certain shortcomings, and the transition to a digital signal and issue of providing audio-visual media services in line with those standards has led to the need to replace this law with a new one, which will once again catch up with new times in the field of electronic media. The objectives of the draft law on electronic media are: the terminology and definition of concepts in accordance with the EU Audio-visual Media Services Directive; the normative regulation of work, competences and tasks of the regulatory body in the field of electronic media, taking into account the changed circumstances that will take place by switching from analogue to digital broadcasting; the precise definition of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia over audio-visual media service providers; guaranteeing the freedom of reception and re-emission of media services; defining and defining the type of audio-visual media services in accordance with the audio-visual media directive of the EU; precise definition of obligations of audio-visual media service providers; defining European audio-visual works and the obligation of showing them; precise regulation of access to events of exceptional importance to the public; laying down new transparent procedures for the provision of media protection in the field of media protection in the field of media law in the field of lawenforcement. Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Scientific, technical and technological achievements, as well as the switch to a digital signal, have led to more and more pressures in international frameworks to the almost common name of broadcasting, and since several years ago the usual competences and tasks of regulatory bodies in this area are increasingly changing, especially regarding the issue of licences. The Republic Broadcasting Agency shall change its name to the Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media, with the property of a legal person exercising public authority. The regulator is functionally and financially independent from state authorities, organisations, media service providers and operators and is responsible to the National Assembly. Regulator's authorities are also the president's advice. The council has nine members who elect and resolve the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the proposal of authorised proposings. The members of the council are officials in terms of regulations governing conflict of interest in the performance of public functions. The officials are the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, professional associations and the non-governmental sector, all of which should contribute to further strengthening the independent position of the future regulator. The law sets out the procedure for selecting members of the council, suspending the mandate, as well as the way within the council to decide. A detailed description of the activities to be dealt with by the regulator in the future has been defined. The bill also guarantees freedom of reception and re-emission of media services from other countries guaranteeing in the Republic of Serbia on certified international contracts. A ban on hate speech, protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, minors, and protection of copyright and related rights are defined. The rules on access to the most important events and the obligation to share European audiovisual works are also defined. This bill also defines provisions on television advertising and sales. The law more precisely defines the power to provide media services without authorisation, i.e. authorisations on the basis of approval and on the basis of the authorisation, as well as the procedure for the withdrawal of the authorisation. The protection of media pluralism has been prescribed. This bill is also a prerequisite for the digitisation process that must be completed by 17 June 2015. The third law in a set of media laws is the proposal for a law on public media services. Public media service RTS and RTV were established by the 2002 Broadcasting Law. To date, the provisions of the Law on Broadcasting relating to the work of public service have shown that the provisions must be adapted to new technical standards, that some legal solutions are inadmissible or undefined and that certain terms and obligations must be more precisely defined in accordance with international rules. Taking into account the reasons for the adoption of the Public Media Services Act, the harmonisation of the domestic regulatory framework with the EU regulatory framework and its legal assets, as well as the changes resulting from the application of technological achievements in the field of digital transmission and access to software content. The definition of public interest, which through its software content is provided by public media service. The establishment of a public media service body, whose work will enable the smooth functioning of public media services. Regulation of the relationship for the liability of public media service to the public and creating conditions for transparency of work and business. The establishment of a stable and sufficient financing of a public media service as well as a way to control the use of funds to ensure full editorial independence and institutional autonomy. This law makes the difference between the basic activity of public media services which generate public interest and which creates public media service and commercial activity as secondary and optional but possible activities. It is foreseen that commercial activity should not jeopardise the performance of the basic activity. The principles on which public media services rest are true, impartial, complete and timely information, independence of editorial policy, banning censorship, respect for professional codes and standards, application of internationally recognised standards and principles, and in particular respect for human rights and freedoms and democratic freedoms. The law also guarantees institutional autonomy and editorial independence of public service, which is one of the basic preconditions for achieving its role. Public media service is regulated to respect the public for its activities to the public. The public interest achieved by the public media service defined its software content at 20 points. In order to fulfil public interest obligations, public media services are required to respect the language and voice standards of both the majority population and the appropriate situation and national minorities, ethnic groups in the area in which the programme is being broadcast. The law provides for RTS to produce and publish audio, i.e. audio-visual media content on at least two television and three radio programmes on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and RTV on as many programmes on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Public media service bodies are the Management Board, Director-General and the Programme Council. The Public Media Service Management Authority is the Management Board which has nine members whose mandates last five years. The law regulates the work and authority of the Director-General. The decision to appoint the Director-General shall, after the competition has been carried out, be taken by the Management Board of Public Service to a two-thirds majority of the total number of members. The term of office of the Director-General shall be five years and may only be repeated once. The programme council is foreseen as an advisory body within the framework of media public services. The Programme Council shall have 15 members elected by the Administrative Board of Public Service on a proposal from the Assembly Committee responsible for the field of information, both in the Republic and in the Regional Assembly. The Republic of Serbia provides a stable and sufficient source of funding for the basic activities of the public media service. The way and conditions of providing these funds should not affect editorial independence and institutional autonomy of the public media service. Public media services are financed from public revenues, taxes and budgets of commercial and other revenues. The law stipulates that public income funds can exclusively be used to finance the basic activity of the public media service and cannot be used to finance commercial activity. If there is a suspicion on the basis of information obtained in the control that public income funds have been used for the commercial activity of the Board of Regulators will be submitted to the body responsible for the control of State aid requests for the ex post control procedure. By adopting this law and formally abolishing a radio-television subscription. Public media services will be financed from the budget until the beginning of 2016 when a tax cannot be introduced to more than 500 dinars. The payer shall be any natural and legal person who is the beneficiary of the electricity measurement per unit, i.e. per business space. Public media services will keep records of the payer's fee. The law sets out how to pay the tax. It is prescribed that the tax is paid to two separate RTS and TV accounts by automatically focusing 30% of the funds on the RTS account. The law provides in detail which natural and legal persons are exempt from paying taxes. Disabilities and socially endangered individuals and households were taken into account. It is also an accurate method of tax exemption. The other allowed form of funding of public services is from public income is budget financing. The law stipulates that public media services can make revenues and carry out commercial activity. The law provides for the kind of expenditure of public media services that can be public, commercial and common. The law provides for the obligation of public media services to develop a methodology for monitoring direct and indirect revenues and expenditure relating to the performance of their basic and commercial activity. Public media services adopt an act that is closer to regulating the management of separate accounting for basic and commercial activity. The internal auditor shall monitor the application of this act and report to the Management Board of the Public Media Service. RTS and RTV are obliged to submit once a year to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media a report on work and business for the previous year, and the report must be accompanied by reports by an independent authorised auditor. The report on the work and business of RTS and RTV for the previous year is under review by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The report shall be drawn up in a way that clearly separates the basic activity from the commercial activity of the public service and that clearly sees the sources of financing the activity. ` It is a set of media laws that lies ahead of you and which, in the full set of reform laws that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is currently passing, is proposing to the Government of the Republic of Serbia is also an extremely important step towards democratisation of our society and towards EU accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5874	Thank you. Ljiljana Nestorović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5875	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the laws I'm discussing today are in my deep confidence all the neural points of our media sphere. So, about what is concretely defined by these laws, and in what specific ways is exhausting, as we have heard and seen, I have spoken to the minister. Clear and precise explanations are given in the bill itself, so I won't take time away from you or the public by going back to it. What I'm saying right now is that we really have one comprehensive legislative regulation for the first time, perhaps the most important social areas. It's an indisputable fact. I think even the tiniest ones can hardly find any more serious objections and make more serious criticisms to these legal proposals. I note that the laws are written in the spirit of European practice and European experience. That they had been praised by Brussels and even professional associations. So I don't think there's any reason why this assembly meeting in voting day won't adopt them, because they're basically good and they're giving that base, the basis for the accumulated problems in our media sphere to be solved as soon as possible and as concrete as possible. I don't think it's this law, and actually these bill proposals can solve a bunch of problems, I remind you once again, and I'm undermining but I think this is one if it's not enough, and it's a necessary step on that path. That is why SDPS MPs will certainly, with the deepest confidence that this is the right step in the right direction to support all these laws and I believe it is to the satisfaction of both professions themselves and in line with the reform processes. I can talk about these laws from three positions. I can speak as a citizen, as a journalist television with many years of experience in our media, and I can speak as a politician and in all three ways I will speak. I am a witness from within and outside, how professional and media sphere is burdened with accumulated problems and complex problems, which have been piling up for years, we must be honest and emphasized. As a politician, I think after all these years it's clear to me where we've made the biggest mistakes, systemically, that this wouldn't be on the agenda here today, it could have been a lot sooner, but what it is, it's there, because for spilled milk it can't be cried or it makes a lot of sense. The problem in the media where I speak is multilayered and they are structural, financial, and above all, I have to stress as a journalist, ethical nature. The fact is that there is a crisis of journalistic profession, a profession that, in my opinion, except for the trade, in a broad one general education, is primarily based on ethical codes. A journalist who does not view himself as an apostle of the truth, who does not slave or serve the only truth, cannot call himself a journalist, nor is it a profession that this person deals with journalism. So I think that journalism would survive in general as a profession in this era of enormous challenges both within the profession itself and in economic terms, but also in the fact that we are in an entirely new era, when the Internet is increasingly taking over many of the functions that journalism has been doing so far, it must be redefined, and reaffirmed, above all, on professional and ethical standards. You can hardly hear observations when things are set up like this, that even in times of severe economic crisis, in which our society is found, it's very difficult to talk about ethics, that it's a marginalized category, and it can only be talked about when we come to a stage of excess of any kind, material, first of all, and when it's a society that we seek, well-being. But I think exactly the opposite, I believe that the abstraction and repealing of ethics as something important, the greatest cause of most of the problems we face today, not just in this area, but as a society at all. I think the ethics of a measure of civilization and the decency of a society, such as freedom of thought and words, is actually the first prerequisite for democracy and civil society. The issue of ethics in the profession is the problem of the profession itself and professional associations. They have to deal with this issue, to fight for their freedom, for their professionalism, to raise their own standards. I know it's not an easy job at all, I know on a personal case and from personal experience, but winning freedom was never an easy job, nor would it ever be. The government made a maximum approach to the Assembly of this proposal, setting the basis for a full and comprehensive media reform. If we think that as the responsible government responsible MPs, the things that are important for the changes in our society, we are doing it right, we must always start to evaluate what has been done so far and be aware of where mistakes have been made. We need to be aware, in a very short time, because we don't have time to spend a lot of time. We have to be aware of where we're wrong now. Only if that's how we analyze the past, it makes any sense to talk about the past. I believe that in the field of information and media spheres, in Serbia at all, major mistakes have been made, and I must say, I must point out, because immediately after October 5th, things have not been set up so that the media sphere is seen as crucial for the further construction of a democratic and civil society, that this was left for later, that it was precisely the new power used in a certain way by the media in which the state was the crucial owner, that it used them in the way it had previously fought. Although the Law on Broadcasting was adopted in 2002, which found the existence of the RRA as an independent regulatory body, in practice, he took over his job much later, and there created this space for the intrusion of tabloids with which we have so many problems today and we must admit, to a large extent, the problems our society is dealing with and banalizing our reality. Instead of taking over the story of a critical, professional, independent on the most important social issues at the time, the work has been taken over by the tabloids and this is a road that is increasing exponentially all the time. Tabloid pressure is increasing. I think the solution to this situation is actually the adoption of laws like this, which are not enough, but are necessary as a media photo to settle the situation in our media sphere. I also want to point out, it's not easy to enforce these laws. Most of the problems and most of the issues raised in public debates these years and now, are the issues of the survival of local media following these changes that laws bring, or after the end of their funding by the state. It is a fact, a difficult economic situation right now, but also for those media and their survival, but that's one thing we have to do. I say again, it should have been done long before and if the laws had been respected, the 2003 law, I mean the Information Act that defined the deadlines in which the state has to come out of media ownership, we wouldn't be dealing with these problems today. These deadlines of the law are constantly delayed, extended in the end as a category, and that is why it is now up to this government to solve these problems, to face the problems of local media, and therefore these are reform laws and they are very difficult. On the other hand, if the state retains any kind of ownership in local media through the justification that it helps them transition and continues to give them space, it would be contrary to the basic principles of all international organisations and the EU to which we seek. It's impossible to get along that way. That's how it's supposed to be, because that's how you avoid the pressure of the government on the media itself, which is the basic idea. Furthermore, in addition to the question of the survival of the public media, the local media, I think that what this law has not precisely defined, and I think it would be better if it were, is two things. The Public Information Act has set the upper limit that local self-government and state should separate from the project financing budget, which I think is an excellent paper in the law itself. There's a certain upper limit that you can't go across. I am deeply convinced that there has to be a way to determine the lower limit below which cannot go when local self-government separates funding, co-financing of certain projects. I am sure that both the minister and the secretary of state have thought enough about it and I believe that they can give us an explanation here, which is why it wasn't done, because I think that that would make it easier for them in the future, because of these provisions, in fact, to make it easier for them in some way. The second thing I have to mention, as regards the Law on Public Services, as of 1 January 2016, it ends with any budget financing of the public service, a tax is being introduced, as the current concept of the subscription was inadequate and was not binding, the tax is a mandatory category. Anyone who doesn't pay a tax can be sued. It is important that, if citizens have already been citizens since 1 January 2016, they finance their public service, they have the right to, in a very simple way, one click on the button to see what this money is spent on to the smallest details. My only observation is that it was supposed to be in the law. I believe that there is time until 2016 for this law to be complemented, because this is the bond that creates trust between citizens and public service, which, by definition and in practice, must advocate civil interests. So that's about all I could say critically about this law and another thing that's very important, so, so so far, some people have been paying the subscription, some have not paid it. It is possible to make a decision to simply forgive those debts to those who have not paid. I think with this practice, those who don't pay better than those who pay their obligations to the state properly must stop and I think this law is also an opportunity to do so. I believe that it is possible that since 1 January 2016, when the tax bill comes into force, some moderation is found that people who have really paid their obligations to the Public Service properly and so far are given some benefits, making it easier to simply motivate people who have paid neatly to the state, are regularly paying everything that the state prescribes, that they are simply not at the end of the day someone who is lost and someone who is in some way punished. Once again, I welcome the adoption of these laws. I think that they are really in the line of duty, not only is Europe asking us, but it is good for both the journalistic profession and the public, and once again, I underline that as part of the majority, and MPs will vote for them when the day comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5876	Thank you, Miss Nestorovic. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Jugovic as rapporteur of the committee responsible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5877	Dear Ministers, chairman, respected co-workers of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, this government of Serbia understands the importance of adopting this set of media laws that are essential for major steps towards EU membership and for the comprehensive reforms of our society. The Committee on Culture and Information at the held session decided to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt this set of media laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5878	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) National MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5879	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, this is one set of reform laws. First of all, it is three laws, a full legislative proposal, not amendments and additions to certain laws, and it is about laws that regulate an important area of our social life after more than ten years, as we could hear in the opening statement of the minister. These laws were made in accordance with the prescribed procedure, public hearings were made, public hearings were conducted. At this last step alone, I think a failure has been made which has been proposed by an emergency procedure and sent to parliament for debate under emergency procedure. This denied the possibility that the MPs themselves who had only one day would have these three laws that had over 300 members analyze in detail and see that the final solution to what was in the previous drafts was made in the previous months. These plans were, above all, on the site several months ago of the Law on Public Information and Media and the Law on Electronic Media. It's a shame that this mistake was made, in our opinion, a mistake that these laws were directed by an emergency procedure, because maybe we couldn't look at all the elements of this law. We have submitted some 30 amendments, I believe that some of them will be useful to the ministry, that they will accept them, but, I say, it is now one practice and that is our, above all, political assessment that in this term all laws are passed by emergency procedure and it is hard sometimes to understand the reasons for urgency, that is also in this case the word. Serbia's media scene seems to me to be in the worst shape in 15 years. Today, we have censorship, which was also suggested by the senior representatives of the OSCE. We also have a phenomenon of auto-censorship that is not allowed under the ethical code of journalism. We have a lot of pressure on the media, on editors, on journalists by advertisers, because today the media is in an extremely difficult economic position and advertisers often know that they use their influence and influence editorial policy. What's good is that within a year of the adoption of this law, the state will come out of ownership in the media, but let's not fool ourselves, that date will be painful. Our concern is that many media outlets in smaller areas whose founders are municipalities or cities will be shut down at the end of this process, which is the possibility, as the minister himself announced. Also, the question arises, and how will the large print media function, I mean the newspapers "Politika", "News", when the government comes out of the ownership of these media, will they be able to maintain on the market given the difficult conditions and uncertain future of even printed media at the time of the development of electronic communications and the Internet? I think there's a legitimate concern for everyone today who works in the media, worried about their future, and I think we'll be in a situation in a year to discuss what with all these people who are likely to be out of a job. What these laws bring, they bring some adjustments, modernization, because things have changed a lot in the last ten years. They bring some changes in names, the RRA will no longer be the Republic Radio-Difusing Agency, but the regulator, as the law calls it, is a little strange name that we introduce into our dictionary, but well, I guess that's part of these European changes. I would like to say a few words about a sentence that the minister has spoken by reading an explanation for the proposals of these laws. He said this law would finally and formally suspend the subscription. I don't know how it was an informally suspended subscription, perhaps the informal suspension of the subscription has been published on the Facebook of the Prime Minister since 23 May 2013, Vucic said on Facebook – we will cancel the TV subscription. It probably resulted in a number of Serbian citizens stopping paying the subscription, and it is certain that this two years, an analysis of how much less each month the citizens paid the subscription. I think that percentage was over 50% two years ago, now I'm reading in the media that it's below 20%. It is unusual for the highest official, then vice-president of the government, to invite citizens not to execute, practically legal obligation, and not as the official of the government, to propose amendments to the law, in order to free the citizens from these obligations. Now we're saying -- we're canceling the subscription, we're probably gonna hear a lot about it today, but citizens need to know, and that's also said, it's not a secret, it's a 17-month fee. Serbian citizens will pay a fee instead of this subscription. You know, from the point of view of the citizens, he's been giving 500 dinars for a subscription so far, one service called a subscription, in a year and a half, giving 500 dinars for a fee, I don't think the builders care much what it's called. The amount that today will be reintroduced in a year and a half. Unfortunately, then the salaries and pensions will be at least 10% less. If the heart of the prime minister in the meantime hardens, it may be even less, and I think it will be difficult for citizens to pay for that obligation, and we also heard in the explanation that the subscription is something that has not been binding so far, although I do not understand that it was not binding, because it was made clear by the Radio Diffusion Act. Also, the public service also had a duty to ensure that citizens who do not pay that subscription are sued. Of course, the fate of these complaints is such that, if I remember correctly, about eight thousand complaints, all a thousand are charged. If below 30% at this time pays a TV subscription, it means somewhere around 1,700,000-1,800,000 citizens do not fulfil that legal obligation. We think that subscription, tax, whatever, is a good way to finance the Public Service. It allows the Public Service to achieve its role in the protection of public interest, to be independent of the government, not to turn itself into a government public service or perhaps something that someone in the government would want our public service in four years, say, North Korea, to report that Serbia won the World Cup in football, as in North Korea a few months ago. Those people there believe they're champions of the world in football. I think someone would like our television to report it that way and be so close to the truth. That is why we support and support our timely introduction of the subscription and we believe that it is good, regardless of the cost that the citizens require. We think it is also important that this is a mechanism that protects the Public Service from the influence of the Government, and I think that in the next year and a half until this tax comes into force, we will be witnessing the pressure of the executive authority on public service and reducing the role in protecting the public interest that the Public Service should have. We want to believe that these laws will really edit, above all, the Law on Public Information, the public scene of Serbia, that all the right owners will be registered in that register and that we will finally get a clear picture of who the media owners in Serbia are, electronically and printed. This law also provides for some solutions, which, unfortunately, exist today in Serbia, related to media ownership, which do not comply with the applicable laws that the owners of these media in a certain way have forged, that this will now be transparent and that it will be clear to everyone who owns the media, and then to conclude whether there is any interest and means of influence on the media by the owners. What is also good in the proposal for a law on public media services is that there will be no more MPs in the Programme Council membership. I know that in the past was one topic that caused a great discussion and media attention. We support it. Anyway, it's a good thing we're discussing these laws today, which will give us a chance to point to both good and bad solutions. We're within that short period of time that we've had time to write about 30 amendments. I believe they will help make these laws even better, but, once again, we regret the continuation of this practice that this ministry has adopted, to refer the laws to the Assembly by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5880	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5881	For the sake of truth and public, never Alexander Vukic, nor the SNS and no one from the SNS called for any bills to be paid at any level. That's why Mr. Alexander Vukic called for a non-payment of the TV subscription. But what is true is that representatives of the party to whom the previous speaker belonged made performances and brought barrels to the centre of their town and called on them to put the bills they received in that barrel. It's the truth evocated and media confirmed. As for the continuation of the policy that we have been listening to in this Parliament for two years since the formation of the Government in 2012 and the fear of citizens what would be and what would be, none of what was feared by citizens and 2012 and 2013 and 2014 has happened, but we have clearly seen what happened under Boris Tadic's regime. We have clearly seen that 400,000 people have lost their jobs, we have seen clearly where the standard went and that we are at the bottom of the European scale, not to say the world scales by standard, that we are at the bottom of the scale of the fight against crime and corruption. That's all we've experienced from Boris Tadic's regime, and now they're telling you -- you know, in two years we'll be that and that or we'll be that in a year. What right do people in Serbia still fear? What right is it said that Alexander Vukic called for no bills to be paid, the same ones who put those accounts in the bins?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5882	Thank you, Mr. Granny. People's MP Marko Djurisic, a replica, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5883	Thank you. I was talking about the current Prime Minister, and the senior official of the government for two years and two, three days, it seems to me, that he was going to cancel the subscription, that the subscription was being abolished. All this when you're told by the highest official, there's a consequence that the subscription falls from month to month. I was talking about it. That time and what caused the account burning in those barrels, Mr. Babic, I think it's better if we don't talk, because this discussion can take us a long way from what we need to discuss today. We don't scare the citizens. We're saying what we think is going to happen and what we're saying, like you said, for the last two years, it's all happened, unfortunately for us. I'm not happy that citizens live worse today than they did two years ago. I am not happy that there are more unemployed in Serbia today than two years ago. I am not happy that Serbia today has a deficit four times bigger than two years ago. I am not happy that Serbia is in charge of the new six billion euros in the last two years. I'm not happy that wages and pensions are reduced. I am not happy that they will be reduced only after the announcement of both the former minister and the current prime minister. I'm not happy about these things, even though I should be politically thinking about profiting from it. I share the fate of six and a half million citizens of this country who have a hard time living and I'm talking about this government doing nothing to make them live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5884	Thank you. The People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5885	I am not happy that the regime of Boris Tadic has destroyed Serbia, but I am happy that I belong to a political party who will raise the country and I am happy that we will raise and arrange our country. I am happy that we do not go out in front of Serbian citizens with descriptive descriptions of how nice it was until 2012 and how well people were doing, and we all know statistics show that 400,000 people under Boris Tadic's regime are out of work in Serbia. I would be happier if they had acted more responsibly during the crisis, and I would be happier if they had appeared more honest and responsible to the citizens and had not raised their wages by 68% in the public sector and in public enterprises only to win elections and to form some governments. I'm not happy that the bill for such an irresponsible policy has arrived now, but I'm willing not to go into the public with the populist, but to tell them what's real, that what we inherited is the weights around the legs and around the hands of this Government of the Republic of Serbia and that we're going to fight to leave these weights in the past, but I'm also going to try to remind these weights of both citizens and those who have weights in this government and set them up. It is difficult, but we will fight to change everything that is our past, everything that Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party left for us at that moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5886	Thank you. I'm closing this circle of replicas and there's a minister in the government called Ivan Tasovac. Here you go. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. The word was given to the minister, so you can't get the word now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5887	I'd have to refer only to a remark about the urgency of the procedure. We must be aware that the media strategy was passed three years ago and that it meant that these laws would be passed over 18 months ago. If we look back into an even wider context, you know very well when the last media laws were passed, and if we look at it that way, it's not really any accelerated, it's a very slow process. What the Serbian government has been insisting on at this point and what it is fully aware of, is that we must pass laws, not only because we need them, but because they are the precondition for our EU accession. No one has mentioned here as an argument that for more than a month, the Serbian government has practically worked to resuscitate what floods are and try to regulate life, to run normally, and of course this legislative activity was slowed down at that point. If it hadn't been for that, I'm sure there wouldn't have been this urgency either. It's a procedure that's not now made up, it's something that's absolutely foreseen. Let me tell you, if there was a debate in some laws during the previous period and if some laws were passed publicly and transparently, these are these media laws. It's on one side. On the other hand, what is very important to me and what I am truly looking forward to is that you have spoken a sentence, quote you, subscription and tax are a good way to finance a public service. So at this point we have a year and a half of the funding of public service from the budget, enough time for public services to stand on their feet, to strengthen, to enable this stable funding. It's a year-and-a-half of the time until a tax is introduced. The difference between a subscription and a fee is that the subscription has a kind of volunteering, and the tax is mandatory. If we agreed that this was the only way, believe me, inside the government were very big debates. If the prime minister accepted what the recommendations of the professional public, the recommendations of international organisations, the recommendations of the European Commission, which shows that this is the only way for the independent work of public services, then I see no reason to deal with demagogy whether or not it should have been done. We agreed. What matters is that you as an opposition agreed that tax is a good way to finance public services.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5888	The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5889	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Information, the Honorable Fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, I am pleased that today we are discussing an extremely important set of reform laws, three media laws, for which there has been enough public space and time for us all to express our opinion together. Also, based on what we could hear back a few months, and based on these draft laws, I think we have enough arguments and with full confidence I can, on behalf of my colleagues and fellow MPs of the SPS, say that in voting day, we will support these bill proposals. So it's about the proposal for a law on public information and the media, which is one roof law, the proposal for a law on electronic media, it's the law of a new generation, and something that's been discussed for 20 and more years, almost a quarter of a century, as it would say, the proposal for a law on public media services. I'd like to talk a little more liberally about this set of media laws. I would remind all of us, who have a number of years and who remember the former one-party system, that regardless of the adoption of the democratic and liberal principles of Europe, our consciousness, our political and our public consciousness, still comes from the time he was in power, here I am looking at Professor Micunovic, he will surely remember Article 113, who was so-called. It's a verbal delinquent. We made a civilizational and democratic leap from that time when the law was in force, or a member of the Criminal Law in the former Yugoslavia on verbal delinquency, so far a new digital society. Minister Tasovac has already said that a dictionary in EU legislation has changed, as new evolutionary names are adopted for various provisions of law, freedom and responsibilities in the field of media freedoms and media action. Minister Tasovac used on the Committee on Culture and Informing a term that I liked very much. Said the media community. He stressed that this was not just about journalists, whether they were editors, journalists, media owners, but that it was about viewers, listeners, readers. So this is about all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have a public interest in being better and more credible. So this set of media laws concerns the human rights of all of us. I find, reading all the provisions of these three laws, that this is about moving the limits of human freedom. We are all exposed to a new age, information age, electronic age, digital society, where modern technologies allow a fast flow of information, but also misinformation. On behalf of the SPS, I would say that I think it is our assessment, and also some professional news associations, that this law has met all five required objectives on which the most consequences of media words have insisted. So, with this set of laws, the state has decided to step out of media ownership, privatisation will be implemented, conditions for the transparency of the ownership structure, which is extremely significant, and after the failure of privatisation, ownership of the media will remain employed, project financing has also been made possible. These five goals have been met with this set of media laws. Minister Tasovac and my distinguished colleagues also stressed the most significant institutes in each of these laws. We consider, as I have already said, the most significant withdrawal of the state from ownership in the media, the definition of a transparent financing system, the transparency of the ownership structure in the media. So she's no longer in the gray zone. In the economy, we have a fight against that gray zone, illegal, illegal or secret, hidden financing. The public interest in Article 15 is also defined. Public interest is extremely important, we consider it extremely important, because it is based on human rights and freedoms in the way they are defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, on freedom of opinion and expression, freedom of expression of nationality, ban on the challenge of racial, national and religious hatred, except for those freedoms of the media and the right to information. However, it may have been more intense to define members of the 15th public interest, perhaps more insistent on what is a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is to encourage respect for differences. Of course, there are provisions where both the majority population of Serbian origin and members of national minorities are also vulnerabilities that are particularly sensitive, minority, guaranteeing that their cultural identity and their human rights will be largely represented, especially in the proposal for a law on public media services. So let me also point out what Minister Tasovac has already stressed, that we all need to get used to a new terminology that is also technical. So, the termology of new audio-visual media services passes from analogue n digital broadcasting and simply, we are in an accelerated learning process. This may also be the reason for this accelerated, urgent procedure of passing this law, but I am still stressing that our impression is that there has been enough time for both the professional association and all the professional and interested public to give sufficient suggestions, comments and to get an answer. I remind you that even on the website of the Ministry of Culture and Information, there was an interactive form of communication on the set of these media laws. As far as the proposal for a law on public media services is concerned, that's what most citizens are interested in, and that's how many of them are entitled to be informed, the right to information will cost. This is what every citizen of the Republic of Serbia feels as an additional cost and simply when he turns on the TV, he knows that he has the right to choose between different channels and perhaps sometimes finds too much to pay for it. But I want to quote a sentence that the Supreme Judge of America, the Supreme Court, said -- taxes and taxes are what we pay for enlightened society. So we are on a continuous mission to all spread the space of freedom, but also to protect human dignity and personality, to spread the democratic values of our society, and that is the same expression that is incorporated, especially this Law on Public Information. So television or other forms of electronic information have really become an open book through which the wide layers of our citizens, especially younger generations, educate and educate and grow into responsible citizens. That's why it's important that we all pay our subscription. The papers also show different accounts of how much she doesn't pay. There is information that only one quarter of the subscribers pay that subscription, but I think it's with the development of a culture of responsible citizens. The way we learn to pay taxes to the state, to have a full state budget, so we don't have a deficit, to get used to looking for fiscal bills, so we'll pay disciplinedly something that will make our children responsible citizens for the 21st century. I had some other sayings that suggest this continuous relationship of interaction. I must also mention respected journalists and editors who are on such exhausting tasks, and especially in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who are closely following us and reporting from the Assembly, I would like to remind you of a saying by the famous poet Heinrich Heine who said that in the fight for the idea that the newspapers are forts, so the media have always been forts and struggles for freedom, fighting for the development of political rights and freedoms. I've already said that these boundaries have become flexible, that everyone interprets their truth in a different way. Sometimes we look on different sides, we politicians who deal with politics or public function holders and those who have one, so to speak the obligation to report our actions and words. I want to stress that this is an interactive relationship and that in these provisions, especially the Public Information Act, there is a lot of room for emphasising the concept of media freedoms, but also the limit of these freedoms. We often wonder what the limit is for someone to freely express their opinion and to say what he thinks in public, whether he's a politician or a public official or a journalist. I'd like to quote John Stewart Mill again who says that the freedom limit is one man's freedom to do no harm to another man's freedom. So there is this thin thread between the right to freedom of opinion and also critical opinion, in particular this is expressed in Article 8. The law on public information, where the explicits stand that public officials are obliged to suffer. It's a rather picturesque legal formulation, which may sound different, but we shouldn't complain, because it's something I've already said, an interactive relationship between us and citizens. It's between MPs and the media. We also pay attention to what they think and what media law sets have brought to the public by professionals, so media, journalists and various journalistic professional associations. They place different remarks and are always there as in any field of human rights struggle, a disputed struggle for funds, a struggle for budget financing, and also a struggle for fair competition. So, the anti-mono-poly fight between competitors who are on the open media market. Finally, the question arises – why and when are we free to regulate as legislators of the media market? On the one hand, we have this principle that I am constantly stressing on behalf of the SPS, because we were in power when it was difficult for us and our political competitors and opponents, and also for public media representatives to find the right measure of conviction, criticism or approval or justification for some of the government's moves. I think that every single set of furniture in power seems to be re-teaching that lesson, that re-relationship with the media. I have already mentioned this verbal delinquent, and in 113, from former Yugoslav criminal legislation, where people, fighters for democracy, pioneers of the struggle for democracy were hit by that member and I am pleased to conclude that today in the Constitution of Serbia, it is said that there is no censorship in the Republic of Serbia and should not be. Therefore, we should adhere to these provisions that have been introduced, especially this roof law on freedom of the media, and that we all share the responsibility for the public word together. Once said, no matter what words are not works, it creates some serious consequences in society. Also, let us remember our people’s wisdom, which says that words are bought, for sure they would be less pronounced. So these provisions of the law also measure that strength of our words and that power of our responsibility for every spoken word, because we also bearers of public functions and journalists, or media, can pay high penalties for what they convey as credible and true. I wanted to put emphasis on the concept of freedom and I said what we think within the SPS, with this political experience of almost one quarter, 25 years, and we hope that these legal provisions will give us and the press enough space, and also to the citizens that we are developing a critical but responsible spirit and cultural dialogue, a democratic dialogue in the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I would like to stress that the SPS MPs will support and vote in favour of these three media laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5890	Thank you. Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5891	Mr. Minister, the government has announced that in the first 100 days of its work it will bring between the rest and a set of media laws. That promise is fulfilled. It is my great pleasure to address both our public and fellow MPs today, but also to you as a person I have great respect for for a truly brilliant professional career. A lot of experts have been involved in the preparation of this law, but there have been a lot of problems. There were a lot of problems in the task force, there were a lot of problems during the public debate, perhaps even some pressures that were not popular. As a result, we have a proposal for a law on public information and the media which, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, is quite correctly prepared, which respects everything that needs to be respected in this sphere, those basic principles that are good and which will largely regulate the behaviour of the media, which has often been really inappropriate from disrespect for human dignity, from disrespect for the presummation of innocence, from an inappropriate dictionary, from the lack of respect for the rights of particularly sensitive and vulnerable groups. Despite the fact that the law forbids them to act in such a way, there is also what is called a deficit better arranged than in previous laws, there is also judicial protection, there is a judicial charge of damage. It is a similar situation in the Law on Electronic Media, and the Law on Public Media Services, in my opinion, should be called the Law on RTS and the Law on RTV, because it does not foresee the formation, establishment or operation of other public services beyond these two media institutions. We always call for the best European practice in lawmaking, even in the adoption of these laws. As a parliamentary group and as part of the ruling majority supporting this government, we are absolutely advocates of best European practice, but I would add something else, as appropriate to our conditions. Our objections when we were in the government of Prime Minister Cvetkovic and criticism of some previous governments in which we were either part of the ruling majority or were not part of the ruling majority, our behaviour was very similar. In fact, we have always sought, and so we will act, to apply all the laws in this broad spectrum, a wide range of different types of European experiences, because there is not one in any area in the EU, except these strategic directions, basic principles, etc., it is a wide range of different solutions whose meaning is similar. We have often made solutions that were the worst solutions to European practice or a combination of different bad solutions. When I said that these laws were a big step forward, I had in mind the fact that our media scene was quite messy, that the need for timely, objective, correct information was so expressed, especially between 1990 and 2000, that citizens often did not regret their lives and risked their lives to defend media freedoms. I am a member of the political party that was probably the most active in this, and I went to defend even the repeater TV Pirot and Goč repeater TV Kraljevo and we defended then "Independent Light" in Kragujevac, we defended TV Kragujevac when it threatened to attach it to the RTS system at the time, etc. We've seen everything and everything. During that period, the government was indeed quite rigid. We had to make such moves of the government in such a way that we could respond. What happened after 2000, I would like to say a few sentences about it, and none of my colleagues mentioned it, I reported deliberately among the last speakers as an authorised president, that is that the state did not carry out first of all the privatization of the media. There have been, I think, quite appropriate proposals to pass a special law on media privatisation, precisely because of the specificity of this type of activity. Simply the media are bought as potatoes at the market, often by people with no experience working with the media and no idea what to do with the media. I've often been in the environment of people who boasted, he says – I bought TV and I'll make it all right, it'll be the best TV, and after a very short time, television will experience a total fiasco. In 2000, 109 votes were to be privatised, of which 81 electronic ballots, 28 printed public messages, 56 media were privatised, 37 cases were suspended, seven public reads by the decision of local self-government ceased to exist, nine public votes were not sold at auction sales. Of the 56 privatisation contracts, 18 privatisation contracts were terminated, 38 privatised public votes barely operate on the edge of economic survival, and only one privatisation, including Radio Srbobran, received a positive assessment of the culture ministry. I think this last sentence is exactly the biggest slap to all those who have ever made such decisions about such a way of privatising the media, because if only privatization of Radio Srbobran got a positive score, then it's the fact that talks about such a state the most. As a consequence of all this, we no longer have good local newspapers, such as Kragujeva's "Lights", "Ibar News", some very popular TV stations have been shut down, which have indeed performed an important function in creating local public opinion and in timely, timely and objective information to citizens on topics specific to their local community. What is my question, and I believe that this is something that will be of interest to most MPs when we talk about amendments, you know, ministers, that is especially, media are often absolutely unprofitable, especially TV stations that work in areas where the population is small density, where the economy is in very poor condition, where there is a high unemployment rate and they simply cannot survive in that area. What's needed here now? There is a need for state intervention, even to help these media to achieve several impacts, in addition to those of information-related effects, to decentralise media space, to give another boost to the survival of people in those environments, because you can see that there is a huge democratic discharge of Serbia and when people are eliminated by some institutions or when they cease to exist TV, radio stations or local voices, they simply say – there is nothing going on here, there is nothing here, I go to Belgrade, Novi Sad or to EU countries. That's why I think the deadline for privatising the media by July 2015 is very short and I'm afraid that, given the experiences we've had in the past 14 years, instead of the good intentions you want to achieve, it will bring a worse result. For what? Simply, investors today do not invest much more profitable actions than the media. This kind of fear is justified, and it seems to me that there is a need to carefully consider those proposals, including myself, which require that this deadline be extended to a more appropriate period. What is really commendable about the Law on Public Information and Media and the Law on Electronic Media is that journalistic ethics, journalistic professionalism and a different dictionary are promoted. I think it's a good thing that a high degree of protection of minors is achieved from various inappropriate content that has a major impact on the development of personality in the period of development and growth. Because when you create something for them, when something is going on in the media, especially the media with a national frequency, it has a huge impact on the development of minors. I am someone who has mentioned at least 10 times in this Assembly these truly inappropriate shows that go in inappropriate terms, such as "The Mad House", "Frme", "The Moment of Truth", "The Big Brother" etc. These emissions should exist, but should exist in a different term and should not be advertised in the way they are advertised, precisely because of the negative effects they have on the development of young populations. Minister, when I said the Law on Public Media Services was supposed to be called the Law on Radio-Television of Serbia and the Radio-Television Law of Vojvodina, here's what I meant. The media strategy was adopted on 28 September 2011. You, in the light of the bill's proposal, are referring to the Media Strategy. I am someone who has at least asked the previous culture ministers five times in the National Assembly -- since there have been enormous pressures to disrespect the Media Strategy or to change the Media Strategy, will the Ministry of Culture resist these pressures? I called them - Belgrade's interesting media lobbys. For what? Their interest is quite clear and legitimate, to fully master Serbia's media scene and thus make huge profits. I've received a few answers from your predecessors, that no one at the ministry can exert that kind of pressure, that the Ministry will resist all pressures and that the Media Strategy will be respected. Now, the Media Strategy envisions the formation of six regional public services. It was precisely this previous introduction that was only part of the argument and analysis of the situation in the media in Serbia, especially local media and media in the province. You have, as far as I can tell, noded me to my command. We have calls for European experiences and a deviation from the Media Strategy. For what? I expect that answer from you. From the Media Study, we can see that Austria has nine regional public services, Germany 11, Sweden even 19, Great Britain 11, Denmark eight, Norway 11 and Croatia, Hungary and Bulgaria, the surrounding countries. European practice, best European practice, implies the existence of regional public services. If there is an internal media, primarily due to the general economic situation in the country and because they are mostly non-profitable, stop working or compete for certain projects to be suppressed by the media, primarily from Belgrade and the media with the national frequency, what will we have? First, about funding. The current subscription was kind of voluntary, and the fee will be mandatory. We belong to a very reasonable parliamentary group and we know that someone has to finance the media. Whether citizens will finance it through fiscal or parafiscal institutions is irrelevant to citizens. Whether that money will go into the budget and be financed from the budget, whether that money will go to the sub-account of Serbia's TV or RTV Vojvodina, that concerns the citizen least. He's interested in one thing – how much do I have to give a month to finance a public service and what return do I get from it? There's the beginning and the end of the story. What does this law predict? That 70% of the funds collected on the territory of the AP Vojvodina will remain, that is to say, that 30% of the funds remain for the RTV of Vojvodina, and that 70% of the funds go to the account of RTV of Serbia, or vice versa, and all that in the rest of Serbia comes to the account of RTV of Serbia to belong to RTV of Serbia. I don't know how many analyses I'm going to call on are reliable, but many have been encouraged to say that only 5% of the funds that go to RTS would be enough to finance six regional public services in the rest of Serbia. Only 5%. Let's say it's 10%, let's say it's 15%, let's say it's 20%, but I think you should go this way. Here's why. There's something called practice. Serbia's radio-television has no capacity, no technical, no human resources, no time options, no financial options to replace and take over the role of regional public services, because, let's say, in order to monitor an event and carry out a live broadcast from within Serbia, for this to be a quality transmission, it is necessary to employ at least eight, 10 to 12 cameramen, technique, equipment and often 50 to 80 people. Fuel, diaries and all monitoring costs for just two hours of program. For example, previous "Serbia Today" emissions have shown that they published 800 information from Nisavsky County on an annual basis. When you divide that into a number of days, it's just a little more than two information a day. What did this information mainly refer to? Mostly black chronicles or some political events, sports events, cultural events, weather forecasts, or weather etc. It's so small for the needs of people in one county, any argument in the opposite direction is illusory. Since you have provided for the existence of regional public services, frequencies, or work permits to obtain regional public service status, competition has been opened and it is known who decides on it, there is no favoring any media, here today I am not representing the interests of any single interest group, not one single media, but I represent the interests of all Serbian citizens south of Belgrade. For what? Serbia's radio-television will have two television channels, three radio programmes, and Vojvodina's two television channels and three radio programmes. But that's not even the new sedation of the Duke. For what? Because we don't even have television to deal with specific New Sad topics again, and they won't be able to fully inform citizens of all events of importance for the life of Vojvodina. We don't even have Studio B as necessary...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5892	Time, 20 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5893	I'm done. ... A public service for nearly two million Belgrade citizens to deal with Belgrade's specific topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5894	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5895	So, you're talking a little bit from the perspective as if the moment the state pulls out not only of the media, but of any other company, the end comes. Here is a very clear decision by the Serbian government that the state is withdrawing from the media ownership structure and that full transparency of media ownership is being established. Of course, we are fully aware that in a strategy that does not represent a legal document, but some political definition cost six regional resources. But the question is really asked – how can it be financed? We have to face reality. The second thing, we're talking at this point, so in the APR you have 1,230 registered media, of which 81 media is waiting for privatisation. In addition, specific conditions for privatising the media are foreseen which mean that if an interested buyer is not found, that privatisation fails, the action will be offered to all employees in the media. You know, if we're talking about percentages, we're talking about about 80,230, me math isn't exactly the stronger side, but about seven percent of the media waiting for privatisation. If this 93% works and somehow survives on the market, I'm sure precisely because of their importance and specificity that they too will manage to survive on the market. Also another thing, which I think should be mentioned, which MP Nestorovic has raised as a question, and regarding the obligation of local self-government, in the amendment form, I think you said you would file for 2% of the singles to finance local media. You mentioned the decentralisation of the media scene. I mean, I like that word, but we can't do that decentralisation of the media scene at the expense of centralization of the entire system. In fact, if we were to write the law of this 2%, we would go into, let's say, the constitutional rights of local self-government to decide on their own how to dispose of their means and open up space so other spheres can also demand an exact percentage. It is one of the things that has been considered, but absolutely from the perspective of the entire system is not possible. I must tell you, you said in your discussion that you received answers from previous ministries that no one would press, etc., you received answers from this call and you received a proposal from this Serbian government from three media laws. I think it's just saying that we've done what was right in the domain of our business and we've managed to create a framework in which the media scene will be far better and that our citizens will have far better information.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5896	Thank you. The word is Master Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5897	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, before the National Assembly and in front of the Serbian public, found media laws that were long spoken of in public and exposed to the critical court of the public. If we start from the fact that information is one of the most significant resources after the nation's health, after the education of the nation, certainly the third resource that is important for the daily lives of citizens, then we must be aware of the responsibility we have before us when we pass these laws. When we looked at the three proposed laws, the Law on Public Information and Media, the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Public Media Services, we from the NS Parliamentary Group carefully read each member and submitted a really modest number of amendments that we wanted to act constructively and make these laws that represent a step into better public information even better. We hope the minister will have an understanding of what we have suggested. What has primarily defined us as supporting this set of laws is something that has long been missing in Serbia's information space, and is aware that information is the most expensive commodity at this time, it is certainly Article 4. Public information law and media. Article 4 says – public information is free and is not subject to censorship. This is what is really important to Serbia, and about auto-censorship, we will comment differently. The second view of this article says – direct and indirect discrimination between media editors, journalists and other persons in the field of public information according to their political determination and conviction or other personal property is forbidden. Which is also a serious step in journalism and the relationship of society to the media and information. The third attitude says – free flow of information through the media as well as editorial autonomy of the media should not be compromised, especially by putting pressure on editors, journalists or sources of information. It was also arranged by this same member to physically attack editors, journalists and other persons who participate in the collection and publication of information through the media is punished under the law. And freedom of public information – must not be harmed by abuse of official position and public authority, property and other rights as well as by influence or control over the means of printing and distribution of newspapers or electronic communications networks used to distribute media content. So it's a member of the law that really seriously promotes this activity with us. The public information system has a special character. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees freedom of opinion, expression and freedom of the media in accordance with the highest international standards. The law provides and protects citizens' right to true, complete and timely information. In September 2011, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a strategy for the development of a public information system in the Republic of Serbia by 2016. This was one of the key conditions for the Republic of Serbia to gain EU membership candidate status in 2012. The Action Plan for the implementation of the Strategy as the most important activity provides for the adoption of new laws to regulate the area of public information in line with the highest European standards. In this way, we meet and assume commitments on the planned path towards EU membership from a range of basic objectives, which the proposal for a new law on public information and the media wants to achieve, which is stated by the promoter, and in particular I would like to set out the following. Free development of independent and maximum professional media. Since I'm going to talk about some other members, I'm stressing especially this syntagma. Definitely withdrawing the state from most of the media except for the cases specifically identified. So the state still has an interest in staying present in some of the media. That's what we say hello. Clear definition of public interest in public information authorities. I think we've long missed to determine what is a public interest in information, what we want by informing to protect, what we want to shape. First of all, we must be aware that the media forms both the consciousness and the conscience of a nation or what would be called ethnic psychology. We are aware of the media's influence on the formation of personality. What once took place through some other forms of education has now been accelerated by the very influence of the media and we must not neglect that our future and our children, and I think that a colleague of Chikiriz spoke about earlier, is just forming a large part of the media. We have to protect generations of young people from the content that are fatal to their growing up, and hence, the perilous to society at all. Then, what we see here as defined is that it is achieving a transparent system of funding in the field of public information from the budget and moving on to the project financing system. Regulation and fundamentally improving the position of editors as well as improving the protection of the rights of journalists. I've already read that in this particular article 4 that defines it very clearly and specifically. Transparency of ownership in the media through the formation of media registers, the prevention of illicit association in the field of public information, the ban on hate speech, respect for human dignity and the presummation of innocence. Now that we're talking here that in the media we have to take care of and respect human dignity, I would only draw attention to Article 8. The law on public information on the media, which, in my opinion and in our humble opinion, is inadmissible, it reads this way, I will read it for the public of Serbia, refers to the position of public and political holders and says – chosen, appointed, or appointed holder of public and political functions, is obliged to suffer the presentation of critical opinions relating to the results of his work, i.e. the policy he performs, and is related to the performance of his function, regardless of whether he feels personally injured by the presentation of those opinions. I think this leaves space, quite arbitrary, even unprofessional. I don't think we can legally write down what someone is obliged to suffer, because suffering is something that's a little bit of a mix-up in the psychology zone. Suffering is something that includes the threshold of the possibility of suffering, etc., so that if we are not on boards or amendments a little bit reshape that it brings public and political holders back to this part of respect, human dignity, because people who carry public political functions are really public and have come to these functions, and for another, some other form of action, bear criminal and material responsibility as all other citizens. So, you don't have to leave this space, not even in the tracks as a possible abuse of some unsuspecting, some personal frustrations and everything else, because then we're getting into something that's not professional information, and you know what the news is, it's an old rule, the news is a spilled sack of feathers, it's an attempt to pick it up. So that's what I wanted to talk about. So the last thing I'm saying about this law as a quality, 10th point I've noticed, is providing conditions for adequate judicial protection in the event of a violation of the right to public information, and we also really welcome it. When I mention the development of independent and professional media as one of the objectives of the law, I will say that the provision in one of the introductions of the law prescribes that public information is free and that it is not subject to censorship and that is what has really defined us as supporting this set of laws. We know how long, as a political party, with many parties in this House, we have advocated that the opinion be made public and very transparent. I think that we are currently self-censoring is a much bigger problem and that many things will certainly be improved by achieving an adequate level of transparency of ownership over the media, which is also one of the basic objectives of this bill. This makes very important provisions in Articles 37 to 44 of the Law governing the existence of a media register. In particular, Article 39 provides that data must be entered in the register of the media, and in particular an important solution where data on legal and natural persons who directly or indirectly have more than 5% share in the founding capital is recorded in the register, the issuer. Data on their related persons, as well as data on other issuers in which those persons have more than 5% share in founding capital. So, it will make it clear who wants the impact that it has on the media and who wants to actually form or influence the formation of consciousness and conscience in Serbia. It is also an essential provision in Article 40 which prescribes that any change in the data subject to registration must be notified to the register within a maximum of 15 days from the date of its establishment. Article 44 provides for adequate financial sanctioning for those media issuers who are not entered in the register and thus try to avoid this obligation that will take effect early next year. We currently have an intransparent ownership structure of the media, one of the biggest problems, an obstacle to the further development of this segment in society. In public, unverified information is constantly bid on who is the real owner, which, or Sunday papers. We are even witnessing that individual media on mosses are unmovable, bickering at each other with all kinds of statements, so that the average reader, the citizen, cannot be understood and found in the general galatias of the information offered to him daily and thus automatically undermined by the Constitution guaranteed the right to true, complete and timely information. I believe that a new solution to which the media ownership structure will be transparent as realistically as possible will certainly affect the correction of the current situation. The state is also determined to withdraw from media ownership by half next year, resulting in a change in Tanjug's status, Radio Yugoslavia and Pandora. Another legislative proposal on electronic media thanks to extremely dynamic changes that have the character of the real technological revolution has the obligation to regulate this field legally, and for a long time the dominant role in the public information system of the Republic of Serbia certainly has electronic media. This requires constant improvement of existing technical standards as well as follow-up legislation. Rapid development has led to the creation of a number of international standards in the conventions and recommendations of the Council of Europe and the EU directives. Among other EU members, they must move from analogue to digital broadcasting by 2015. This also requires the amendment and addition of the accompanying legislation. In March 2010, the EU established a new regulatory framework for the provision of audiovisual media services by a directive of the European Parliament and the Council on the provision of audiovisual media services. Since the Republic of Serbia has gained EU candidate status, this directive has imposed the need to bring the current legislation of the Republic of Serbia into line with the standards set out in the directive in the next process of approximation and accession of the Republic of Serbia's full membership. International documents in this area specifically need to mention the European Convention on Transboundary Television of the Council of Europe, which the Republic of Serbia ratified by the Law confirming the European Convention on Cross-border Television Co-operation in 2009. So, what I'd like to draw attention to in the third draft of the law, the draft law on public media services, that's what the colleagues have already touched here, if we will, and previously as a political party we've spoken a lot in this House about a television subscription or a taxi as it will be called in the future. The minister explained nicely that the subscription is something that has the character of volunteering, and that tax is something that is mandatory. I think we're going to face this one serious problem that we've had about that bill no matter what the tax is. It is precisely with a few practical problems because someone who negotiates a relationship with Elektro-distribution does not guarantee that it will use a clear contractual relationship to purchase a certain type of service. It does not guarantee that it will have an obligation to buy TV, or whether it will be someone who will use public service services at all. Once, about forty years ago, 30 years ago, Serbia had one good practice each of them negotiated their relationship with a public service and paid for it. And there was no problem even I think it was one of the most valuable subscriptions I paid at the time. I think that such a legal solution should have, of course, been more modernized or more modern and more appropriate in today's case, because then we would have avoided breaking several laws that would, above all, bring about data, etc., individual ones that would appear, because I think it would really bring some problems in practice. Voluntary and contractual commitment between citizens and public service will certainly raise both the dignity and responsibility of the public service, but also the citizens. I say, it was already in Serbia's practice, it's not unknown, it was very popular at the time, it was accepted, and I think that we Serbian citizens can come back with one such step in what they were, and Serbian citizens want to be responsible citizens, no matter how difficult it is and how difficult some standards and some views have changed. First of all, public information can certainly shape that part of the awareness among citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5898	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, of course we are talking today about very important laws with a very important topic and every time we talk about media, media freedoms, the way the media works, it is an important and political topic. The very amount of correspondence, comments, suggestions, suggestions that each of the MPs probably received, suggests that the interest in this topic was great, both in the previous two years, while the debate on these topics took place, and in the previous two days when the legal proposals themselves appeared quite suddenly, and that seems to me to be the time in which each of the parliamentary groups and each of the MPs received a large number of suggestions, comments and suggestions both for the amendments, and for some of the topics which the laws deal with. This is a topic that would be interesting, even if there were no such atmosphere as we are talking about today's media laws and the European Commission itself and the press associations and the professional public and the media public, it is increasingly heard that there is a problem with auto-censorship in Serbia. It's not something the opposition claims, it's something that all those who do so say. Serbia suffered a fall on that list of countries ranked according to media freedoms. I stand firm and the DS stands firm behind the view that where there are no censorships, there is no auto-censorship, because it will not be for the media to censor themselves what they write, that journalists give up, from the texts they have written, that portals or newspapers themselves do not publish texts that should be published on their pages and web pages, so that the very importance that today's debate has is greater, and therefore our obligation as MPs, as a representative of citizens, is greater to discuss these topics in a very serious way. In all those suggestions that came to us, I think we could all see that the attitude of journalists' associations is more or less uniform. All praise that the laws are prepared in accordance with the basic intensities of the media strategy, to introduce some transparency criteria for ownership where there are some proposals and to improve this. The DS parliamentary group has also made amendments in this direction, defining public interest in the field of public information, direct regulation of rights and obligations of media and media MPs, adequate regulation in the field of electronic media and public service arrangements, and it certainly is one of the things that we will all agree that there are things in the laws that are positive, these are the things that have been done in collaboration with journalists' associations with international organisations and people who deal with it, but the same thing that everyone agrees with, is that it is a shameful way in which these laws came into the Serbian Parliament. It is not a problem, Mr. Minister, that there is an emergency procedure, that no one is disputed, of course, that there is a need for some laws to come by emergency procedure, but the problem is that if 31 of the laws that we have adopted in this assembly in this term, 30 laws are passed by emergency procedure, and more than 70% of them are in front of MPs 24 hours less, or they come to the Assembly 24 hours before the debate. No false statistics by Mr Babic on the Committee on Culture and Information justify the fact that we had less than 24 hours to prepare amendments to 333 members of the law. Even if the statistics used by the SNS are true, and it is not, but all true, it doesn't justify some former, real or out of the opinion of bad practice, it doesn't justify the current bad practice, and they don't say people who hate reforms, who hate the state, who are opponents of reform or malicious people, that's what people who are dealing with this say, that's what people who wanted to be consulted, who were also involved in the creation of the bill, and these people themselves say they had no idea what laws look like at the time they came to the Assembly, which is actually the most important thing. Their proposals are in line with what the DS also proposed as amendments. Some of the things we too could propose to the amendments precisely because of this short term, but we hope that if we reach some agreement, there will be a way to change them anyway. I will start with those things that the Transparency of Serbia referred to, and that is to say, some of the amendments that DS lawmakers have submitted. Part of their amendments refer to the protection of journalists, which is regulated and we have spoken to the Committee about it, I think that colleague Nestorovic on the Committee pointed out that it is also necessary by law to guarantee the protection of those journalists who refuse to publish some content, that it is not only enough to realize that the journalist has the right not to do so, but also to do some protection, I think that each of the journalists knows that sometimes the pressures can look and how not precisely because of the lack of protection to avoid these pressures. That is why additional protection should be given to journalists when it comes to it. Likewise, when it comes to the ban on discrimination against journalists, it should otherwise be banned, not just on the basis of political conviction, etc. and our amendments are indeed going in this direction to give these people legal protection so that they can do their job in accordance with ethical rules, with the professional code, and to carry out it in the ultimate manner in which they are bound by the law, i.e. in the public interest, so that citizens are timely, objectively, truly informed. The second part of Serbia's Transparency Amendment refers to the registry. They believe that there is a whole series of things left out when it comes to media data that should be made available to the public. One of the very important things to me is whether or not a medium has received funds in the election campaign from political parties, which political parties and our amendments are also going in this direction, given that it seems to me that it is more than obvious that it can have, it is little to say a strong influence on the editorial policy of the media. You have these amendments, given that some MPs, as far as I know the DS, have submitted them to all MPs, I hope we can reach an agreement on their adoption. What is quite a problem with the Law on Public Information and the media, Article 75, is a prohibition of discrimination, hatred, the spread of hatred, the promotion of violence, but Article 76 has been made an exception to this ban and it is said that there is no violation of the prohibition of hate speech if the information contained in Article 75 of this Law is part of the press text, and it has been published without the intention to encourage discrimination, hatred or violence against the person or group of persons of Article 75 of this Law, which actually says that media in some cases, if they are not aware or have no intention of doing so, can encourage discrimination, hatred, violence, etc., which is an extremely large problem. You know what our media sometimes look like. You know very well what happens to people on these media. I don't know, if we even give them the possibility that there are cases where the media can encourage violence, what's that gonna look like? I asked you on the Committee whether, for example, the intention to encourage hate when a former minister's picture comes out on the front page of a media titled "poisoner", and it is not the question of Goran Knezevic. It's a minister against whom no action is being conducted at that time. Is it, for example, an inciting violence or hate speech if one medium for days one family, who has experienced the biggest accident anyone can experience, has lost a child, has been accused for days of stealing the money intended to treat that child and is the hate speech and the intention of a hate speech if a journalist who dared to ask the president of the Serbian government a question at a press conference is exposed to the worst link on the cover of a media day by day? Who will determine if there was an intention to promote violence against these people? Who will determine the responsibility of this media if someone tomorrow calls himself a "poisoner" without any court proceedings, without any initial court proceedings, if someone does something to him? Will there be the freedom of this medium to publish such things because it has no intention of inciting violence? This brings us to two new topics that the same law deals with. We have also invested quite a number of amendments when the question of correction, answers, what the media associations have proposed, so-called. "Revocation" and so on. In fact, you're rather strange, I don't know why, I hope you'll answer, now you've introduced it to correct the false allegations, untrue information, and so on, now it can only seek the judicial path. So there is no, as in the case of an answer, obligation for the media to publish the response of the person asking for the answer to be published, so if the editor-in-chief refuses to do so, then that person can press charges. It remained, however, when the question of correction, so-called. The denials, as the citizens know, you did not foresee this first step, inter-step, when required by the media to do so, but you said that only a lawsuit can be required to publish the correction of that information as untrue, incomplete or incorrectly conveyed. It's a pretty weird formulation. Whether it's a failure or you intend to treat denials in such a way and thus give citizens the right to have objectivity in information, I don't know, but I hope you'll be able to respond. The same case is with the information on the suspension of the criminal proceedings. There is no obligation for the media, i.e. the editor-in-chief, to, in the same area, with the same equipment, to publish in the same area, and to inform against a person that a criminal procedure has been suspended, provided that he has transmitted information that a criminal case is being conducted against a person and the same is the case with what the media associations have proposed, and you have not included in the draft law, and that is the right to call it off, that is, if any information is shown to have been incorrect, the source of that information must recall that information. It's something that hasn't entered the law. Whether or not they will enter, it is up to you, given that the amendments in the Assembly exist. I'm not saying this theoretically, I'm saying very well knowing what's going on in our media, what our media looks like, that they're swarming with unknown, anonymous, and well-known sources from those places where the source shouldn't be. We have a case that one medium day by day publishes transcripts from polygraphs of various persons charged with the most serious crimes in this country. We have information that also comes from anonymous sources that come from the investigation, from custody, from the hearings, from the prosecution. We have people arrested on the front page of the media even when there are no charges against them. When it comes to the information on the suspension of the criminal proceedings, we have one very interesting piece of information when a group of people in the King was brought in in due course who were detained on suspicion that they had committed abuses in the restoration of the King after the earthquake. Then, in all the media, these people were declared the worst people, monsters that in this way abuse other people's misfortunes, etc. When proceedings against them were suspended, when it was found that they did not commit a crime, that information did not appear anywhere in the media. It is therefore important that information on the suspension of criminal proceedings is also required to be published in the same place with the same equipment as information on the conduct of criminal proceedings against someone. It's a very closely related situation with regulatory bodies. Everything that has existed as a ban so far exists in this law. These are assumptions of innocence, protection of personality data, objectivity, necessity to hear both sides. However, we also have the situation and the fact that citizens are aware that so far it has not been so and that regulatory bodies have not always responded properly. One of the concerns of the Association of Journalists was that the bill left a lot of possibilities for some arbitration of these regulatory bodies. I don't think it's removed. Again, if there is an opportunity to discuss this subject, we have amendments that could make it right. The fact is that in many situations when they had to react, these regulatory bodies remained completely absent. What about the owner of television that has a national frequency at which one year and a half days none of the government's only critical tones of work could be heard? What about the same man who uses the same national frequency he has to deal with his business opponents, the competition, the whole country if he has a problem with their tax administrations? What about when really the media shows up sources from those places where the sources shouldn't be? What about when a newspaper is actively involved in the work between some branches in the police and for days they write exclusively about it on their front pages? What about when the president of one opposition party is 300 times in two years on the front pages with the most serious charges, without any evidence, and that no single criminal case is being conducted against that man without talking about the fact that there are no charges, etc. These are all things where the regulatory bodies are gone. I think there's an obligation for it to be maximum strength, as is the case with all the regulatory bodies in this country, including these. It's something he'll be very happy to participate in. This brings us to the next topic, which is a criminal policy which is very strange in certain parts of it. The example works, but this is really just an example, article 140. The proposal for a law on public information and the media is provided that the punishment for the fact that, in the published information, if someone is identified as a perpetrator of a criminal act, i.e. adverts to the wrong or responsible before the court's decision and if the content of the media, which may endanger the development of minors, is not clearly and visiblely marked by a mark that a minor can make known in the published information that is fit to harm his right or interest, is the penalty for this is 50,000 dinars. It's really for a serious conversation on this subject inappropriate. If someone for jeopardizing the rights of a minor to pay 50,000 dinars, believe that it will in no way prevent them from doing so in the future, in the future, without talking about this stuff that really media judgments, instead of judgments, will cost them 50 grand dinars. It's just unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5900	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5901	I'm done. There's a lot more, as you can see, the topic of conversation. What we can agree on is that there are good things, it can be much better. Time was short. We're ready to talk about any changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5902	Mr. MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5903	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 107. - Parliament's dignity. I'll remind you that journalists are part of this House, too, because they report from it here. Someone's insulting the press, the whole esnaf, telling them about auto-censorship. Someone here is saying that journalists are people with no opinion and that they're trying around, they're writing the text, and then they pull it themselves. I'd like to ask you not to insult the press like that in the future. As an MP for power, I urge my fellow journalists to be more critical of the government because it is a good correction in society. If we are finally talking about the media link, and our former counterpart Goran Knezevic was mentioned, since he was an MP, so the media link survived by such democratic media, where no journalist was allowed to write from Dragan Djilas, or I already don't know from whom, or Bojan Pajtic. He survived the worst possible media lynch. Thirteen months in custody for God's justice, he got a release sentence, no one even apologized to him. I'd really like to ask you to respond to these things in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5904	Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day. No, I don't. ) The word has a minister in the Government, Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5905	In the end, you mentioned this fine of $50,000. There's a difference between punishment for natural persons and legal persons. The second thing, this law is in line with other laws that prescribe the level of punishment. I need to draw your attention to a detail. You're saying these laws came up suddenly. These laws were announced in Prime Minister Vukic's exposé. On the other hand, you called an emergency procedure a shameful way. I wrote that down. You said these laws were passed in a shameful way. Something that is in accordance with the law, something that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I would not characterise as embarrassing. Once again, we make it clear that, because of our EU accession, we need reform laws that we need to pass as soon as possible. This is not just about the Media Act and the Privatisation Act. That's what the Labour Act was like. Since you referred to "Transparency of Serbia", I must tell you about another Law on Electronic Media, "Transparency of Serbia" has characterized... So, what the public debate should look like, shows an example of the Ministry of Culture. Public hearings in the draft of the electronic media law. All the comments received were published on the ministry's website, and after the ministry's working group considered objections to the draft. The specific document published the result of this review, individually for each comment. Of course, we are not satisfied because some of our proposals have not been accepted, nor are the arguments that have not been made. In addition, we believe that this is a major step forward and a good guideline for other ministries in how they should act when they organise public debates. You know very well, and we didn't mention it as an argument, that the month and a few days the government was dealing with floods and the resolution of floods. Would it be justified now, because these laws have been discussed here for two years, to be postponed for another two weeks, for another month? At this point, we are absolutely in a position to pass those laws that are not even popular. As far as this law is concerned, what it does to me from this debate so far is that there is a consensus that has reached all press associations, the European Commission, etc., which is a consensus that these are essential things, that the media scene becomes far more transparent, better and that our citizens have better information and that our citizens are following, in the best possible way, what is European practice at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5906	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5907	For the sake of truth, I didn't say that an emergency procedure was embarrassing, but it's embarrassing that we have less than 24 hours to get to know 333 members. Public debate is one thing. What is the essence of the public debate is that the document suffers some kind of change during the public debate, among other things, which is why it is being organised. What's the bill's proposal for a bill is something completely different and something that journalists' association representatives claim they didn't know what it looked like, and I as an MP can confirm that we didn't know what it looked like. It's not a criticism to you. You have the right, as Government, to direct the National Assembly to laws and to ask them to be in an emergency procedure. It is a problem in the congregation that we of 31 laws 30 adopt by emergency procedure. It is a matter of our seeing what this congregation should do and how it should discuss what the government is telling us as a bill of law. I accept your response to the floods. He got a little licked up, I don't know what to say, especially since it's not quite clear exactly what the Ministry of Culture and Information has been working on for a month and a half to solve the effects of the flood. I don't want to get into it. For the sake of clarification, I had the need to say that it is not a problem that you have sent the law by emergency procedure, but the problem is that we are talking about all the laws in this congregation so that it does not pass 24 hours from the moment they arrive in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5908	The word has the People's MP, Riza Halimi, as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will talk about media laws. I'm going to start with that little earlier theme about the obligation to pay the TV subscription and these new fees that are of the same nature. On this occasion, I'd like to repeat the dilemma I've brought here before. Who should the citizens of Preshev pay that fee to? Is it RTS that doesn't provide normal monitoring of these programs because they don't have repeaters or a boost of TV signals in this community? Do you need to pay to a local organization that allows satellite tracking? Then the most important additional question here is, is it logical that the citizens of Albanian nationality pay either a previous subscription or a new fee when they don't have any minutes of programming in Albanian? I've been asking this question here for seven years and I never get the answer and we continue to have the same situation. I know it's a very different practice this year, but I'm talking about Presevo, Bujanovac and Bear, and that basic, constitutional, legal right that national minorities also have the right to inform in their native language. Also, is this public service important and how will it write about this area? Whether it will be like so far, occasionally when there are affairs of socially political or different natures with sensationalist prisms, with pre-set clichés that appear immediately from time to time. It's just waiting for a certain moment, so on these clichés, the patterns, not only of Presevo Valley but also of Sandzak, I think it's an established practice so far. So far, public information in Albanian in this area has been made through local media, which opened since 2002. The new media laws stipulate that only RTS, TV, will continue to function as public media services. In this situation, I believe that there will be insufficient provisions in Articles 13 and 16. Proposal for a law on public information, to provide adequate information in minority languages. These provisions are general, indeterminate, even in my opinion non-binding. In a situation where RTS does not have a minute of programming in Albanian and will be based on Article 142. The draft public information law of July 1st next year will be interrupted by the current practice of funding local media from the local self-government party, and since Article 142 provides that the privatisation of local media services that have been informed in Albanian will be obliged only five years after privatisation to preserve the current programming scheme. It is a very uncertain fate to inform in all languages of national minorities at all. What happens after five years, because of the huge financial problems? How can a legal obligation to inform in minority language be ensured when a customer has a complete right after that period to determine his own programming scheme? How will funding be distributed, what is foreseen from the republican level, the provinceal level, and especially by local self-government, municipalities, which have so far fully financed their local media, and also discriminated against private media that have so far had the most minimum conditions for normal work? Is there a danger of finding these new privatised media media that have been re-financed by local self-government? The big question is, what will happen, will an interested buyer of these local media show up in a year? These local media are overcrowded, they have a large number of employees and who will be that customer who will be able to function normally? Or will that practice of bad privatisation occur so far? Yesterday I said, over 500,000 valuable companies were sold for 2500 euros and eventually all workers remained on the street. Is it possible for the same to happen with these local media services so far, to have the same fate? Then what will be the fate of informing the language of minorities? What is provided for in Article 16? It says – national advice is given the possibility to form these institutions, but you will admit that it is not the same situation as in Article 2 when it comes to forming. The second is when it is said -- an institution is being formed to carry out this action, for example, in Kosovo's territory, and it is projected only as a possibility here. So let's give it a chance. What are they going to have to do with the national councils with the huge financial problems they have? If it's going to depend on information in minority language, then fate is very uncertain. Now what? In this situation, I think it must be a stronger legal obligation to provide for the state media service of RTS, in the formation of minority language editorials. In that case, it is safer, safer not to compromise the necessary minimum guaranteed by the Constitution, law, international conventions. Only then could it be said that it will be more certain, what will be the programme, in which amount will be provided in minority language. Without these editorials for minority languages, information in these languages is, in my opinion, drastically threatened with the existing envisaged norms. I would continue on these members of the Public Service Act, you have a Article 9 in point 1 of the said public media service is required to use Serbian language, Cyrillic letter and sign language in the programmes as a form of communication of deaf and deaf people. There is no mention of information in the language of national minorities. It is only in attitude 2 that indirectly mention programmes intended for minority members, whether they will be titled or not in Serbian. But that is indirect, and there is no direct obligation in Article 9 that public service will also use the language of national minorities. Then, in Article 8 of the same law you have, in my opinion, an unacceptable formula once again where respect for language and speech standards in minority language is limited to space and is limited to an appropriate proportion. Now I'm asking whether language standards, speech standards as quality, can they be spatially limited or in any way limited? Or there's a standard there's no standard. The second question is – where and to what extent will these programs be organised in minority language? Standards, speech standards, they must be followed in the programmes until the end, whether they are in Serbian or minority languages. So, I think that through the amendments that we have submitted as the SDA PD Group, our final position on these laws will depend on it, and we will more specifically explain in the discussion, in detail, the opportunities for the proposed formulations, the proposed provisions of these laws to try, of course, with the consent of the Government, to improve these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5910	Thank you. Prime Minister Ivan Tasovac spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5911	Let me explain. So, on the remark that RTS is not visible in Presevo, this law is currently predicting that by 2016 public service funding is going out of the budget, so that Serbian citizens will not pay a fee until 1 January 2016. Since the deadline for digitisation is in June 2015, the RTS will surely be visible, so that the citizens of Presevo as citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be able to pay the tax. When you talk about the fact that this law has only been for five years, meaning not changing the programming scheme, I wouldn't use the word alone, I would say even five years, and I think it's something that represents exactly one significant sign to which this government of Serbia cares about informing in the languages of all minorities. Let me explain to you about the specific information in Presevo. The Presevo municipality will also be able to call a co-financing contest in Albanian, so the law has just provided for all opportunities for national minorities to have such information as European standards. Also, if we talk about the possibility of unsuccessful privatisation, in fact here in the law it is envisaged that if privatisation fails, the action will be divided into journalists. Offered, in case they don't accept them, that medium will be deleted from the media register. I repeat again, of the 1230 media, or texts that are registered to APER, we're talking about 81 here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5912	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Chapo, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5913	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The honourable ministers, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina's parliamentary group, had several procedural objections at first. There are two objections, which is the passing of laws by emergency procedure and, of course, the adoption of laws without public debate. If we say that laws are being passed again by an urgent procedure, which of course you have the procedural right, you know that we have very little time to prepare ourselves in the right way and to help you in a constructive way and constructive proposals to improve existing legal solutions. Nevertheless, the Social Democratic League's parliamentary group, Vojvodina, has submitted nearly 30 amendments to legal solutions. I hope you'll take some of them seriously and accept them. If we say that laws are passed without public debate, we say that for this final version of the law, media experts, civil sector, trade unions, journalists and professional associations are not consulted. I think this is a very sensitive issue, because we know that these laws regulate many important issues from privatisation, the media, the protection of the public's public interest in informing media freedoms, international standards in this area, etc. Of course, I welcome the will and efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to try to solve quite a lot of accumulated and complex problems in this area. It is good that the proposed laws are in the co-ordinates of the 2011 media strategy, and what the minister said will also be progressing towards the practice that exists in EU countries, ensuring transparency of the ownership structure, defining public interest and protecting media pluralism. What we, as legislators of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina, resent and what our ambiguities are, is that the Government's Bill on Public Media Services, as one of the most important measures, has abolished the subscription of at least 16 months, so both RTS and RTV will be financed directly from the budget, which is also mentioned in the previous presentation. We believe that there is no speech on the declared independence of public media services, given that nowhere, not even in the transitional and final provisions, even in the light of the law, there are no indications of how much funds are provided for RTS and RTS until the time when the tax is introduced. It is 01.01.2016. This also brings RTS and RTS into the long line of public enterprises awaiting adoption of the 2015 budget. However, the issue is raised because the proposal does not show how both RTS and RTS will end the financial year following the legal suspension of the subscription, which is eight days after the publication in the "Official Messenger". Article 62(3) merely mentions the Government Regulation which regulates the way funds are transferred and the control of the use of funds, but not the amount or at least the way the Government thinks to determine them. For the sake of citizens, I would like to remind you that public media services are the cleanest product of civil society, at least in Europe, and I think that the intensities and governments are quite the way things are solved, that public media services, public service for citizens, are financed by citizens and, of course, are primarily controlled by citizens rather than by the Government. Contrary to public service, it is certainly a state-run radio television of a public enterprise, where media content is created by officials, not by creators. When it comes to the Law on Public Media Service, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, I don't think one thing is regulated enough. It's very important to us, which is to provide funds for the reconstruction of the facilities and equipment of the tv. I'll remind you that in 1999, during the bombing, TV ran out of 100%, I'll repeat, 100% production study capacity. Three television studios, directing, installation, dedicated and equipped space for television production of informational, entertainment, playful, children's programme for two TV channels have been completely destroyed at the site of Micheluk. Since that time in 1999, for 15 years, Vojvodina TV has been working in inadequately rented space that it cannot, because, of course, it is rented, to adapt and bring to the specific purpose that is important for the needs of television production and to suit the needs of the modern viewer. I'll just tell you that for the last 15 years, more than 5.5m euros have been spent to rent that inadequate space. I think bringing in some location's intention would solve the spatial needs of its development, at least for the next 15 years. This would, of course, create conditions for the introduction of modern production technology, achieving the necessary technological standard and reducing the number of employees. We have done some calculations that 15m euros are needed for the construction of a television home with studios and a accompanying space, and for its equipment according to the latest technological principles, 15m euros. We think that in this way the Vojvodina Radio Television, after 15 years, could catch up with the Republic Public Media Service. I would like to remind you that during the 1970s and 1980s, entirely from my own resources, actually the funds of the Vojvodina citizens collected through a television subscription, without the support of the budget or any other external financial resources, a total of more than six hectares of construction, infrastructure and technologically equipped over 22,000 square meters. We have put all this into one amendment to the parliamentary group and we think the proposed solution will avoid citizens and citizens of Vojvodina once again from the subscription or fees paying for what they have already built. Among defined public interests is information in the languages of national minorities. I certainly commend that the legislator recognized that as a value, anyway. However, for a long time new research has recorded the high ethnic distance of Vojvodina as well as ghettoisation, I can freely say only the ghettoisation of minority communities. Media closed in their midst and in their language contribute to the creation of an ethnic distance. In such defined public interests in Article 15, it is possible to read that the state of Serbia is defined for the ghettoisation of minority communities, i.e. to encourage national communities in Serbia, especially in Vojvodina, to live with each other but next to each other. The modern European values that we so call upon are based on co-existence and, of course, on the intertwination of culture and language, so-called. Interculturality. The state of Serbia must recognise public interest in interethnic communication and interculturality, especially when it comes to information, so as not to have certain and serious political and social turbulence. A provision on interethnic communication can enable the survival and development of media that have content in several languages, which are very important for Vojvodina. They can be threatened by media reform if they are not recognised as specific. We also proposed with one amendment to the government that this matter be regulated. As far as pluralism is concerned, we believe that it is crucial for the democratisation of society, precisely because of our long non-democratic tradition. Media that are founders of national councils of national minorities are exempt from the privatisation process and will be a public service to the Janin communities. The fact is, however, that there is no part in the bill that will allow for the independence of the editorial policies of these media, but they can only be advertising tables of minority elites. So we don't think this law guarantees in these provisions the freedom of the media of expression in the languages of national minorities. This issue is very important because in recent times we have had several examples of drastic violations of media freedoms in minority languages. As far as local media is concerned, which, in our opinion, is a very important topic, we think it is necessary in the law to install guarantees that will ensure that the state at all levels, especially local self-government, allocate significant funds for media content, i.e. that the funds invested in the media sector through the financing of media and media content of the subsidisation of public enterprises and information institutions will continue to identify certain means of information, but now through competitive-project financing of media content, in line with public interest. The state must be a guarantee of public interest in the media sphere and, of course, in the local environments themselves. Otherwise, this law can have the opposite effect of expected, or it can instead advance the media scene, contribute to the shutting down of a large number of media and the dismissal of journalists, primarily in local self-government. We think that in this case the law will favour large central media from regional and local, which is not acceptable and leads to further decentralisation of the country. We in Vojvodina would really love it, and I as a citizen of Zrenjanin, if I could watch on TV except for "Belgrade chronicles" and a grain chronicle, to see the Saturday chronicle, the chronicle of the town of Kruševac, Kraljev or any other city. It is necessary to define that only those legal persons who have been involved in information work for at least three years, as well as legal persons who have been founders of natural and legal persons for more than five years, should participate in the privatisation of the media. Why do we think that? It is that the past privatisation of the media in Serbia was unsuccessful because the media bought companies and individuals who had completely different purposes, not the survival and development of the media. They wanted to get to real estate and stuff. Very often, they were completely unprofessional people. As a result, many privatisations have failed. We have tried through the amendments to correct this poor part of the legal solutions and I hope you will accept them. As regards the Law on Electronic Media, when it comes to members of the Board of Regulators, we have submitted an amendment which, when the debate is in particular, will explain in more detail and explain, but I think we need to change the way we choose and allow the widest possible participation of the expert public in the work of the Council, especially the civil sector, which would allow for further professionalisation and independence of the work of the Council, in line with the so-called European values that are already, in different ways, commendable, apostrophe in the bill. It also allows media representatives, owners and journalists' representatives, and, above all, journalists' associations, to have representatives on the board of regulators, which will, of course, contribute to democratisation through the representation of all stakeholders in this light, and thus raise the level of media freedoms. A few more things are important to us in the League of Social Democrats of the Vojvodina, and that is to insert in many members a part related to the competent authorities of the AP Vojvodina. I'll just say why. Because in Articles 62 and 63. The Law laying down the powers of the AP Vojvodina is clearly defined by public information at the provincial level and provides that the AP Vojvodina, through its authorities, in the field of public information in accordance with the law, adopts a development strategy in the field of public information in the territory of the APVovodina, of course, in accordance with the Republic's strategy in the field of public information. That's why we think we should include the competent authorities of the AP Vojvodina who will co-operate with the regulator. I'm just going to mention one more thing, which is pretty important to me, which is that in the last five years, more than 300 journalists are verbally, which is physically attacked. I think this law should be much better regulated. As for the Social Democrats League parliamentary group of Vojvodina, depending on the fate of our amendments, I hope that the government will take a pretty good look at them because they were done in the best of intentions and we think they are constructive and that they will improve all legal solutions, but depending on that, we will define ourselves on the day of the vote as we vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5914	I thank you, Mr. Chapo. The word has a minister in the government, Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5915	I thank you for your discussion, but it seems to me that you probably did a lapus when you said these laws didn't have a public hearing. These laws just went completely through all the public debates, so that's something that just doesn't stand. On the other hand, when you talk about Vojvodina Radio-Television, this very government recognized the importance of Vojvodina Radio-Television and especially their programmes in minority languages and very clearly and transparently defined and now at this point the state aid received by both public services, which is a total of 7.5 billion and divided in percentages of 77.5 to 22.5. What you're saying about next year can't stand because it will only be defined when the budget is adopted. Just one more thing. Since you mentioned the damage sustained by the Vojvodina Radio Television during the bombing, we are absolutely all aware of how different our media systems are and not only have suffered damage during the bombing. Simply, to predict this by law and as far as RTV and RTS are concerned, it seems a little bit like a reference to the number of regional public services compared to Austria, Germany and Sweden. I believe that the moment we reach the gross social income that these countries have, we will probably be able to access the amendments and additions of these laws. The important thing is that these laws are real and that it is possible to apply them from the moment they enter into force, if the Assembly adopts them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5916	I thank Minister Tasovac. There's a word for Dejan Chapo, but tell me on what grounds? (Dejan Chapo, from the scene: I just want to answer. I don't think you have a chance to get a replica, but please be brief. Here you go. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5917	Just for a little while, about tv and the funds that need to be provided for the building and all the necessary equipment to keep the television working normally. If some things are not resolved, clearly by law, that space will be left, but it has already been 15 years, we have done nothing that can really be strained in some way and the situation that we have to inform all the citizens of Vojvodina in 10 different languages, it really imposes on us as a need to have an adequate space and in the right way to solve this issue. I hope, unless this law is regulated, that you from the Ministry will make a proposal to at least define the time and way to solve this problem. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5918	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5919	Just recognising the importance and public service, i.e. TV, the Serbian government and the law define their stable funding. It's, I mean, already what's a very big shift compared to the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5920	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by the president of the parliamentary group, MP Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5921	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for us in SVM, this day is of special importance. It's of particular importance because we've been working very hard on these topics for the last 10 years. We fought a battle for 10 years for the survival of regional and local public services. In addition, we fought the battle and for the respect of the rule of law because we have advocated all this time for the possibility of national councils of national minorities, to be the founders of the media. Under our Constitution, the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced, and according to Article 79. The constitution of members of national minorities shall have the right, inter alia, to establish their own means of public notification. That's why I said we fought a battle for the rule of law and even for the rule of law. We've been practically lonely in that fight for the past 10 years. We had allies in the Party for Democratic Action and in the political organisation of the SDA Sandzak. On the other hand, we had parties coming to power, we had ministers, government members all these years who have advocated violent privatization of the media or if you prefer a privatisation term at all costs of regional and local public services. We had experts or experts, if you prefer that term, who claimed that minority media were founded by national councils of national minorities, on the one hand and the media whose founders are local self-government, on the other hand the greatest threat to free journalism and media independence. We have been explaining tirelessly all these years that the Constitution is on our side, that certain laws are on our side, that there is no unique European practice that could be imposed on the Republic of Serbia and that would mean that all media must at all costs be privatised because there are several Member States and the EU, and the OSCE, and the Council of Europe, which countries today have their own regional or local public services, whose founders are local self-governments. Such media still exists today in Romania, Slovakia, Hungary, I only mention countries from our region. However, a media strategy was adopted in 2011. At the time, they were not in power of the parties that are in power today, or most of these parties were not in power. The 2011 media strategy predicted that national councils of national minorities cannot be the founders of the media and that all media whose founders of local self-government must be privatised. At that time, we were part of the ruling majority and we advocated the amendment of this draft media strategy in June 2011, and we were partly successful because in the final version of the media strategy, which was adopted on 28 September 2011, the right for national councils of the national minorities to be founders of the media, but unfortunately kept the concept of privatisation at all costs of those media, electronic media, whose founders of local self-government, regardless of the laws in force, for example, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the City of Belgrade provided for the existence of electronic media, whose founders of local self-government, which broadcast the programme and the languages of national minorities. We have explained all these years that this concept is not good and that it should be predicted when it is already going to privatise a serious guarantee for the survival of these media. Both our struggle to survive local and regional public services whose founders are local self-government ends not now, not today. This struggle ended, unfortunately not gloriously, or if you want to defeat, on 21 February 2014 when the Serbian Constitutional Court stated in its decision that since the current Law on Public Enterprises, unlike the previously applicable law, the activity of public information is not intended as an act of general interest, the founder of a public enterprise cannot be either the Republic of Serbia or an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government in this action. Thus, it is practically legal to watch this struggle for the survival of regional and local public services lost, that is, on 21 February 2014 by publishing in the Official Messenger of the Constitutional Court Decision. We have foreseen in our election programme, which is part of a coalition agreement signed with the Serbian Progressive Party, that a new set of media laws will ensure the preservation of the current level of information in the Hungarian language, the model of privatisation of local electronic media that broadcast programmes in the languages of national minorities and the way they finance them after privatisation will ensure the preservation of the bankruptcy rights of national minorities in the field of public information. Since the draft laws we are discussing today meet these criteria, we will vote in favour of the proposed set of media laws. I don't think it's any secret that we're from July 23rd this year, i.e. In the past five or six days, they have held day and night talks with representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Public Information so that these bill proposals will be acceptable to us and to be better and to match the citizens of Serbia. Four elements were important to us, primarily the Public Information Act and the media. We have advocated the possibility that media founders continue to be in line with the many elements of our legal system, national councils and national minorities and that national councils can not only establish institutions or foundations, but also companies. That's the goal we've achieved. Since that possibility was not foreseen by the draft law, but it is foreseen as a result of our consultations and our conversation with the bill. On the other hand, the issue of the normative and continuing normative financing of those media, whose founders are national councils of national minorities, since this is the right, given the fact that the founding rights of institutions or companies issuing “Madjarso”, “Het nap”, “Libertate” “Hlas Ludo” “Croatian Word”, etc., have been transferred to the national councils of national minorities, but the AP Vojvodina continues to be obliged to finance on the normative basis of these enterprises, these institutions, or in the extreme case of the release of these printed media. This possibility was not foreseen by the draft law, but it is foreseen by the bill and we are grateful to the representatives of the Ministry of Openness and for the very good and successful talks we have had in the previous days. On the third hand, I said that we have been among the few parties of all these years who have advocated the survival of regional, local and public services, and we have advocated the possibility of municipalities and cities being the founders of these media, but that this was no longer possible after the Constitutional Court's decision came into force, no matter what we think of the court's decision, this must be respected. That is why in these talks we could not advocate survival in this way of regional public services, which we believe are necessary and that Serbian citizens deserve to be fully informed in relation to some regional or local news, or local, or regional importance. While that is the case, because of the Constitutional Court's decision, we have advocated the installation of very serious guarantees for the survival of the character of public service in these media and after their privatisation that must take place within the next year. On our proposal the guarantee entered into the text regarding continuity in the production of media content. For five years these media, not only must they preserve the work that some of them have for the last 40 years, but the continuity in the production of media content means and the obligation to maintain the share of programming time in certain languages of national minorities, i.e. the share of informative, educational, scientific, cultural and artistic, children's, entertainment, sports and other software content of public interest in certain languages of national minorities, in line with the 12-month programming scheme, which preceded the adoption of this law. Why does this matter? This is important because citizens would be in a position to inform their mother tongue in the coming years, as did the previous decades. Unfortunately, we have very, very bad experience in privatising the media in Serbia. We have only one good example, one bright spot in the sea of privatisation, unsuccessful privatization of the media, it is Radio Srbobran, which preserved the program in all languages in which it broadcast the programme before 2007, when it was privatized, but on the other hand we must not forget the once existing radio stations that broadcast the program in multiple languages such as Radio Tower or Radio Sombor, and we know what happened unfortunately in the case of privatization of these media. This possibility and these guarantees that we have encountered openness and Minister Tasovec and his associates at the Ministry of Culture and Public Information will ensure the survival of these media as a public service. I think that all speculators will be discouraged to buy these media because of the building, because of property, or from various other initiatives, and unless a customer is found who would buy under these conditions of the media, and I think very often this will be the case, then the actions will be transferred to employees without compensation and this will mean the survival of these media and the survival and character of these media in the future. For these exceptional reasons, because of these very important guarantees and various provisions that entered the Law on our proposal, we will vote in favour of the proposal for a law on public information, and in the same way our objections regarding the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Public Media Services have been accepted. The responsibilities of national councils of national minorities are respected in most cases related to the Law on Electronic Media where a new possibility will be introduced for national councils to be mandated by members of the Board of Regulators, which is important for information in the languages of national minorities. It is very important that the proposal for a law on electronic media is provided for in the audiovisual media service of the civil sector, that they are provided to satisfy specific interests of certain social groups, including national minorities. In this case, the media service provider will be able to be a departmental department of churches within a local, regional coverage zone and these permits will be issued without obligation to pay compensation. I think that's extremely important, and as far as the Law on Public Media Services is concerned, it's very important that we finally have two equal public services with legal status, that's RTS and RTS. The funds used by the public media service are owned by the AP Vojvodina in the case of RTV, of course. The level of tax will be determined by common decision by the boards of directors of RTS and RTS, which is equally significant. What is most important, the funds collected on the basis of the fee will be paid under the RTS and RTS under account opened to the Treasury Administration, and I hope that at a time when there is no knowledge of what is and what is behind us, and that in a transparent way, the work of public media services will be financed and that citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina will be better, more diverse because of the means to which it should be available and under the current law, and that this has not always been the case since it was not known in Novi Sad how much has been paid and how many RTS or someone else is proving to the Republic, i.e., I apologize to the public service. We have submitted only one amendment to the proposal for a law on public information and media, and we have agreed on this amendment. It is the competence of the National Minority Councils relating to obtaining the Council's opinion on candidates for the responsible editor of the programme in the language of the national minority in the case of public service. This is one jurisdiction provided for by the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. And finally, to conclude, we will support these proposals and we are satisfied that although we have failed for objective reasons to defuse this privatization of the media at all costs, we have managed to preserve the founding rights and national councils, but on the other hand...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5922	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5923	... I end, thank you, let's make it possible for regional and local public services to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5924	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5925	Thank you. The President-in-Office, distinguished representatives of the government, fellow MPs, I think that the legislator of this law, therefore, the Government and we party members who will support this bill can be extremely pleased during this discussion. For those who follow home, and for those of us who are a little more guided into this matter, because we deal with this in detail, there were no significant objections. Something that would be huge, which would change the essence of the law, which would cause major protests among the rest of the authorities in this great House. These were really minimal objections somewhere in technical terms, somewhere shades in the application of a certain member of the law, but what really is one line that is observed during this discussion is that the law is really good, that the bill and that they confirm that the bill is really good from the international public, from the international community, from the European Commission, from experts, from professional media associations that supported this bill that we all worked on together and not for the previous months, but years, it really confirms that this time, there is an excellent bill governing a very difficult and complicated area of media law. It's an area of law that in any country in the world is very difficult and complicated to regulate, because freedom of the media is something that you can't pack in either four walls or in a particular box, but very difficult and in, well, now let's say, and in these three hundred members of a law, because that's the essence of regulation somewhere, to try to give some frames where the freedom of the media will move, because we have to at least define it. We won't limit it, because it's impossible to limit freedom of public words, or freedom of information in a democratic society, and that's not anyone's intention, and that's what you're great at seeing throughout the discussion. The colleagues who objected to this bill stand their grudges, and certainly through the amendments we will discuss what it is that we can do, some of the objections stand there. I have to say, without citizens and the public getting me wrong, if the biggest cause of this bill is the abolition of the subscription and the introduction of the tax, then we're on a great path. This one is a member of the law, one of the three hundred members of the bill may be something we can talk about. I'm saying I don't want someone to get me wrong, I'm making a personal point, but I'm very happy as a journalist and as someone who's been in the media for 20 years and someone who's made a few local media and I know how hard it is to live and work, how hard it was to get through the needle ears of media law, then political boasting, then political persecution. For the last eight years, I've been involved in politics, and before that, I've been mostly in the local media and mostly the information program, and I know what kind of persecution was both editors and journalists who wanted to think differently. The moment I entered politics, I was in the information service of the party. I really felt that moment, if maybe as a journalist and I was protected in that newsroom, maybe somewhere the editor or director of the media and tried to protect me, the moment I tried to find a media space for the party, then the newly founded party in 2008, it was Jesus' torment. Absolutely after a short time, we decided to keep records in the SNS, and there was evidence of how long SNS or Tomislav Nikolic, or Alexander Vukic, any other official or this new SNS party was given, as it strengthened. As our actions and moves grew stronger, the more pressures were that we were nowhere to be found. What I'm talking about and we can document, but it's enough to look at the archives and Studies B and RTS at that time in the period 2008 to 2012. That's the period in which we measured the minute. In Study B, we really looked at the program for days, there was nothing to hear about action, about the party's action that was growing at great speed, getting a large number of members, a great popularity had, someone really wanted it to be heard and not seen, but it just came back to boomerang, to those who were trying to shut down that popularity and to keep the public uninformed about it. The party's strength went up at high speed and produced a result that it did in 2012. I'm saying that this can be confirmed, I'm saying that I'm a witness to all of this as well as people in SNS, and that's why it really hurts people first of all when someone's talking about censorship today. When someone is talking about not having enough space or giving it space, it is given to them in a certain way. When someone talks about censorship every day so loudly through both the mouth and the ether of a large number of media, it's hard for these censorships to really exist. When colleagues spoke about how certain politicians were put on the front page, how tarnished their reputations were I have not heard that the country's President Tomislav Nikolic was mentioned, which is not to be talked about how he is treated by the media, how certain media have the headings, the permanent pages dealing with the humiliation of Serbia's president in one way or one way or his associates, and not to talk about Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, who is indeed the most offensive person in Serbian media. So I'm among the representatives of the former regime, I would really skip this debate on media laws, because I think the criticism of this bill on their part can be called their dictionary used in disgrace. Look into the eyes of the press, the editors you played with before 2012. Was there an editor, a media director, downloaded in 2012? Has the press composition changed? Many have resented the leaders of the Serbian Progressive Party, which is why they do not change these people and that has not happened. Let's take a realistic look at the facts and talk about whether or not there's censorship, whether or not there's media pressure. How individual private media owners edit their software content, use their national frequency, talk about it, talk about the bill in a good way, edits the very area. I, like Minister Tasovac, will look back on the phrase "a shameful way of emergency procedure". It's embarrassing what's beneath every morale, something we're ashamed of, something we should hide. If you really think that at this moment, where we grab high speed forwards to move negotiations with the EU, to close as many negotiations as possible, and first to open them up and do screenings, in that period when citizens are really burning under their feet when we're going to join the EU, when they're going to move away from negotiations, when we're going to get some of the funds from pre-accession funds, when we're going to enter a society where European standards really apply, in that period some of our colleagues suggest we work a little slower. I don't know if that means we should have locked up the assembly, gone to sea? Maybe it's not bad to tell the citizens - it's an emergency procedure, let's pack up, go to sea. Tell that to the citizens - I'm going to the sea, I'm going on vacation, I'm going shopping, then I'm going to talk about closing negotiations and everything. They laughed when Prime Minister Vukic said it took a lot more time to spend here. As you can see, it has become our reality. I don't see any of you mind. I don't see that anyone's bored to the point where he looks bad, that he's dehydrated, and that he can't discuss these laws. I think we should really commit ourselves absolutely to all the laws that are so far, and especially at this session, on the agenda and try to make maximum new solutions how to improve these bill proposals. What I could hear about an hour ago, so it's not exactly the latest information, is that we have about 150 amendments to the privatisation and bankruptcy laws and about 200 and some amendments to media laws. I don't know, I really didn't see what all the amendments look like, maybe they, like I said, are technical, making some shades in certain amendments to the law, maybe there's some really good proposals, but there's so many amendments, such a serious discussion, two years of public debate, the involvement of media that absolutely follow what's going on and what's being prepared in the legal sphere, says there's been plenty of time to prepare ourselves here. In the end, I think the politicians who have been dealing seriously with these media laws have been holding this in a small finger for the last ten years. The citizens at this point can't hear the laughter and the story in the DS benches, because they're only interested in this debate and this plenary hall as a place to make insults, not for the correction of the law -- this is an opportunity not to criticise so many laws, because I have to offer a solution, but it's a good opportunity to say something against SNS, because this constant confusion of citizens that something isn't good enough, I don't know how, but I know it's not good enough because it proposes SNS. This policy cannot work, especially in Serbia, which is extremely politically conscious and written and where no more manipulations are allowed. I'd like to talk about the details of these laws. As I mentioned earlier, a large number of amendments to both the privatisation law and the bankruptcy law, including these three laws. So these five laws that are on the agenda are the best indicator of what the reform potential of this government is, in fact, led by Prime Minister Vukic. These moves, which are not popular at all and which naturally do not come across great approval and the joy of the citizens, are necessary. I'm glad the citizens accept that. In daily contact with voters, and across Serbia I travel, I see that they understand that this is something that we have to do and we don't have to give up. I'm going to quote once again, and Minister Tasovec, not because I don't have enough words, but I think that's one concise message from the essence of these media laws. Minister Tasovac said this set of media laws will edit the media scene in Serbia in the most transparent way so far, bringing it closer to European practices. This is one of our priorities, harmonising Serbia with European legislation and in this area, but it will certainly provide a framework for far more quality information for citizens. Once again, I will repeat to all those who are critics of these government reform moves, that everything that has been incorporated into these media laws has been done in agreement with the European Commission, all in harmony. There's absolutely no problem. Different professional, journalistic and media associations, representatives of the civil sector, and the suggestions of international experts from this area participated, and this bill has been exposed to public assessment and criticism of the public, as I have said, for more than two years. The withdrawal of the state from ownership in the media, July 2015, is the last deadline for privatising the media. In particular, in Serbia it is 81 media. It is only 6% to 7% of the 1,320 media, as many as there are in Serbia registered in the Business Registers Agency. The media's own structure, it's very important. Thanks to the new legal solutions, it will become completely transparent, because when citizens, i.e. the consumers of the media's services, really know who owns the media, it will be much clearer to them, which is why some information is packaged and placed exactly that way. The Public Information Act predicted that programming structures and content must be maintained within a period of five years after privatisation. It was very important because of the poor privatization of the media, where very many regional local televisions have been shut down, because someone has played with both the programming structure and the people who work there and the interests of citizens in those local communities, who wanted to hear what was going on in their city. This is particularly important when it comes to media reporting in the languages of national minorities. I would not agree with colleagues, who are from parties representing national minorities, if they had not had enough freedom so far, to be informed in their own language. I know and I support this rule that once acquired law should not be reduced, but should be promoted, to a higher degree of those rights. That's what it stands for. I support this, somewhere we need to be realistic and try to fit into European legislation and in all possible ways to inform people, in the environments they live in, in order to be informed in the language of national minorities. This Law on Public Services will abolish the current TV subscription. Over the next year and a half, public services RTS and RTV will be financed from the budget with full transparency. The word "full transparency" should be highlighted. So by January 2016, the state will finance the work of both media, to ensure their stability, and since 2016, this is also an important definition, the tax will be the only way to finance public services. This is a big difference from funding through subscription, because as we could hear, the subscription involves some kind of volunteering, not how opposition MPs understood it, so they play with the citizens and confuse them again. In some daily papers, we see how we quote the name and last name, for years, the town where the citizen came from who was crying spent yesterday afternoon, because she realized that the state was playing with her. Please, such suggestive texts, where we play with the dignity of our citizens, are not some level where we need to function. The part of the proposal, which defines the necessary funds for their implementation, states that 536m dinars for the work of public enterprises Tanjug, Pandora and Radio Yugoslavia by July 2015. One of the objectives of these laws is to define a transparent system of funding in the field of public information from budgets from different levels of public authorities, through a system of project financing of media and other entities in the area, of course, establishing control of the spending of the funds received. Since I had also been in contact with this project financing of media, media projects of various independent productions of our local televisions, in conversations with them and in working with them, I saw that they were extremely suited to the start of the competition. Offer a good product, offer good software content, work with educated, dedicated people in the newsroom and will not be a problem financing the proposal, the project. Don't forget, we keep calling for reality. Many media, small local media, work from living rooms, from their kitchens. There's a level of standard we need to raise. I don't want any media to be shut down in Serbia, but I think we need to set some standards and this project funding will help a lot. We talked about the means for individual donations, i.e. the means to be obtained by calling public competitions, but also by individual grants based on the application of the principle of non-discrimination and the rules on granting state aid and protecting competition. The funds intended for individual donations are limited to 5% of the total funds identified for public interest in the field of public information and through public competitions. The amount of individual giving cannot exceed 20% of the amount prescribed for small-value public procurement, and the competent ministry shall adopt sublegal acts that are closer to the arrangements, conditions and criteria for the allocation. This figure, as well as how much money should be allocated from the budget of local self-government, autonomous province, should be discussed anyway, but this is the starting point, because everyone who has worked with local media, who is in contact with local self-government, knows in which way the money was distributed to the media at the bar, whether it's the president of the municipality whose television, who was followed by someone, and then shut down for everyone else, so it's being arranged who's going to transfer the local self-government, or the session of the local assembly, and then we're playing, because that's where we hire various friends in our offices...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5926	You used 20 minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5927	I'll be done soon. Can I use group time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5928	It's been 20 minutes. You can't use Parliament time now, you can use the afternoon part. I'm setting a break by 2:45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Since authorised representatives have exhausted their time, we are moving on to the list of registered speakers. The first is on the list of MPs of the people, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5930	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, in the first place as regards a set of media laws, I must commend first of all the efforts of the promoter, the Ministry of Culture, since it is a whole new law, at least when it comes to the Law on Public Information and Media. So it wasn't going after those popular changes and additions. As far as the other two laws are concerned, they fully edit a matter that has not been regulated legally so far. Of course, in this sense, it can be talked about reform laws, unlike those laws where changes and additions are passed and where these amendments and additions do not contribute to amending the text of the basic law as a percentage of 50%, in which case they can never qualify as reform laws. In principle, my colleague Mirko Chikiriz, as an authorised representative, expressed the position of the SPO DHSS parliamentary group as regards support for these media laws, and the law on public information and the media itself, of course, was made clear that it came from those defined objectives, which were, above all, presented in the media strategy, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted in 2011. The action plan, followed by the media strategy, envisions the adoption of laws that we are discussing today and when any of the proposed ones, says we have finished our work, is in the sense that you have referred the laws to the assembly procedure, which is being discussed, but I would add that you have not finished them, but that your work is just beginning with this. I hope so, and I expect to continue the work and your ministry as well as everyone else on this matter. Since your work is just beginning, as I said, you can be sure of it, because there is "ex nunk" and "ex tank". It is easy to pass the law, but it is difficult to monitor its effects in practice and, of course, analyze its application when the time comes for such a thing, because without the practical application of these laws they will unfortunately become just a dead letter on paper. Since I am rather limited in time, I will firstly devote my attention to the proposal for a law on electronic media. In that sense, I will make some constructive suggestions, and I suppose my colleagues have already done so through the amendment. I've looked at some of these amendments, and I can safely say they're extremely good. According to Article 74 of the Electronic Media Act, which regulates the provision of media services with the obtaining of approval, i.e. under Article 1(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the media service provider of a media service which re-transmissions the programme on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the provisions of the European Convention on Transboundary Television. Since here, as in the whole of the law, it is a re-emission term, I think it would be good to be in Article 4 where the subject of this Article is the meaning of certain terms, to just insert the re-emission term, and its definition is not difficult to give, since the definition of re-emission already exists in the Convention that our country has adopted. As for the Law on Electronic Media, I have other suggestions, as well as some of my colleagues, I have already mentioned the good amendments of some colleagues from the parliamentary groups and we will discuss this in the discussion of details. What I also have to say from this place is that someone can honor and say that's what most people are saying here today, but the fact is that DHSS was still the first initiator and the loudest advocate of abolishing the TV subscription. Such a thing has been met with citizens' support and over 200,000 signatures have been handed over to this Assembly, and later the support of citizens is increasing. So, as far as DHSS is concerned, of course, we don't know why we're going to cancel a TV that is now 500 dinars, so that in 2016 a tax is introduced. It's not a subscription, but it's a tax, and it's in the same amount. Since we were witnesses that some different solutions were proposed not so soon, it was done a year, a year and a half ago, when media public services were projected to be financed from the budget, that the TV subscription was completely abolished. The reason is very clear, let's say what if I don't follow RTS at all and I don't follow the media service or the programs they broadcast, why would I be obliged to pay a tax of 500 dinars? Is that just because I'm bound by this member of the law and Article 38 because I'm a beneficiary of the electricity measure per housing unit? I think that, in that sense, in 2016, when it starts with charging a fee, that citizens will again encounter quite dissatisfaction and I think you have it in mind and when it is debated according to the amendments, since there are amendments that are now going to go towards eradicating such a proposal, of course, because we don't consider it celery, and Serbia's resistance will certainly be met, of course. What the SPO-DHSS parliamentary group has already put forward, which is that of course we will support such media laws, because I have already said that the proposaler's intention is, above all, more than good, and everything that has already been counted in these laws is provided. Of course, I'm not going to read any arguments, nor are the reasons for their adoption. My principle remarks refer to the tax already mentioned, not to the abolition of the TV subscription, and I think that you will surely encounter the dissatisfaction of the citizens in 2016 when they are forced to pay something they pay today and what they pay for many years and that is it. Since I am running out of time here, I will remain here, and about the rest and in particular by the amendments of all my colleagues, as well as the MPs of my parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5931	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5932	When you pass reform laws, then it is clear that many of these measures cannot be popular. Simply, what the European practice has shown is that in terms of both the quality of information and the independence of the information tax is the best way and the best guarantee of the independence of public services. I have to say, the question is what if I don't watch RTS, and I have to pay a tax, or a TV, all of it, is that as a question of what if I don't get sick, and I have health insurance. Simply, public services represent a very important lever of democratic life. So this was the only possible solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5933	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5934	I know that mentioning the public debate with many ministers causes the appearance of their hair being lifted on their heads, but of course I don't mean the minister present here today. I'd like to say a few words about that, since it was a dominant topic. You can't call a public debate something that was a public debate before you passed a final bill that goes towards MPs. It can first be called consultations, either way, and when the government adopts the text then it is released into public debate, to know what the public debate is about. It doesn't have to last long, it can last seven days, it can last 14 days. For this topic, seven days is quite enough. It's one remark, but it's not a fundamental remark. It's not a good habit and it's not a good habit for the government to scare the opposition and the public and the citizens with fast bill proposals, but there's a solution and we found it from the New Party. What's more important is that the issue of public information is always problematic, that it's a question that's never been resolved, nor in the most democratic countries, that there's always a great struggle to achieve the right to information and freedom from the journalistic side, and enough information from the citizens, so that this set of laws gives a solid basis for the start of that fight. We've given 20 amendments that are here to fix these bill proposals, but the biggest responsibility is whether the media will be free and whether citizens will have full information is in power and on journalists. Freedom in this case, as in all other cases, is not won, but you fight for it. And when you fight and you fight, you have to keep it safe. The authorities should always think when they pass some laws that there will be no power forever, there will be opposition, and then maybe something that has packed up the opposition to come back as a boomerang. I think we have a lot of examples in our history. The latest example was this change of law in 2009 or 2010, when it was sharpened without any basis to the media, but the worst example in modern Serbian history of media harassment, citizens and the public was the 1999 Information Act, when the minister of information was Alexander Vucic. It's a dragon law that has caused many media to fail, to be financially destroyed. At the time of that law and the ministry, Slavko Curuvija was also killed, which has no direct connection whatsoever, but speaks of the atmosphere that was then created. What we have today as an option for another one, is that we have another censorship that is either like this, car or imposed, it's completely irrelevant. Anyone who deny it is telling the truth, we have an example of a journalist, Skor, who said his opinion about the government in the morning program, who knows who sees or doesn't see it, which is why he was kicked out of the position of editor of the weekly edition of a newspaper as a journalist in some sports newsroom. Finally, we have an increase in the tax, i.e. the tax to pay public services as a crown solution that is on the trail of European best experiences. Of course it would be good for us and in other areas to have those experiences, but we don't. It's possible that the media can be independent even if they don't have a subscription. The best example for this is the period from 2001 to 2004, then no subscription was paid for RTS, and that is certainly the time when all the media, including public service, were the most fierce critics of the government, and anyone who remembers little or who looks at history, will remember that it is true. Therefore, the tax on TV subscription is not a guarantee of independence. We have a judiciary as one activity that can be compared. The judiciary is independent, it is financed 100% from the budget, so there is no independent tax for the judiciary but is financed from the budget, and the judiciary must be independent. I want this to be the beginning of a fight for the right to free information. It does not exist in Serbia today, it is feasible through a long process in which, I repeat, the most important role has power and has journalists, and also has citizens who have to ask both authorities and journalists to get the right information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5935	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5936	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of 106 who says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. A shorttime speaker, we had a chance for everyone here to hear, talked about almost everything just not what's actually the point of the agenda. There were some former laws and some examples, even some killings and all kinds of nonsense. The gentleman of his earlier speaker acts like he's slept through the last 15 years, and then he wakes up and he's right here holding some moral sermons. Mr. Zivkovicu, the products of your government are censorship, media darkness, emergency, "Sablje" and similar things that we had the opportunity to endure and watch. Please, you're the last person who can hold moral sermons here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5937	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5938	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. - the dignity of the assembly, because when you're saying something you can't tell the truth, and that offends, of course, the whole parliament, especially by talking about some dark times. I would remind, at that light time, where Mr. Prime Minister was, we had an action called "Sabbe," where you came to refer to what you're going to write in the paper. If you wrote anything against it by chance, the media would have shut you down. It is therefore a shame that such things are presented and that this is how the public is deceived, especially now in a situation where a law is passed which is the highlight of democracy and which everyone has praised. If someone is advocating the period in which the media has been shut down and the journalists are also in, and I will remind myself of the murder of journalist Pantic, and how they were both liquidated and what was happening, they should really be ashamed, given that the "Sabbe" action is indeed the worst possible darkness in this part of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5939	For me, it was more of a replica, and I can accept it as one. After the injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5940	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, the esteemed guests, I consider the members of 103, 107, 109 to be injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The MPs, the two of them from the SNS who spoke before me, advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and according to your recognition, Mr. Chairman, one of them, Mr. Djukanovic, and I will show that the others did the same, did not explain that the injured Rules of Procedure had already replicated Mr. Zivkovic. I remind you that the first speaker from the Progressive Party to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure announced that Mr. Zivkovic was not talking about the agenda point. I noticed here, and I think you did, too, that a minister who certainly wanted to respond to everything Mr. Zivkovic was talking about came forward. The minister would certainly not have come to the floor if he had not assessed that there was a basis to respond to Mr Zivkovic as part of a joint principled search on three draft laws that arrived from the ministry run by Mr Tasovac. Your duty, Mr. Chairman, was to warn and warn both Members of Parliament who are violating the Rules of Procedure by making themselves known on the basis of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then, instead of explaining that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, they are replicating Mr. Zivkovic to what Mr. Zivkovic was saying about the content of the three draft laws that are on the agenda today. Please, gentlemen, it is very important that we discuss in this assembly that we respect certain rules, rights and procedures. If that's not done by the ruling group of MPs here, then it's a great danger to our democracy in our country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5941	Thank you. I realized that they had advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that they had violated the dignity of the congregation. The idea of a violation of the dignity of the congregation, each of us has a vision. In that sense, I let them explain it in their own way. Whether someone accepts it or not, that's another question now. Therefore, I personally believe that neither, nor in any other case, there has been any injury to the Rules of Procedure, but the matter now is that who seems to have said what someone has said. I ask you not to waste time, but to move to the essence of the debate on the current agenda. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. ) The first word has a minister. You have the right to replica. Please, I'm running this session. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Zivkovic has the right to reply.]] I don't understand why you're so nervous. So there's a minister's word first. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5942	Thank you, Chairman. What's this about? The public debate is being held before the draft law is sent to the Government, and this is as foreseen by the Government's Rules of Procedure. That's one thing. Another thing, as regards funding from the budget, it is applied to a very small number of European countries, and we have also done it now in this transitional period of a year and a half, which is enough time for public services to stabilise and have, let me say, one stable funding, so that they can fulfill everything that represents a public interest. The second model, it's a third-person subscription. He turned out to be a complete failure. We also have a tax and, in doing so, what seems to me is not precise enough here. So it's defined by this law that a tax cannot be greater than 500 dinars, which means it can be even smaller.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5943	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Babic, you want a replica of Zivkovic's exposure, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5944	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian history is unfortunately full of some dark, black spots. Dark spots when people's lives were lost. It's bad when we remind ourselves of these things and of these events, and one number of these events and these events remain unsolved. If there is a connection and connection between the Minister of Information and an ugly event, such as the beastly murder of Mr. Djuruvia, I can ask the same logic and ask a parallel to the murder, say, Mr. Gavrilovic, who was killed in the parking lot after meeting with Mr. Kostunica. Who was the Federal Home Secretary? I might as well ask a question about General Buha's masculine murder in the parking lot at night. Who was the interior minister, the federal interior minister? I can also ask one question that the whole country truly has regrets for, and that is, unfortunately, the beastly murder and prime minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And yet the same man was the interior minister, the federal interior minister. Where's the connection? Where's the responsibility? But the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is that after years of tampering, ignorance, there is a lack of desire to put an end to these things, processed people who have liquidated Mr. Curuvija. These people are now in custody and court proceedings and the charges have been filed. It's our relationship to such things that have happened in history.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5945	Mr. Zivkovic, on what grounds? (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) On whose replication? Please, guys, wait. Do you really think I don't know the Rules of Procedure? Tell me, whose exhibit do you want the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5946	First, let me warn you that I'm running out of time. Two, two are the basics. One is the use of objections to the Rules of Procedure as replicas of previous speakers, and finally and now to the presentation of Mr Babic, whom you have not asked whose presentation he gives the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5947	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, just to be clear, you do not have the right to replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You need to understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5948	But you said it was abused.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5949	Wait a minute, let me finish. Mr Babić, in my understanding, had the right to reply to you because you directly mentioned the 1999 law and named Mr. Vukic, the leader of their party. On that basis, I gave him the right. I don't see any reason why you have a replica, because in his replica he didn't mention you, he was talking about some events.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5950	What do you mean, it's not? He was talking about the federal minister, and the only living federal interior minister is me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5951	You have no right and I beg you to sit down. I think we have a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5952	Please, he asked direct questions and mentioned me... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5953	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5954	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, the esteemed guests, I believe that a member of 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for it is written in that article when a National MP or a National MP in this congregation has the right to reply. In his presentation here, Mr Babic commented on certain events at a time when Mr Zoran Zivkovic served as interior minister in the federal government. It was not necessary on the basis of Article 104, Mr. Chairman, for Mr. Babic to mention Mr. Zivkovic's name so that anyone who knows little about contemporary Serbian history would know that he was talking about Mr. Zivkovic and "Sablja". I believe that Mr. Zivkovic has the right to reply and that, the Honored Chairman, you will harm the Rules of Procedure yourself and that I will have to report again, on the basis of Article 103, now, unless you provide Mr. Zivkovic with the right to replication. Because, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 clearly has the right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5955	Thank you very much for your advice, but also, in this article 104, it says that I do not read it whole, that in the end, the exercise of the rights set out in Article 1 and 2 of this article is decided by the President, or by the chairman of the National Assembly. I've decided that he has no right, and I'm asking you to get it over with. Looks like you're really training my patience. Here you go. (Zoran Zivkovic: No, but you received from yesterday a twist of ears. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5956	Dear President, the honored guests, I must now advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, which states that the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly continues, not to read in my views. The President-in-Office, it is true that the chairman of the National Assembly must ultimately decide whether a national MP has the right to reply, but that decision must not be a reflection, the Honored Chairman, the will of any MP, vice-president or president of the National Assembly, but the chairman of the National Assembly must make such a decision on the basis of the contents of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Honorable Chairman, if you decide that Mr. Zivkovic does not now have the right to replication in the obvious case, it will be one of the examples, but not the only, terrible will to lead this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5957	I'm taking that risk of self-will in this case. Remember, Mr. Zivkovic in his discussion, and he didn't have to, there wasn't even time, on purpose, at least that's how I understand it, provoked it. So he was the cause. I've got to finish it somewhere. So, please, let's put an end to this and get on with our work. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5958	Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your efforts to ensure that the remainder of the session is in order to explain this truly reform law that Serbia has long waited for and which, in my opinion, is the first but important step in solving the problem in the media area. It is very important that it is in line with EU law, which the European Commission has given a very high opinion on its proposal. I belong to a stranger myself, and many of my colleagues have said, which in the past has not rarely, thanks to the bad laws in the media area that have been and have also been poorly applied, experienced a media lynch. I expect that this law, which is really good, makes it possible for every citizen and every representative of the political party to be free to share their information freely, not to be misused in any context, and I also expect this law to allow citizens of Serbia, in the coming period, primarily true, quality, complete and timely information. I think all three laws have several very important goals. First of all, it should enable free development and maximum professionalisation of all media, transparency, both in the financing system and in the ownership structure of the media, and we are all witnessing in Serbia's recent history how much abuse there was when it came to the ownership structure of the media. It's very important that the state is definitely pulling out of the media and there's a precise time limit for it to do so. Of course, it only in one part, which is completely positive, retains the right to be within certain media, which is undoubtedly in all democratic countries. This law will achieve a fundamental improvement in the position of editors as well as an improvement in the protection of the rights of journalists and the prevention of illicit association in the field of public information, which, of course, prohibits hate speech and respects human dignity. More of my colleagues were talking about project media funding. I agree with this way of funding, and I believe that the money the media gets in competition, that their applications will be decided by the commission, important and important. What many journalists and journalists and journalists and news associations themselves have asked me, and I believe that this will be resolved by sublegal acts that are unknown at the moment, and it is not clear exactly how much that money will be so that they can compete and apply for its use. First of all, I think it is important that this law also foresees that within five years of privatisation, software structures and content must be maintained, which will help to transition the media to market functioning, but also to preserve the programming scheme, which is particularly important when it comes to media reporting in the languages of national minorities. What I also wanted to say, I think a lot of amendments have been submitted, but most of these amendments are in favour of improving this good reform law, because as I said, Serbia has long waited for one such good law. I have submitted several amendments when it comes to broadcasters in Serbia, and it is not doubtless that this law provides that commercials are not allowed to be broadcast on cross-border channels broadcast from abroad and re-emissioned in Serbia and operated in so-called business. The gray zone. I have to say for objectivity, truthfulness so far, and this issue couldn't be solved, because when the previous laws were passed, there were no cross-border channels. They were created in the meantime. They work mostly in the gray zone and try to destroy our domestic emitters first and foremost. So I'll talk about it more precisely when there's a debate in particular. I believe that this area needs to be further clarified, that it is more reasonable and that there is simply no dilemma in the application of this part of the law. As for the TV subscription, I have to say that the subscription or tax, more or less, it's the same for the citizens of Serbia, because in this difficult economic situation they need to allocate some money to public services and I think Serbian citizens are responsible people and they want that money to stand out because they understand the importance of the public service, but I think that these are the remarks that we have received from citizens these days from the interior, they want to be a little more information on the public service from the inside, so that they can watch our public service more and thus pay the subscription now, and that tax. I believe that this can be arranged by an adequate RTS policy, which will also enable these three laws. In any case, New Serbia, as a parliamentary group, will support all these three laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5959	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5960	What you mentioned is I think it's very important, and it's just defined through the public interest and that's what's obligation both RTS and RTTV, which is that they just have that program that absolutely covers the needs of all Serbian citizens. They undertake to use their quality of information and motivate citizens, so that it is not a tax that is only a legal obligation, but that it is as it is in other European countries, in fact one need and reaction to what public services represent in relation to all other commercial content.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5961	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5962	Mr President, I speak only to you because it stands in our Rules of Procedure, and that is the custom in all European Parliaments, that MPs do not address each other, avoid replicas, arguments and insults, but address only the chairman. So I'll be conducting a dialogue with you from now on. Right now, I'm talking to you. It's about this law in a technical way how the media sphere will be arranged, but behind that, it's about freedom, and freedom is talked about for a very long, thousands of years. The problem wasn't whether there was freedom or not, but how it was distributed. In the greatest dictatorships there was the greatest freedom for individuals. They could do whatever they wanted, say what they wanted. There was an anecdote with Ceausescu, he always had those favorites, writers. There's one writer in Romania who could say whatever he wanted, while the other would get jailed for it, and then this writer tells him, in this country, we're the only two of us free to do whatever you want, and I'll say whatever I want. Thus, freedom is constantly slow, whether it has become a universal right that applies to all people or someone has grabbed it. So that changed. What I'm trying to say here is something about European values and that we know that we're not doing any mystification. The minister himself said he had to hurry and we had to pass this law. Many speakers here boasted that it was all for the European Commission, various press commissions at the Council of Europe. So, we did something under the sea. We may have wanted to, but the form is that we have to comply with European law. This will not be the case only with this law, but with all the laws, because what many do not know, every country when it enters a large community, such as the EU or any other, it delegates one part of sovereignty to them. However, here, my colleague Vukomanovic called me a witness, that I am a witness to time and verbal delinquent and hostile propaganda, etc. So I hope it wasn't done because of my age, so that they would stand out, but rather because of my memory, that I remember the time when without trial or law went to fat prisons, when people were declared politically inadequate, so they lost their jobs, when they took a passport from who wanted people, etc. These were the times, and in those times, in the 1980s, there was a forum for the defence of human rights and freedoms. We defended rights and freedoms because they were terribly endangered. There were thousands of people arrested for hostile propaganda. That was Article 133. Criminal code, we've been collecting petitions all over the country. So the struggle for freedom has always been as present as the desire of those who possess the power to limit it. What was later, I described it in books, and I will not abuse this congregation time, in the 1990s, and what was then done, spoken, written, and done. I just wanted to say this because some people don't think history comes from the moment they mark that moment. There is history, and especially the history of oppression and struggle for freedom, a very long history. That's what writers should get into and talk about. When it comes to freedom, what this law speaks of, Mr. Chairman, we should all defend it. We represent ourselves, therefore, the electoral body or the people, and there shouldn't be a lot of disputes about it, and whoever wants to fix it, that these freedoms may be more, is welcome, and I never, Mr. Chairman, understood people who attack MPs why they write amendments. You know, the MP is free to say what he wants, says there in the book that he doesn't answer for it, let alone submit an amendment or not. Denying or doubting ahead is not good for spreading freedom. As far as this law is concerned, as I said earlier, we know that this is a European law, because the EU has formulated it and the EU ambassador has several times publicly ordered that it be adopted as soon as possible. There's a little comment here. There are some that have missed or got through. One of these is that 76th on intent. It's the most dangerous thing to bring. This famous member of the enemy propaganda spoke of the intentions of someone that by saying, he wanted to break the state's reputation, and this dispute was led throughout liberalism, and it was nothing by chance. One of the greatest liberals, John Stewart Mil, when in his head about freedom of the media, he says, I hope the times have passed, when we should have fought for freedom of speech. Then there's one footnote where he says I'm wrong. A few years ago, an extremely repressive law arrived in England. So let us be aware that what we are doing, we are doing out of the need for the EU to believe that we are going to reform, and if we think that we are going to say and adopt the law, and then we are going to leave the current chaos in our media, leave all the tabloids associated with the police, they are more pendrek police, than some notice that this is going to go away, then people are wrong about it. We have to make what we bring here today become a practice, because even the worst regimes have passed great laws, but that doesn't mean anything. It all depends on how much power we're going to have to do this without it, maybe he didn't have a good intention or leave it to think about it, you don't know who exactly, whether there was a bad intention or not. And in the end, there's one problem here - what are the media for? So they have three assignments. They were defined in the Munich Declaration of 1971. First, to provide freedom of information, freedom of the media, secondly, to provide the highest value of truth, just to seek the true basic goal of the media and thirdly, that human dignity and privacy must be respected. That's the key. If by spreading one freedom, such as freedom of speech or the media, we endanger another freedom that is the dignity of a person, then we haven't done a good job. So these two things have to go together. Do we today have a guarantee that our media will not treat human dignity so easily, so anyone who is invited to some informative conversation will be marked as the greatest criminal, so when tomorrow turns out to be called for some information, it won't be published. It's a threat to a person. In the end, this was about auto-censorship. What's auto-censorship? That's when you tell yourself -- well, that's dangerous, don't do it, that's why they'll fire you, you'll lose your salary, not to say you'll go to jail, or worse. It then assumes the existence of an atmosphere of fear spreading, or a deficit of the rule of law in society, and it speaks ill of it. Have we considered one key subject here, journalists? I have a paper on me, and we had a few discussions about it in one democratic, political forum, where the press union says that a large part of the journalists have very miserable salaries, secondly, that a large part of them are only on the contract or on some word that they are there and every moment they feel insecure about their existence and we can't ask them to be heroes of some ethnic honor and that they're just defending it. They must create conditions for them to be completely free, that they have no sense of coercion from the editors, from anyone else. It is the task of journalists to serve the truth and to resist, above all, the influence of owners and public authorities. That's what one other declaration from 1946 says, and it's included in the United Nations Charter. So we're here to discuss some vital values, and let's get these technical things fixed with the amendments, and we'll talk about them. But let's not argue that some freedom begins from yesterday or yesterday, or some evil, I don't know since when, but let's discuss what today in the world is dominantly regulated by international statutes and what we have to abide by, and these stories of us whether anyone is for Europe, this much or so, it won't be much appreciated. I just wanted to say so deliberately, as you see the chairman, I didn't mention a single person, so I wouldn't cause the replicas and that part of the debate in the Assembly here, which really doesn't cheer me very much when it comes to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5963	Mr Micunovic, I have the need to support your approach to the degrees of MPs and I believe and expect that most of the MPs will look to this principle of exposure and address, above all, the chairman, and not the bickering of each other, to use that little ugly word, and in this way we bring the situation to violate the violation of the Rules of Procedure and insult, which I certainly want to do the least. After all, I think it's appropriate for the two of us to be promoters of such an act. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5964	We are today talking about three media laws on the proposal for a law on public information and media, a proposal for a law on electronic media and a proposal for a law on public media services. The application of these laws will contribute to protecting the interests of citizens, in the field of information, and in a comprehensive way, the area of media law will be governed. Serbia's media scene has been transformed and reformed for more than a decade. The effects of the reform we have had so far are not particularly optimistic, that these laws will have a major impact on changing the information structure in Serbia. I would like to return to one document that should be in line with these laws, which is the Strategy on the development of a public information system in the Republic of Serbia, which sets out guidelines for the public information system by 2016, with the fundamental goal of further strengthening the established democratic relations in the area. The strategy is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as on the standards and experiences and definitions of the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the European Union. I would just one note, that the strategy provides that seven other public media services are being established in addition to the existing public media services and thus enables equality, equal treatment for the whole of Serbia. So far, the practice of privatisation has not yielded results in this area. The entry into force of the 2001 Law has created legal basis and frameworks to implement a comprehensive privatisation of the media, owned by the state. Privatisation in the media sphere so far has not been successful and of the large number of public messages that were in privatisation, a large number has not been privatised, and one part that was privatised simply has not worked. We also had a problem with media privatisation in Nis. At the end of last year, we had this accident to close two other strong regional public services that were privatised, which are TV Five and Television Zone, media that had great ratings, diversity of programmes and thus timely and comprehensively informed the public of Southeast Serbia. Now at a time of the current economic crisis, what fate will the media be on the market, in tenders, auctions, when they have no investors in many more profitable areas, the issue is great? With the inability to create regional public services, we are reducing the possibility of a non-competitional programme, although the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe advises and recommends that Member States should seek to make available a wide enough range of media diapases of various owners, both private and public, taking into account the characteristics of the media market, in particular the specificities of the commercial and competitive aspects. Also, within the framework of the legal arrangement of ownership, the Committee of Ministers advises that member states should make sure that a sufficient number of different media is provided. These rules should be adapted to the size and specificities of the national, regional and local market characteristics. Therefore, it is clear that it does not support favouring, the existence of exclusively commercial media at regional and local level, but is looking for pluralism of ownership. The recommendations further say that member states should encourage the development of other media that are the staff to contribute to pluralism and equality. These media can exist, not as an example of municipal, local, minority or social media. What it insists on, as shown in this document, is particularly important what this law has provided, it is transparency of ownership. Member States should ensure that the public has information on persons or bodies participating in the structure of the media and on the nature and proportions of the participation of those persons and bodies, this is one special achievement of this law. We are constantly talking and accusing each other – who, as many as a series of accusations of influence over public information means, which does not guarantee the objectivity of the state to the media, on the contrary, only extends the potential of individuals or groups to the media. A general question is raised whether southeastern Serbia, northwestern Serbia or Shumadi, however, has the same treatment, status, position as Vojvodina or Belgrade, which is covered by public media services? The amendments that have been submitted and possibly repaired by these laws need to be carefully studied, in order to ensure that all regions of Serbia are represented on objective and timely information in all areas of life and work, with respect and respect for the specificity of parts of Serbia. For all of us and for the sake of the public, I have to show another piece of information that comes in favor of regional public services, which is that 36,000 Nišli have declared to their signatures that Niška TV is in the status of regional public service, as well as that the Assembly of the City of Nis in two, three calls unanimously declared and supported the statement of 36,000 Nisli and decided that Nisli is a regional public service. There are a lot of positive solutions in these laws. It is particularly positive that this law allows transparency in the media sphere, which will know the ownership structure of all media. Also, this law allows project funding, which enables all good projects to provide sufficient resources for quality work, timely and comprehensive public information, so who has a good project or programme will also provide sufficient resources to realise their projects and programmes. After this debate and debate in particular and improving the quality of these laws through the adoption of certain amendments, the PUPS Group will support this set of media laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5965	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5966	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and respected guests, I think it is very important that we have a serious debate on the content of these three draft laws, especially when there is serious doubt that clean censorship has prevailed in Serbia today and that there are direct political pressures on journalists, on media editors and media owners. The new party will conditionally support all three draft laws and this support is conditioned by the government's position and MPs, above all, by the ruling coalition here on our amendments. The two of us, Zoran Zivkovic and I, have submitted a total of 15 amendments and have at least one amendment to each of these three draft laws. Three very important things to me for this discussion we have today. First, point 1. I agree that good public information laws and media, electronic media and public media services are one of the conditions for consolidation of our democracy. The minister today argued one of his views with the same argument. There's no dilemma here, but it's not enough, Mr. Minister, to place the norms on the shelves. Experience tells us, at least as far as I can tell, that our practice goes beyond what's written as some norm, put into some law, previously in the bill of law, etc. You're part of the executive government, and I think, for example, that executive power before, and especially in the last two years, it's with the operation of some individuals from the executive power that has formed more than anyone else a media reality that's gone beyond the ideals that we're talking about here today, and that we've heard about from you. You, Mr. Minister, were mostly silent when we had such examples and our opinion is, here is mine, that in the case of further collisions of reality and norms, you must not act as you have done in the past two years. You first have to act, attack whoever wants that reality to make it go away from the ideal and fight for this freedom that should be written in these laws. The other thing, I think it's important that we know and that here we have consent, that freedom of the media can't just be established by law. Media freedom is worth as much as it is worth to journalists and citizens of Serbia above all. I think that's what journalists in our country should hear, that it's those who have to fight for that freedom and that this issue of their struggle is actually a matter of responsibility for acting within one otherwise elevated profession in every society. The third most important thing, Mr. Minister, is that I agree that three types of autonomy of the media should be provided with legal – institutional autonomy, software autonomy and financial autonomy, but I do not agree with you, and Mr. Zivkovic also mentioned that the financial autonomy of public services, as provided for by these laws, i.e. by law, will be guaranteed by the introduction of a tax or that it will be possible to achieve it to the greatest extent possible if we have a tax. Please, you say there are only a few countries where there is such a practice, and I say we just look at our experience. And Zoran Zivkovic told you that. We have some experience for one case and another, not for a tax, but for a subscription. When we had 2001, 2002 and 2003 budget financing of public service, there was no dilemma, the greatest criticism of freedom of the media, journalists were noticeable then. After that, we have a subscription period. What happened? Here, Mrs Vukomanovic said here today that 75% of Serbian citizens decided not to pay the subscription. Why not pay the subscription, Mr. Minister? Because certainly many citizens have noticed that the public service is in the hands of the government even when they pay the subscription, even then, I would say to conclude, if we introduce a tax. We have some experience. It suggests something, and when we had a subscription and if we have a tax, it doesn't mean that financial autonomy will be guaranteed, and we have a part of the experience that says -- budget financing, it provides. We have 11 amendments on the fee. If you're willing to talk to me on the day of our amendment debate, it'll be a great pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5967	The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5968	Thank you. I just need to correct you. I'm not a minister for three or two years, but it's going to be a year in September, but I take this as a compliment compared to what's been done. Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that few executives would pass such laws if they wanted censorship, laws that are completely one huge step and that are fully in line with the best European practice. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5969	I don't see the basis for the replica. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I am not well interpreted. I don't really see it. The minister answered correctly. You have no right to a replica. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5970	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, we have had the opportunity to discuss a set of media laws on the Committee on Culture and Information. My first remark was the way this set of media laws arrived at the Assembly. Of course, it's not the government's fault. It seems to me more to blame the president of the assembly. On Saturday, a set of these media laws was passed at the government meeting at 11.00 p.m. He was late in the evening in the e-parliament, and Monday at 10.00 a committee meeting was scheduled, so I think all those serious MPs, especially members of the Committee, who want to prepare themselves seriously for the Committee's session, and later on for the plenary session, did not have enough time for 333 members of all these three laws to take a proper look at it, but it is more for the chairman of the Assembly, who has scheduled the session within such a short time. What do you think the media image of Serbia is at this point? I'll give you a few of my visions. I think the non-transparent ownership of the media is a big problem. I think there's all the tabloidisation of the media, that journalists are exposed to threats and attacks, that there's auto-censorship. Is the disorderly and small salary enough to motivate journalists to report impartially, critically, or perhaps express a personal attitude? Of course not. The journalist knows he may be struck by fate, at best, the board chief in "News", who dared to present his opinion on the same in the day of the Serbian government's election. It was then removed from the post, with the explanation of the main and responsible editor "News" that his shift was planned anyway, and that it had nothing to do with the ruling party's objections. For a reason or not, we know who's behind his shift. Of course, there is also an example of journalist Nebojsa Spajic, who has not long stayed in office as RTS advisers, because he dared point to poor government moves. After an orchestrated attack in the tabloids, he retreated from that function. In my opinion, the unheard reaction of the ruling party's representatives to every criticism addressed to the government and prime minister's work. Of course, public service attacks are also outrageous, on his editorial policy, which they say is leading the hunt against the prime minister. Tabloids are racing who's gonna announce someone's arrest sooner. Criminal proceedings are being initiated on the front page, those who are suspected of something are being blamed in advance, the opposition is being satanized, and so on. Where's the end of all this, Mr. Minister? The head of the European Commission delegation warned in May, I quote, that the media situation in Serbia is very unsatisfactory and that there are still some unpleasant and even unacceptable phenomena in the media. Davenport stated that data from official investigations of a girl in public and that individuals in the media are being attacked in a personal and unacceptable way. Michael Davenport also said public services must be ready to criticise the government and the government, but that the government must understand, adding that any pressure on the media is unacceptable. It is up to the authorities to take seriously the warnings coming from the European Commission. Mr. Minister, I would like to hear your opinion on the suggestions made and the opinion of the head of the European Commission Mission in Serbia? Whether we will need tutors to implement these laws, or whether we need them to implement them, or whether the government will understand that it must be responsible for law enforcement or the pressure on the media will continue to an even greater extent, since the adoption of so-called. reforming painful laws, and the government is asking for almost 100% media support? Mr Minister, the government must finally understand that it is under the public eye and that it is obliged, according to the law, to suffer critical opinions, which relate to the results of its work, or to the policy it carries out, and in relation to the performance of its function, regardless of whether it feels personally injured by the presentation of those opinions. This is a quote from Article 8. Public information law. My question is whether besides the adoption of these laws, the states will do anything to make the media in Serbia independent and professional. In the end, I would like to pay my respects to a small number of brave and honorable journalists who are doing their job in accordance with the ethical code of Serbian journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5971	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5972	I am reporting under article 107 - the dignity of the National Assembly. A former colleague, who has otherwise performed very constructively on the Committee itself, has agreed on many things, has said one amazing thing, and it offends all of us. Someone says – you know who's behind the shift of the head of the board of "Evening News". I call on her to say her name is the person behind the shift of the head of the "Evening News" board, so before I know the man. He was my editor at the time in one Sunday’s “Revival 92. ” I think of him for the best, but if you're already alluding that it's someone in power, say by name and by name who the person responsible for his shift is, because everyone would like us to know that. We can't go around accusing people like this, because it really doesn't make sense, and it offends this House's dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5973	I have to find out there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, no matter how you've experienced her statement. After all, you know that according to the Rules of Procedure, every MP has the right to express his vision with which you can agree and do not have to. But you're right, if you want us to plead on this injury in voting day. (No) The word of the messenger of the people is Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5974	I'm advertising Article 27. Since the beginning of this session, we have been constantly wasting our time trying to convince the chairman, whether it's you or the other vice president or the president of the assembly. You cannot lead this House as it comes to you, but as the Rules of Procedure obliges you. SNS MPs constantly use the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate, to assess what other MPs have said. You allow it. Sometimes you find that they have broken the Rules of Procedure, but it does not prevent you from stopping them from speaking, or from giving them some of the measures provided for in the Rules of Procedure, or even when you find that they have violated the Rules of Procedure. You do not give other MPs an opportunity to respond to what they have said, saying that the violation of the Rules of Procedure cannot be a basis for replication, even though you yourself have found that they have violated the Rules of Procedure and misused their right to advertise, to show you that you have violated the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to coordinate the way you hold a session with the Rules of Procedure, to treat all MPs equally because, speaking like this, we won't get far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5975	Mrs. Jerkov, I can't convince you to change your mind. It's your right. Personally, I feel like I'm having a very correct session. I may be wrong, but that's my opinion, like your opinion. I don't want to demonstrate force here. I'm trying to be maximum tolerance, whether you like it or not, but I know that when it comes to a particular person, I don't mean you, when I apply the Rules of Procedure methods, then they're hurt. You can apply everything to someone else, but not just me. I am tolerated, and I accept that. I think it's better if I'm tolerable than I'm playing power here right now. Maybe that would suit my nature and profession, but I don't have a wish for it. While I could do it, I was working, and now I have a wish... I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it's your right to plead our injury. I am aware, in part, that you are right, that I tolerate the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and that it is used for replication. You put yourself in my role so that now whoever does it, I'll cut it like a log. Please, let's at least be so tolerant. The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5976	Mr. General, the honored guests, there is no dilemma that you enjoy a certain sympathy in this hall of all the MPs and our guests, but I must advertise the violation of article 108, because when you say that you are tolerant and that we should not blame you for your tolerance towards the MPs... Ms. Jerkov wanted to tell you that you are adept at the MPs of one party, and when, for example, New Party MPs who are in opposition to a member of the Rules of Procedure say a few more words about these bill proposals, etc., then you are not tolerant. You know what you've answered, Mr. Chairman, you've told me that you, as a general, will of course decide whether I speak or not. I believe, Mr. Chairman, that it was not a measure of tolerance. I agree with Mrs. Jerkov that you don't even need to think about whether you're being tolerated right now, we're just inviting you to stick to this Rules of Procedure equally to all the MPs. It's some standard and standard we should stick to. That's all we have to say about the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5977	I claim and guarantee that I have never said, as a general, that I do not give you my word. Take care, don't put what I didn't say in my mouth. Second, as long as the left and right are as angry as they are, I realize I'm on a good line. I'm asking you, do you want us to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Thank you, we'll make a statement. The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5978	Since you referred to a statement by Michael Davenport a few months ago in your presentation, I'd like to draw your attention to his statement a few days ago. EU delegation to Serbia head Michael Davenport said the adoption of a set of media laws would be a major shift in compliance with European standards. The European Union and the European Commission want a media strategy to be implemented, and media laws are the most important tool for this. I think we've been having conversations on this subject for a long time. The European Commission has commented on several drafts and it seems to me that the government intends to adopt this set of laws as soon as possible. That's very positive, Davenport said. Meanwhile, the government adopted a proposal for the set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5979	The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5980	Of course, I know Michael Davenport said what you just said the other day, but in the last two months, it just wasn't possible for the media situation in Serbia to change. He then gave an assessment of the media situation in Serbia, i.e. the media image he sees. Positive opinion on the set of laws we all welcome, of course. You yourself said that he gave an opinion on harmonising our bill with European laws, but that's not the essence of the whole story. He described on 11 May or 14 May the situation in Serbia that cannot be changed by adopting this set of media laws, you will agree with me. I hope that all together, of course headed by the ruling party, the ruling majority, we as MPs, all citizens, journalists, the media will engage and make sure that these laws live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5981	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5982	Absolutely, the government is aware and the Ministry of Culture is just the way ahead of us, if we talk about what media literacy is, about a whole series of sublegal acts that need to come to life in order to bring this law to life. To tell you, there is no second time, this is exactly the first step towards it, and the government's intensity is to analyse all the problems from previous periods set one good basis for making a better situation in the media and that the entire media community, where I really don't put just journalists, but also those who are our viewers, listeners, readers and everyone else have better information. I think this set of laws is exactly the necessary step to make it happen. We can't possibly skip it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5983	The next person registered for the word is MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5984	I have to ask a few questions and in this way try to break this quasi idyllic atmosphere from essentially the very bad laws you've brought here in the Assembly. So, I wonder if the Media Strategy adopted by the Serbian Government is valid in Serbia on 28 September 2011 and did the government change that media strategy, at which session and when? Who changed it? Did you redefine the Strategija, did you bring a new strategy and were you authorized or former Minister Petkovic to do so and when? I also wonder if it is possible for media laws to be in full collegiate with their own roof document, which the Strategy is and who is true and when it decided to change? 'I must say that all citizens of Serbia today are obliged to pay equal amount of television subscription or to finance public service from the budget. However, the people of Vojvodina have the opportunity to follow the National Public Service RTS and have their regional service, but no one else in Serbia has that advantage. What has the convenience, and what you can't explain in any way is what directory are we going to use for citizens, including me, who regularly reconciled their obligations through payment of the subscription? Does the noun start on B and end on A? If so, please give at least words of comfort to those citizens who have been paying all this time for the subscription for their naivety through the avoidance of the legal obligations that you've been adjudicating in the following way. First, the prime minister said several times that the subscription was lifted, so it didn't go away, and we continued several thousand of us to pay the subscription. Those who did not continue to pay the subscription as well as those who do not take civil permits, like those who do not pay taxes, like those who are very close to your authorities are very smart, and the rest of us turn out to be the directory that starts on B and ends on A. I have to tell you that you and through this have shown double arches and a high degree of controversy, because how else do we say that the practice throughout the process of adopting media laws is one of the themes of the ministry's representatives during the public debate on the Public Information Bill was that funding of the media from the budget endangers their independence, editorial policy and competition in local and regional markets. On the other hand, you are doing the same thing to Article 37, as the financing of RTS from the Republic of Serbia's budget is projected. Now how do you calm down those two things you said? Today, Serbian citizens need to know that through these provisions, you will privatise local radio and TV stations, that there will be no chance that people will get local information, that people working in these media will lose their jobs. They also need to know they're gonna pay the subscription, but it's not called that, it's called a tax. They also need to know that it's going to happen in a year and that people are going to have to pay for it. Now you're in college, because the prime minister has fulfilled his promise to cancel the subscription, but only for a little while and now it's going to be called a different one. There are a lot of things that are in particular, which we will try to change without success through the amendments. The Public Information Act says no one can own two or more media if they participate in an auditorium or so on. "Ser" exceeds 35%. This is the basis for cartelisation and large coverage of the territory through the ownership of numerous media can provide a dominant impact on the marketing market, as you know, without distorting the 35 percent participation in the auditorium. The control should be carried out by the Competition Protection Agency. In the second step, it is possible to kill public services with unlimited offer, which is already permitted, and you are silent for a year, easy content and realistic programs with good morning with SNS, good night with SNS and in the meantime you as an authorised minister are silent. We were saying, why does Minister Tasovac keep his mouth shut, and today you answer every question you ask. I knew we'd get in trouble for cursing you so much. The Law on Electronic Media in Article 4 states – the meaning of individual terms, item 1 point 1, part of the definition of electronic media and the content of electronic edition. Dear citizens, if electronic editions are electronic media, this means that the almighty, bitten by the corruption of the labour measure, can control, has jurisdiction over the websites, has jurisdiction over the electronic display and thus can control it. This should not remain so, because we believe that the RRA now has too much power over both electronic and internet editions of printed media, which is not in line with the European standards you are referring to, and I am responsiblely saying that no one from the EU has told you that you should remove regional and local services, no one, because it exists in the EU and I am responsible for that. That's how we referred to Europe in the reform of the judiciary. Well, you know how we went. The third thing - a member of the RRA council is elected for a period of five years and can be re-elected, which in theory and practice means that there are no restrictions on the number of mandates, which means that even members of the RRA who have already had two mandates of six years can be re-elected indefinitely. The limit on the number of mandates is one of the basic democratic principles and we are asking it to change. A provision has disappeared under which owners and media employees cannot be members of the RRA council. So, to explain to the citizens, this means that future members of the RRA council may be Mr. Zeljko Mitrovic, Mr. Minos Kirijaku or you, Nedeljkovic, and others. Are you denying it now? If you deny it, I ask you here publicly to deny it. Is there any possibility that, say, Mr. Vukevic will be a member of the RRA council? Is there a possibility that Zeljko Mitrovic could be a member of the RRA council? In addition, there is no ban on the counsel of persons convicted of a crime, no ban. Someone who's convicted can do what's wrong. Budgetary funding is maintained and you are turning public service into a public enterprise, at least for a while, although colleagues have said, and this current public service situation, i.e. The RTS is exactly what you wanted. There's no opposition, there's only power, and that's when they let us go, they let us go for one second, and of course something completely irrelevant. Who says otherwise I say he has no idea what's going on on our television, absolutely responsible. I have to tell you that you've put the government's regulation closer regulates the way funds are transferred, as well as the control of the use of funds in public service. That's what the law says. You know what that means. That means that the government will absolutely control everything it does right now, although no one has called anyone. No one calls anyone, no one presses anyone. It's just, look, there's no opposition anywhere. There's no opposition anywhere. Once a month, give us an hour in prime time at Gorislav Papic's to see what we have to say. Or can only one side be heard in this country? It's embarrassing, and you know the state of our media. These media outlets are barracks today, gentlemen, and there's no laughing. Who doesn't want to say that she absolutely doesn't see what's going on here. I must tell you, I think it is necessary to commit ourselves to the law to transfer the RRA session publicly, to be broadcast live on the website, that it is possible to be accredited for these sessions, that all analyses and surveys of public opinion be placed on the Agency's website, that they are selected for five years and never again, just for five years, that a member of the council must report to the Anti-Corruption Agency and all data from his family and that this must be done. I'm sure this won't completely change the system but it will stop the endemic corruption that obviously exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5985	You've spent your time with your MPs, you've got no more time. The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5986	I don't think you were in the O.R. when we talked about it, but the media strategy is not a legal document and the simple reality of this time and comparison with Germany, Austria or other countries with a far stronger economy, I don't think it's relevant. As for your doubts about the election of future members of the regulatory body, given that the member of the council is a functioner, the law prevents conflict of interest in the exercise of public office is applied. I don't think there's really any need to do this one more time, since we've explained it more than once. One, in the next year and a half, budget funding will be fully transparent, and then a tax will be introduced where the price will be maximum to 500 dinars. You know for a fact that when laws are passed, it is not only one ministry, it is simply necessary to bring the policies of all ministries into line, and it is necessary that what you put into that law is also applicable. The only thing I can't give you an answer is this noun that starts with "b" and ends with "a," as much as I concentrate, I haven't been able to figure out what you mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5987	Zoran Babic answered the line to Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5988	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm ready to carry out the comparative, I'm ready to carry out the measurements. Let's measure how much the opposition SNS was present at the time in the electronic media in 2011 compared to the presence in the media of opposition parties in 2013 and 2014. Let's see, let's measure what kind of torture was carried out over SNS and Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandra Vukic, let's measure how many times it appeared in the electronic media Dragan Gilas in the 2014 campaign and how many times Alexander Vukic. I'm not going to allow the pausal methods of suppressing and giving labels that are not based either in reality or in the truth. On the other hand, something very difficult has been said here, difficult, that the RRA is enraged by corruption. If someone knows and says that the RRA is enraged by corruption and the individuals of the RRA are bitten by corruption, and they are silent, I think it's a crime, and if it just puts the label on it that it's tightened in corruption by Mr Karadzic or Porfirija or Mrs Gordan Suša, then it's terrible, then it's driven by political hatred. The rest seems a little bit like local media, Mr. Minister, who haven't privatized. You will leave this new law and shut down the local media. Let's see how many local media are left? It seems to me that in the city I'm from, the local media has been privatized by the former president of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5989	Time, two minutes and eight seconds. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5990	This is where the local media is misjudged. Through project co-financing, it is really possible for these media to get a whole new quality. Also, privatisation implies different opportunities than for someone to privatise this medium, until these actions are eventually shared with the journalists themselves. So, I wouldn't go so easily through this brand-new institution, which is project co-financing, because it's clearly and clearly defined which of the contents that are related to the public interest will be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5991	I thank you, Minister. Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: At the presentation of Mr Babic. But he's replicated you. He hasn't mentioned you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Then to the presentation of Mr. Minister. Minister, did you mention anything offensive or just answer? You're the one who answered Grandma. Ambassador Stefanovic, indeed, is not given the right of attitude 1 or attitude 2 this time. You'll have to wait... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. () Say just a member, exactly what I've hurt and quote the provision. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5992	Two minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5993	Two minutes. Because of the case of previous presidential and numerous abuses, you know for certain that I will punish abuses. That goes for all MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5994	Articles 103 and 104. President, please, when I am addressed directly by the Minister in the Government and addressed by the majority chief, the majority leader, speak directly to me and speak to me about the rule of my party, in which case, if nothing else, it is appropriate for me to respond to the bar minister, in terms of discussion and mutual clarification. It doesn't have to be offensive. It's like we're not reading the same Rules of Procedure. Now I just want to figure out one thing. This is the third time in the last two days that opposition representatives are not allowed to say, of course, with a very extensive interpretation or opposite of the extensive interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. So, I ask you to allow me the right to reply, because I think I can answer both Minister and Mr. Babic, and it is up to you, of course, and you always have the member who allows you to do it on your own, but I urge you not to do it, but to allow the opposition those two minutes to answer. You want to give me the right to a replica or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5995	Now you've been talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so my decision is waiting two minutes to expire, so I'll tell you. Thank you. I don't think I've hurt Rules of Procedure and Rule 104 or Article 103. Take and read all the views set out in Articles 103 and 104, especially if it is not accidentally given to the President or the chairman to decide on it. That's why there's a president, and there's a chairman, to make a decision, so it won't be those who read at the airport when the plane flies. That's obvious. I fully understand that you keep saying that you can't allow the opposition to replicate when he wants to, but for the last hour, before I chaired, he's completely defunct. So it's absolutely not possible. I'll let you rephrase anyway. There are 30 other MPs, I'm sure there'll be some reason for you to get a replica. The minister's failure to turn to me, as Mr. Micunovic suggested that everyone was talking to the president, is now a small technical problem. He wasn't talking to you, really. I don't have a bad intention. I'll give the word to Miletic Mihajlovic, SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5996	Dear Presidents, Mr Ministers, co-workers at the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People are certainly very important to these laws, the Law on Public Information and the Media, the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media and the Proposal for a Law on Public Media Services, which we are considering here today. The public information law adopted in 2003 has been overcome. In these new circumstances, we have new moments, new standards, and in particular it is said that there is a need to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation in this area. I will say at the very beginning that the SPS parliamentary group will certainly vote in favour of these laws. However, we have a critical relationship with what the media is. Not only today, we can also talk about the situation in the media in the 1990s and after 2000, and what the situation in the media was in 2008 to 2012, and there is also something to be said about the state of the media today. We can't talk fairy tales about the situation in the media being good by adopting this law and, as Mr. Minister has said, this is only the first step and the assumption that things are arranged in the best possible way, along with many participants in this area, starting with those whose job it is, and across the state, to citizens. When we talk about the media, of course there is a question of freedom, which is closely related to the functioning of the media. Public information is indisputable, because it is, on the condition that it is true, objective, complete and timely, in the function of achieving full freedom of citizens as universal values, which is what we were talking about here. Only in full freedom and democracy can the general progress of society be expected. Freedom as a universal value is constantly in danger, because reducing the freedom of one is a greater freedom of others, and that certainly is not the goal. Of course, one of the most effective dosing and distribution tools is media freedom. There are many dangers that make up for objectivity and true and complete information. Of course, this is a problem not only for us in Serbia, this is a problem that exists in developed democracies. As a rule, by intensity, every government, sometimes more, and sometimes less, seeks to gain its influence through the media and thus strengthen its position. Also, a poor economic situation, and hence the ruling policy, is not a favourable environment for media objectivity. It should not be doubted that our government, like many other factors of our society, is aware of the state of our media reality. The point is, and our government certainly realized that free, objective and responsible media are a condition for the development of democracy and the general progress of the Serbian country. Without real and true information, there is no quality political decision, both in everyday practice and in the elections themselves, when predetermining what policy will be led in the next period. We mentioned several times here that economic conditions and the economic environment have a very powerful impact, even past the authorities, affecting the profile of the media image. Of course, at the time of the tycoon privatisation of a variety of stakeholders and how they created media content for their own benefit. We also had, unfortunately, that certain criminal groups, as well as certain criminalized parts of the state authorities, had an impact on the media. In such conditions, the media is instrumentalized in favour of the power center and we have so-called "the power centre". media engineering, modeling a new political and social reality and public opinion. So in such circumstances society cannot have public information with an ethical and aesthetic approach, everything becomes relatively and far from real and real. In action then, in such situations, we have terror over truth and taste. Of course, this is not a general assessment that applies to some period, including today’s state of mind in all the media. It is a phenomenon in some media today that abuse the freedom of media exposure. So through the media, arrests are announced, judgments are pronounced and intrigued more often than the truth. Today, the media industry has fully adapted to the values of market ideology by neglecting the basic ideas of enlightenment, which is very important not to do so. The media is expected to inform, entertain, educate and cultivate. Thanks to the development of media industry from around the world, the role of media is reduced to information and entertainment while marginalized other functions such as education and cultivation in terms of processing, of course. Often media information is modified on purpose into entertainment, the essence is ignored, and the case is made of it. The titles of the photographs dominate the text and are provoked through the title and make associations in the direction of building a case that does not actually exist in the text. In all of this, of course, it should be said that we are expected to create a different environment based on these legal solutions with great attention and monitoring how this is going to happen. Finally, we cannot make EU accession unless we really correct this in a proper way. In addition to basic education for professional work in the media, it is necessary to create such a socio-political and economic context of life in which, apart from a decent material position, there is a right, freedom and truth in the first place. In this direction, the SPS will also be advocated, and in the end, once again, our MP SPS will vote for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5997	The word has the Soul Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5998	Dear fellow MPs, the President-in-Office of the Government, has so far not been the political will in Serbia to introduce order in the media, as well as the adoption of legal regulations that regulate this area in more detail, especially when it comes to transparency of ownership over the media. So, areas of public information and roles in which media requires further harmonisation of the legal framework with standards contained in international documents. It is about international documents of the UN, the Council of Europe and the EU. It is also a matter of applying the European Court of Human Rights' positive practice. The process of further democratisation and Serbian society is seen through the achievement of freedom of public information for what it is necessary to bring a set of these three media laws. It is about the adoption of the Law on Public Information and Media, the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Public Services. All EU members have so far had the opportunity to integrate these laws in their national legislation. Croatia did so in 2012, when it adopted the Law on Electronic Media. Positive estimates of the draft texts of these laws come from all sides. All three proposals for media laws were sent to the European Commission for an opinion. Brussels gave a positive opinion on these laws. Also, this head of the EU delegation in Belgrade, his Excellency, Mr. Michael Davenport, expressed positive about the adoption of these media laws. According to him, a set of media laws is the result of a very wide public debate held in Serbian society over the past two years. All of this was supported by international institutions such as the OSCE, and other EU member states. Public hearing on the Information Law was organised on 19 March 2013 when the resolution minister was Mr. Bratislava Petrovic. The European Integration Office in its report on the implementation of the national programme for the adoption of the 2013 legal flows, known as the NPAA, speaks of the lack of further implementation of the Public Information System Strategy in the Republic of Serbia until 2016. It also speaks of the need to adopt legislation to address the area of electronic media and public services. One simple question is why it is important to regulate the sphere of media space. On its European path, the Republic of Serbia seeks to harmonise and comply with EU rules, but by introducing, above all, European standards in the media area. The media is the subject of several chapters on EU accession. Explanatory and bilateral screens have been achieved so far for chapters two, ten and 23. They have completed successfully and are talking about continuing the accession process. We also need to have harmonised media regulations with European regulation. Under Chapter 10, when we talk about information society and media, the media in Serbia are primarily seen from the point of view of the application of the directive for audio-visual media services. The current Law on Public Information, which has been in force for more than a decade, is full of many shortcomings, not only inconsistencies with legal terms, but also with the current terminology that has ruled for modern means of communication, but its application in practice has proved to be very important. In fact, the existing Public Information Act did not clearly specify the way in which the register was kept. Now this new law on public information and media introduces a new concept. It is about the concept of a media register that accurately predicts what data is needed to collect, which is the data that is being recorded, which virtually prevents the abuse of media transparency of the ownership structure. Although the existing law, which is present today, exists and operates in the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia, predicts so-called. The area has not been done in a comprehensive and systematic way for more than a decade in the public information system. The result of such implementation in practice is more than obvious, and the inability to see the ownership structure of the media unfortunately contributed to the existence of so-called. media concentration, which is very often difficult to detect, but also follow. All of this has had one very negative effect, and this is the absence of media pluralism. The lack of an adequate media framework when it comes to the media has a consequence that citizens of the Republic of Serbia did not really know who the real media owners were in Serbia. Often, media owners and media managers in Serbia themselves were exempt from any responsibility under the law. They were the only ones who cared about their own profits. They did not take into account the public interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to be timely, true and fully informed. Examples of this are numerous. We have reports from the Anti-Corruption Agency that says it is a Cyprus firm, and as one of the owners appears in 2009 to assume it is owned by Mr Miroslav Miskovic. It's about the daily newspaper "Pres". So far, there has been no written evidence that could confirm that Mr. Miskovic's ownership in these media until the moment Mr. Miskovic announced that he was withdrawing from the list. A report by former anti-corruption Council President Mrs. Verice Barac points to the fact that one of the possible owners of the "Pres" and then president of the DS. Maybe it's just an answer to the question of who has been bothering so far and who has so far wanted there to be a black cloak on ownership of media in Serbia. The next question being raised – what citizens have from the application of these laws. By applying European standards that are directly incorporated into the very text of the law, above all I mean when it comes to the Law on Public Information and Media, citizens will have the opportunity to meet their needs without discrimination through the development of free truly independent media. They'll also have free access to social life information. It will have timely information from policy areas, businesses, sports, economics, culture. Citizens will be entitled to timely and complete information without any form of discrimination. The application of European standards and procedures will also give rise to the right to create a framework guaranteeing free flow of ideas, free flow of opinion without State interference. The withdrawal of the state from ownership of the media except in special cases is provided for by this law but also by the current media strategy and the action plan. The aim of this law is to clearly define public interest and public information areas. A transparent media financing system in the field of public information and public revenue of the budget, the transition to project financing with the strengthening of control of the spending of the funds received. Serbian citizens need to know how each of the taxpayers in the Republic of Serbia's income is spent. Many abuses have occurred, so this law introduces newspapers. Government funds give huge money for media propaganda, which state institutions are not allowed to do. The state institutions must only do what is in their jurisdiction and in their jurisdiction, for example, was not a campaign – "Let's Clean Serbia", which in early 2011, according to information available in the media only for one site that has promoted this campaign, set aside 25,000 euros or 500,000 euros for the campaign presentation -- "Let's Clean Serbia" on "Serbia Open". This will fit into these regulations. In a clear way, the position of editors and the protection of the rights of journalists and the promotion of journalistic association has also been specified. The new Proposal for a Law on Public Information and Media provides protection in accordance with labour law rules, which strengthens the basis for the protection of professional journalistic integrity, i.e. the ban on law abuse and the spread of journalists in order to prevent freedom of public information. Also, it is a further strengthened position for journalists through the right to refuse to carry out their editor's order if they are to comply with a certain regulation, rules of profession or code of conduct of the journalist's profession. We had the following situation where a journalist made more than five hundred contributions in less than two years, so on. PR contributions to a bridge built in Belgrade. Did he get a warrant from his editor for that? Did he suffer the pressures of the director of marketing of the given media? Was he under direct pressure from politicians or was the simple pigeon Guta whispered to him to do it five hundred times? We won't know by now. Imagine, more than five hundred contributions were made on one bridge. If he'd run the weather forecast on that bridge, it would have been a lot. The transparency of media ownership, which I was already talking about at the beginning, we will now know exactly who is making us a media hat. This law now allows us to find out. The establishment of a media register with accurate and accurate data, for each media person, as a possibility to delete the media from the register, are only one of the advantages this law adopts. The protection of media pluralism through the prevention of illicit integration in the field of public information, then we have certain advantages concerning the protection of minors, the ban on public hearings and the publication of pornographic content, the exercise of the right to inform persons with disabilities, and these are just some of the situations defined by this law. The situation of the ban on hate speech, respect for human dignity and presummation of innocence is also defined. Also, what is the curiosity of this law will regulate the exact position of foreign media representatives, foreign correspondence and foreign media correspondents. You won't believe it, but until this set of media laws entered the assembly procedure, there was an old law in the period of communism, 1974. It is about the law on the introduction and destruction of foreign funds of public information, the informational work of Yugoslavia, from 1974, which was the last time he suffered changes and additions since 1996 and which until today is valid. Achieving freedom of distribution of media, preventing abuse in connection with published information of public importance, strengthening the mechanism to remove rights violations, finally all people on the public stage will have the right to respond and the right to correction, which is one of the basic democratic principles. Finally, providing conditions for adequate judicial protection in the event of public information rights. All of this is aimed at adopting a set of media law, the Serbian media scene is finally resolved in a transparent way, and the citizens will finally have the opportunity to be better and better informed. The responsibility for performing SNS, the SNS has also shown and shows when it comes to media. That it is not my subjective opinion, the positive opinions of the relevant international institutions testify. Over the past two years, according to standard measurement, about freedom of the media and freedom of speech, which are at stake each year, reporters "without borders" and "Fridom House", have indicated that Serbia has climbed 20 places, which is a huge success. As a member of the Council of Europe and a signator of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, Serbia has defined itself towards a modern, transparent, legal framework, which is heading increasingly towards the development of media and media freedoms. Finally, I want to point out the following, on average, Serbian citizens in one day receive more than 106,000 words and more than tens of thousands of information needed to process the brain. In order not to be trapped in the Big Brother's house anymore and so that we are not subject to the opiates described in Nomad Komoski's books on the media manipulation strategy, I suggest that you support good media laws in the voting day to enable the continuation of the European integration of the Republic of Serbia together, but also the inclusion of Serbia and our media in European and media spaces, where there are clear and advanced rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u5999	The word is Blagoje Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6000	Mr. Minister, today I have listened carefully to these statements, we are talking about a proposal for a law on public media services, a proposal for a law on public information and a proposal for a law on electronic media. We will talk about what the shortcomings and virtues of the proposed laws are, when we talk in detail, when we discuss and discuss the amendments submitted by the opposition, and I would like to now, since we are talking in principle about all the three laws in the package to open one topic and to share with you the thoughts of a very important piece that permeates all three drafts of the law and which, in my view, raises a very important political question. This is the part that concerns public media services, concerns the public interest and what will happen in our opinion, if this law in this original form, without the adoption of the amendment is adopted. You have foreseen this set of laws that in the middle of next year, all the media owned by local self-government should be privatised and I understand that, you are the parliamentary majority, it is a political decision, and you have the right to have the mandate that you have from the citizens of Serbia, to have how you think is best and to implement and to create the law as you think it is good. By the same law, this set predicted that there would be a national public service in Serbia that would have two state channels and three channels on the radio programme, that is RTS1 and RTS2, and RTB1, 2 and 3. What you have already written in this bill is that in the AP Vojvodina because of the inability of commercial broadcasters that will remain after privatisation, that they adequately meet the needs of the Vojvodina and the public interest of the people of Vojvodina, that there should also be the radio-television of Vojvodina, the first and second channel, and three radio programs. It's working, it's a political decision. What I think is a political issue, which we need to discuss here, as people say, which is why the proposal for a media strategy has been kicked out of the law, that there are regional centres, regional information centres, whatever you call them, because here is one of the reasons why they can't be, there is a regional service, because there are no regions, and it's evident that there are already shared regional frequencies, so I don't know how the profession can't resist and satisfy the needs of citizens, because the basic thing you want to do, so I think, is to satisfy the public interest of all Serbian citizens in the whole territory on equal terms. In order to better understand Serbia's citizens what I'm talking about, I'm going to present one data relating to GDP. The Vojvodina, which covers 30% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, has 30% of the population and has 30% of the Republic of Serbia's GDP. The city of Belgrade as the capital covers about 5% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and has a population of about 20% living in the territory of the city of Belgrade and has about 40% of gross social products. The rest of Serbia is 65%, it is Serbia under Sava and Danube, where 50% of the population lives and has about 30% of the gross social product. By this law, if public services are shut down, conditionally named, these are local media that own local self-governments that manage them and all go to commercial broadcasters, citizens of Serbia south of Sava and Danube, dear fellow MPs, will be in a more unfavourable position, conditionalally speaking, will be citizens of the second row compared to the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Vojvodina. Why? Because Belgrade as the capital has RTS-1, 2 and 3 programmes, Vojvodina will have RTV-1, 2 and 3 radio programmes. For example, I can give you my city, where I come from, Nis, where after 60 years the radio-Beograd station has been shut down, so the radio has been shut down and it doesn't exist. By applying this law, without adopting a recommendation from the media strategy that there are regional services, public services, information that citizens under Sava and Danube will receive from "Belgrade Chronicle" and "Novosadska Dnevnik". I am absolutely in favour of all Serbian citizens having the opportunity to see the "Belgrade Chronicle" as well and to watch the "Newsad Log", but as an option of choice, not as the only choice. The city of Nis, which is the centre of that part of Serbia where it gravitates over a million and a half inhabitants, made 800 contributions through RTS in 2012. Do you think that the problems that plague the city of Nis, the information that has one city of 200 thousand inhabitants and all the environment of millions and a half of inhabitants, should be satisfied through contributions to the "Hronica from the region"? I think different. Because if all Serbian citizens have an obligation and pay a TV subscription, whatever it's called, and it's okay, if the decision of the assembly majority is and the government has arranged it, okay, it's gonna be the law and it's gonna be realized, then I'm asking this Assembly and you, Mr. Minister, because you and my minister, even though I'm from Nis, that I have the same rights and the same opportunity of public service through regional centres, through regional services, whatever you call them, so it's not called low television, let's call it Belgrade four, five, seven, 12, it doesn't matter. The point is, the problems of local communities, whether good or bad, are publicized and people are looking at what they're interested in. Because I really don't care if there's a "two" going, I'm interested in whether there's a bus coming from the Ice Rock to the Low Bath. I really don't care if the water works, it's that it's a problem and that's what bothers the people of Belgrade, whether Makish is doing it right, I'm interested in whether it's clouded Studena. So we have a light of our own problems that we want to adequately look through that public service and be accompanied. I expect all MPs, especially from my city, because the city of Nis has launched an initiative and 35,000 Nish citizens have signed a petition to make low television regional... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6001	You've wasted your time, MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6002	... I'm done. So 35,000 people have signed to be a regional centre and I hope the MPs will support their fellow citizens' position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6003	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6004	I hope your presentations have also heard very carefully from RTS and TV management, because I think that is exactly one direction in which they must improve their programme and ensure that information from all over Serbia is available to everyone. If you think I'm less interested in what's going on in Nis in Belgrade, you're making a big mistake. And not just in what's about culture. Also, I think it is not good at this point to treat regional services as a political issue, but we must treat them as an economic issue. If we are going back to the strategy that was adopted in 2011, it has nevertheless been brought into some other economic circumstances, and the adoption of the law is not the adoption of a list of good wishes but simply what is possible at this time. If circumstances change, especially economically, I don't think anyone is against a certain number of years of looking at changes and additions to the laws of the existence of regional centres. At this point, it's simply not possible. But with the public interest defined, which must be represented at the Public Service, I think a good number of problems you've been talking about are being solved. At the end of the line, it is now a matter of RTS and TV leadership to start producing such programs where both the citizens of Nisa, Vranja and all other parts of Serbia will recognise, which I think they are already trying, at this point. But through this stable funding over the next year and a half through the budget, I'm sure it can still be fixed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6005	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6006	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6007	You have no right to a replica. The minister just answered. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6008	Dear Ministers, gentlemen of Parliament, the system of public information in every country has special importance for the development of democratic relations in society, for the development of the entire culture of the population of a country, for the overall understanding and creation of a single climate in which every person lives, regardless of the kind of media, the way of public address and communication, and therefore these topics, that is why today we must consider these laws with special attention. The strategy of developing a public information system in the Republic of Serbia, adopted in 2011, envisions that this area is completely reorganised by 2016, privatised, regulated by new laws that will comply with the highest standards of EU countries, and we are doing so now. For illustration, I will say that according to the Radio-Difuse Agency, and also in the Strategy, in Serbia today, there are 321 radio stations, one regional, 48 regional, 267 local, that there are 134 TV stations, six national, 30 regional and 98 local. In the process of social and economic change, in the present way of privatisation, the status of many of these cells has been changed and they are privatised. However, in many of them, the economic position of the media has been achieved with full dependence, financial, but also with each other, from capital, so we have gained in general for the last 10 years of quality levels, inadequate production, tabloidisation, auto-censorship, which has also been mentioned. Basically, we're all dissatisfied with poor condition and poor quality. Our goal, as it stands in the Strategy, namely the objective of government and state, and this is today our biggest challenge, raising the quality of the programme, strengthening the civil sector, creating conditions for regional and local broadcasters to produce editorially independent and professional quality content in an economically sustainable way. It must be so, which is also the goal of a democratically developed and orderly society, as well as of encouraging citizens to new, active participation in creating a media image of media programmes and content. The goals are, in any case, the creation of a quality program, strengthening pluralism, full of editorial independence. Today we have a set of new laws that regulates the field of public information and our expectations of them are certainly great. Each of these laws covers general public information rules, as well as specific means and methods of public information. These laws, or better to say the laws of this area, were adopted in the Assembly a dozen years ago. In the meantime, they've been partially changed. However, it is quite evident and certain that the sphere of public information and media through which it is achieved is very dynamic, that these funds are changing very quickly, methods and terminology even faster, and all together must agree with what exists in countries in the environment, EU countries, in order to achieve full compatibility and content, and media, and programmes, and methods of broadcasting, and resources, as well as full independence. A quick and efficient exchange of information in a wider space is certainly a common interest for all of us today. Today we are also passing these new laws that cover huge space in reform terms and are brand-new in this sense. The laws ahead of us are, I can say, one of the bravest reform moves in this area and bring about changes that require us to understand change, to include in these changes, to learn, to adapt, and especially to match knowledge, to match in quality and game in work, because the privatization of the media in this way changes both the position and role of founders, the role of owners, capital, the responsibility of editors, the position of all journalists in this system. In this game, it is unacceptable to blatantly violate the rules on true, dignified information, on the importance of general interest, but also on the dignity of each person, whether public or not. The first association when it says "media" today is tabloidisation, violations of rules, unethicalness, sensationalism, criticism, abuse of media space, depravation of the reputation of individuals. It's inadmissible, it's harmful, so it has to be punishable, when the media are both the prosecutor before the prosecutor, the investigator before the investigator, the judge before the judge. First, people in the media should not be accused, humiliated, or lynched unverified, incorrectly and tendedly. I'm only mentioning the 8th article that we've been talking about here so far. There may be too harsh things, put in words, not to slow down, of course, the right and rule that everyone, especially public figures, must be highlighted in terms of public assessment, but never to destroy the system of what is true, and what is incorrect, what is a media hack, what is an unfounded lynch, what is an accusation of creating personal guilt without a court, because it is a violation of human dignity and ethically irresponsible. To us, by passing these laws, I understand things that way, this is not the point at all. Information must certainly be objective and true, and such abuses must be put in the way. Newspapering has a harmful effect on all people and all forms of life. Our goal is to achieve other effects and other qualities. That is why I support, that is, the SPS parliamentary group, any change that provides professional content, the quality of news and programs that stimulate good emotions and human solidarity, but not fear, uncertainty, because it does not bring good to anyone, and so far it has been too much. The next thing I want to draw attention to, and I find it very important, is the protection of media pluralism. When it comes to this, its great importance is being pointed out everywhere, because in this area it is absolutely not allowed to create a monopoly. It particularly underlines the importance of public, open, versatile, objective information from several centres and various sources. It seems to me that here in this law it may not be clearly defined enough. They are members of 45 to 47 because they are said to be a measuring unit of pluralism, 50% of printed media, or 35% of media space in the field of listening or viewing, and nowhere is it said how, who and what measures that percentage. I don't know that there's an objective, standardised mechanism for it, but it might be measured by a sampled research or otherwise. So I think it may be irrelevant for precision to have a sentence that suggests, however, that one owner can, in that sense, have one national frequency or media. The next thing I would like to draw particular attention to is the law to talk about the establishment of public services at national and regional level, talking about the establishment of a special institution through which to provide information for our citizens in KIM, which I believe is of particular importance. I really want to commend myself, because at one point I lost the media that it was present, so I was even afraid if we weren't going to skip it. So, I absolutely support and I think that this is of great importance, but the law also provides for the existence of the media at local level, especially the way they are founded, funded and co-financed, but I still think that it may have been good, even in the light of the law, that there are also these regional media that are being spoken of, because for example, I believe that local communities at one time can have each local station, but at the same time, for example, those nearby, so I will say Jagodina, Mupria, Kragujevac, Kragujevno, etc., can recognise their regional interest, to join their resources and all other potentials and thus create in due time and its regional central, because this provides exactly what we said at the beginning of the law, that all the means of information and media are approximate to citizens. If we ourselves are consumers of these services and their users, if it is a tendency to participate in their creation ourselves, I don't think this is burning, regardless of what we don't have in the most classic sense of words – the regional organisation of the Serbian state, except for the province and these interests, but for the future, I don't think it will absolutely hurt. The importance of this programme funding could be discussed and I fully respect the approach to this as a particular segment and a specific topic. In doing so, it is important to support local media in order not to lose it by privatising and not to lose those local environments without their content and their ability to participate in it. In any case, I believe that when these laws are passed, there is transparency in spending money, a creative game, better quality of the programme, compliance with EU laws. Certainly, it must not be a law for the sake of the law, but a law that will respect, thereby creating a positive creative, competitive climate, a new quality of information, education, but life. In that sense, we support these laws and we will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6009	The word has a folk emissary, Sanja Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6010	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, we have a set of media laws ahead of us, but I will only talk about one thing today, and not by chance. I have not read this law as a folk MP, but as someone who has done news work in information for years. Of all the previous laws we've had, I think this might be one of the best and there's more reason for that. This is the first law to regulate exactly what the media is, more specifically what they're not. So they're not books, movies, audio-visual content carriers, scientific and professional magazines and internet browsers. This law finally gives far more rights to journalists than they have ever had before, in fact, they have, but I believe that, at least from my experience, they have suffered many consequences. It's exactly regulated by Article 49. The law, which clearly states - cannot stop the journalist's working relationship, reduce contracted earnings or fees, or put him in a more unfavourable position, because he published a true claim and opinion in a public note, as well as because he made his opinion out of the media, as his personal position. Also, in the press business there have been and there have been pressures by editors, but others, that certain information, news or contribution must be done as ordered, and in the end that journalist must be signed on that contribution as if he had received the information himself, and he did not. Article 50 states that a journalist has the right to refuse to execute an editor's order if the order violates regulation, rules of profession and journalistic ethics. This law puts an end to pressuring journalists to work by order and there is no fear, if the editor asks him to do such a thing, he may lose his job. The term used recently by individuals is censorship, but it's precisely those who during the time they were in power most liked to censor, and it's those who were in opposition, individual political officials, but public figures who represented attitudes and opinions that were not in line with those who were in power. I repeat myself, I speak from the experience of journalists, and I've been doing this job for 13 years. The pressure wasn't just on the press, it was on the editors, but that's the past. Now the law clearly defines the ban on censorship. It is therefore very important that the law regulates, that public information is free and is not subject to censorship. So the journalist has the freedom to do his job professionally and without censorship. The media is given the freedom to publish information and views on everything the public, i.e. A citizen, like us, should be on time and fully informed. Also, it is very important that every physical attack on the editor and the journalist is punishable under the law. One principle of this law is the ban on monopoly. This attitude is important, because every citizen has the right to form an opinion on everything that is happening in the country, and that is what can happen through different sources of information and media content. Speaking of banning monopolies, I will rely on a part of the law that regulates the ownership structure in the media, which will be transparent after the adoption of this law and adoption. Why does it matter? It's especially important when it comes to those who work in the media. When, for example, a marketing agency, I will not name it, it has a monopoly and an economic impact, it is clear that it will also edit politics in a particular media. If you stand up to the same, that media house, or it will be shut down, or brought to a minimum existence, and therefore journalists and all the employees of that media house will not receive wages for months, as was the case that continues today, and some will lose their jobs. One of the reasons I left the media is this very material situation, but I am glad that today as a MP, I have the opportunity to point to all the problems that torture journalists and media houses. This law clearly puts itself in the way of all monopolies who for years have been the cause of the poor material situation of media houses, the poor material condition of journalists, while in the meantime they have only been fraught with wealth. In the end, as a special member, I would set aside a ban on public exposure to pornography. We all know that one newspaper sells the front page. However, the newspaper is viewed by children and minors. It's clear how negative it can affect them. So, printed media, i.e. The newspaper will no longer be allowed to have pornographic content on the first and last pages, otherwise a journalist will pay a fine of 50,000 to 150,000 dinars. While I am already on criminal provisions, I will mention some more – if in some information someone is found guilty of the jurisdiction of the verdict or if a picture of a minor is published that could endanger his or her right or interest. I think all those who work in the media know very well that a picture of a minor or his statement must not be used without the permission of a parent. So these are just some of the penalties provided for in this law. Finally, given that two years of work included all relevant experts in the law, that it is in line with all European standards, EU standards, I consider this law perhaps the best in the region, and I say it as a journalist, and as the MP of the Serbian Progressive Party that in the day of voting, I will support a set of these media laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6011	The word has a folk MP, Ivana Dinic, and let the MP Milan Stevanović be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6012	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, a set of proposals for media laws, which are now in the assembly debate, although apparently has no direct impact on the economy and development of our country, actually regulates in a kind of cultural sphere of life, through maintaining cultural identity and developing awareness towards the democratisation of our society in the field of public information. The constant development of technology and the degree of technological achievements has a direct impact on this area of social life, which is very dynamic and is constantly developing. Therefore, the public information system must be consistent with the time in which we live. Namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees freedom of opinion, expression and development of personality, as well as freedom of the media, but that is why it is necessary to define rules that will ensure both freedom and protection, both in the delivery and exchange of information and ideas through the media, in order to improve values such as timelyness, impartiality, truthfulness and fullness of information. From my personal experience and good communication with Minister Tasovac, who was open to every form of co-operation in this set of media laws, I know with confidence that the general public was familiar with all the facts through public hearings and debates that were often led to this topic. Many shortcomings and irregularities have been changed and adapted to the highest international standards and standards of the member states of the European Union. I support the discussion of my colleague Mirjana Dragas in order to bring this set of media laws into line or find a way to adapt to the 2016 media strategy, adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia in September 2011. The question for the minister is whether and how will many provisions of this strategy that are not in line with the provisions of the Bill on Public Media Services, the Proposal for a Law on Public Information and the Media and the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media, which we are discussing today? I would point out the concerns of citizens of the Republic of Serbia south of Belgrade about the degree of information in this area, because by allowing only national and regional public media services to be formed, they would not be in an equal position when it comes to achieving public interest in the area of information at regional and local level, which is contrary to the media strategy by 2016. I would therefore propose to the Committee on Culture and Information, as well as to the Registrar of Amendments to Article 2. Proposal for a law on public media services, Articles 8 and 13 of the same Bill, which should provide for the existence of regional public media services, as regions defined by the media strategy by 2016 include media regions, not territorially established regions. It is therefore important to ask whether it is possible to form regional public services, whose funding would be covered through a subscription similar to the current RTS subscription, while the rules applicable to national and rural public services would also apply to regional broadcasting? The government of the Republic of Serbia has so far achieved great results in all areas of detailed endurance, determination in solving the problem and situation in which our country is located, showing one seriousness in the approach to carrying out tasks and a high degree of responsibility when it comes to achieving the objectives set. Our government is moving in this way, at great speed, to meet those problems that enhance the development of all segments of our citizens' lives. One of the basic ways of functioning the media, which is foreseen by this set of media laws, is participation in public competitions, which are discussed for precisely defined projects. Given the seriousness of the evaluation of projects submitted in the competition, it is very important that we come together to some suggestions that will certainly prove very useful in implementing these competitions, i.e. in the legitimacy of the work of the expert competition commission, such as the definition of educational, professional and other criteria to be met by members of the expert competition commission from the ranks of independent media experts. How much will their work cost? Could an independent expert be a member of one or more expert committees? To whom will the members of the commission account, and what would be the sanctions due to their possible unconscious work? Who will oversee and control the work of committees and many others? What is one of the greatest advantages, let's say, of this set of media laws is to promote transparency in the work of all media, as well as to create sound competition in terms of quality of work in the field of information of public interest in terms of improving objectivity, credibility and truthfulness of reporting. The withdrawal of the state from the media is thus approaching the awareness of our people, standards and regulations with the directives of EU member states. I would point to another very important provision of a bill on public information and media. The bill envisions the withdrawal of the state from the media and privatisations by July 1st 2015. Unfortunately, so far, examples of privatisation in the media sphere have proved unsuccessful. I am convinced that although after 56 failed privatisations, and the only privatisations in the case of radio "Srbobran", I am convinced that the government of the Republic of Serbia with the legislation it won in the last elections, due to the support and trust of citizens due to a high degree of responsibility and complete realization of the objectives set will undoubtedly aim at a balanced development of all parts of Serbia, in particular, to pay particular attention to the privatisation models, which will follow both in this and in other areas. We are all aware that demographic discharge of undeveloped environments is one of the biggest problems in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, we must not allow the information, educational, cultural and entertainment content of media services, which are in fact the level of information of a society, and their application of the degree of development of that society, to make central and southern Serbia, estranged and undeveloped parts of the Republic of Serbia without the right to exercise public interest in that area. In the hope that the competent ministry will respect some of these proposals for promotion and more effective implementation of this set of proposals for media laws, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will, of course, support this set of media laws, as well as all reform laws that will speed up the progress of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6013	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Stevanović. Excuse me, Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6014	As for the competition committees you mentioned, they will therefore have between three and five members and the majority will make up members who have been proposed by media and news associations. However, what I think is very important, so as not to create that wrong impression, so the Public Information Act and the Public Media Service Act are currently treating the right to inform all citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In other words, when we talk about competition commissions, right here, it is very clear that the authorities responsible for public information affairs of the Republic of Serbia, the AP or local self-government are taking a decision on competitions which are being discussed during the calendar year. Once again, I would repeat what has been said several times. The existence of a regional service is not a political but economic issue at the moment. Also at a time when the state's position to withdraw from the media's ownership structure is clear, someone malicious could interpret it as an attempt to avoid privatisation. I am absolutely convinced that through this stable financing of our two public services, and I am sure that they listen very carefully, because I think this is valuable for them to hear what the objections of people from different environments are, that during this year and a half, they will succeed in this stable budget financing that and these contents are being adequately monitored, so that at the moment when the tax required from January 1, 2016, it is not only an obligation, but that people have the awareness that they contribute to their own information and thus build one of the most important institutions of the democratic system, which is public information.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6015	The word is made by MP Milan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6016	The esteemed chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, dear fellow MPs, is a major influence of the electronic media on the public in Serbia. In 2000, as we watched RTS, we thought that honey and milk flow in Serbia, and that was not the case. This public service has not fulfilled what its task was because of this is important and therefore these laws are important. I want to say something immediately concerning the opposition and urgency of this procedure. If someone has a clear vision of what they want to do, then one or two laws can't do it. We must bring all these laws in order to be effective as soon as possible, because one law alone does not bring a set of reform laws. The main lack of our last media law was intransparency. Everywhere in the world, you know exactly who owns what media and there's no problem if someone keeps the interests of the owner. But that wasn't the case here. Someone under the password of neutrality actually owned something and dominated the media. That's what this law decides. On the other hand, public service is, in my opinion, the most important editorial independence. I've run political campaigns for many years. You have three types of time in the media. You have earned time, paid time, where time is earned for what we fight for in the campaign. Let's do a big event, a big rally, and then we see that on public service we're sixth or seventh with three seconds or ten seconds of time we get. The paid time is simple, you pay and you look at yourself and it's all over the world like that. There's another positional time, but we invented another political. There was only one person who had time because he had influence in politics. It's very hard to control. For the next year and a half, we can somehow manipulate the budget financing of the public service. I think that's where we should pay attention. In 2012, I think the editorial inconsistencies were maximum. There was a joke that the president at the time wouldn't let the kids open the chocolate, he appeared out in the open. Most importantly, it was the news of the day on some media. I think that's what we should fight for the most. Another ownership question or electronic question we had on the board. I ask the Minister does he guarantee the implementation of this law? The main thing is law enforcement. Every law is a dead letter on paper. The minister can't guarantee it. We all have to guarantee that, and that we all understand that we are as SNS and as our MP group are the most responsible for implementing this law, because we are dominantly responsible for it. It's rare when someone who has this kind of power to pass a law like this that's completely transparent. Just because of the bad experience we've had in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6017	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Vesna Marjanovic, and let the MP Aleksandra Djurovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6018	Dear Chairman, ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as a member of the Committee on Eurointegration at the outset, I would like to point out that Serbia has committed itself as a candidate for EU membership by signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement to adopt new laws regulating the area of public information in line with the highest European standards. The draft laws that are on the agenda today will be adopted primarily because of the state's regulation, because freedom of opinion and expression is fundamentally human rights. After the completion of the explosive and bilateral screenings for Chapters 2, 10 and 23 in order to continue the accession process, it is necessary to bring media regulations into line with European legislation. A set of media laws we are discussing today aims to regulate public information areas in accordance with Article 11. The EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, Articles 10. European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as with the standards of the European Court of Human Rights. I would also like to mention that these draft laws have been given a positive assessment by the European Commission, which means that the working group that worked on their work has done its job well. When it comes to the proposal for a law on public information and media, the most significant newspapers are the withdrawal of the state from ownership in the media, except in the case of two public services regulated by a special bill, the transparency of ownership in the media through the introduction of a media register, which will clearly see the ownership structure, the definition of a transparent funding system from budgets from different levels of government through the enterprise system of project financing of media and thus establish control of spending. Following the completion of the privatisation process in the media, the state will be able to apply for financial support to those contents that represent public interest in the field of information. Then, regulation of foreign media status and status is also foreseen by this law, and I would particularly highlight part of this law that guarantees special rights to individual categories of persons, which concerns the right to inform persons with disabilities, of course by applying appropriate technology. As far as the proposal for a law on electronic media is concerned, it is clear that new technological achievements require a continuous improvement in legal regulation, as all EU members are obliged to move from analoguely to digital broadcasting by the end of 2015, all of which requires an amendment and addition of legal acts regulating this area. The proposal for a law on public media services provides for the existence of two public services, RTS and RTV, as well as the definition of their way of financing. TV subscription will be cancelled and the state will finance both public services by the end of January 2016, and then the tax will become the only way to finance. This way of funding would ensure the essential independence of these media, which in practice proved to be a successful method for European countries. Finally, the quality of every democratic society is to guarantee freedom of public information, to enable its citizens, without discrimination, to meet the need for timely information from all areas of life. The right of the public to be informed is achieved through the media, and this can be achieved through the free development of independent professional media. The Serbian Progressive Party will support these bill proposals. I call on my colleagues from other parties to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6019	Thank you. I ask the National Assembly to take over the cards of MPs in the electronic system, and MPs are not currently in the O.R. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Djurovic, and let the People's MP Vladica Dimitrov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6020	Today, we have a long-awaited set of media laws, a proposal for a law on public information and media, a proposal for a law on electronic media and a proposal for a law on public media services. I would also like to express my personal satisfaction that we can discuss these laws today and adopt them during this week. These laws are a framework for better informing Serbian citizens in line with the standards and values that exist in EU member states. It is clear that by proposing this set of media laws, the government of the Republic of Serbia primarily wanted to protect the interests of citizens of Serbia, primarily in relation to the issue of the state's exit from ownership in the media, or the privatisation of the media, and also to move from budget to project media funding and what is very important, it is a question of transparency of media ownership. It is extremely important to introduce a media register that will make publicly available data on anyone with more than 5% ownership in a media, as information about the state aid some media are receiving. The state will not be able to favour certain media to report favorably, and every citizen will be able to inform about how much money some medium has received from the state, local self-government, public enterprises. The withdrawal of the state from the media has even been envisaged before, but it has never been implemented. The privatisation process in the media must be completed by July 2015, and after that, media will be able to apply to the state for financial support to those contents that represent public interest in the field of information. What is important is to point out that the proposed laws are fully in line with the European Commission. We were able to listen to concerns about the urgency of the process here, and I cannot agree with that, especially given that media laws have been analysed for many years, that the continuation of the media strategy, which was adopted since 2011. Also, each of these laws had several public hearings, so that when we received these bill proposals, we were in no way surprised by what we could read in them. The issue of media ownership transparency is a problem that has existed for a very long time and was most often abused. It is not surprising that the issue was often raised by international institutions, the European Commission, the OSCE, the Council of Europe. In the past, it was possible even for some leaders of political parties to own the media without citizens knowing anything about it. Now that can't happen anymore, because every medium will have to publish who owns the media, who participated with any financial contributions in certain media, so that we'll be better informed and we'll understand why certain content is placed through certain media. It is also important for our citizens to pay attention to these data, so that they have a critical opinion of the content that is being placed in the given media. The Law on Public Information sets out a principle concerning the making available to the public of media data to establish its own opinion on the credibility and reliability of information, views and opinions published in the media, as well as the view of the possible impact on public opinion and the protection of media pluralism. The legal provisions also provide that holders of public, or political functions are obliged to suffer critical opinions relating to the results of their work and the policy they are conducting. Criticism has never been a problem, healthful criticism can often be a good incentive for better results. What's very important and what we've always appealed to is the truthfulness of the information. Media can often also destroy a person’s life by placing information that is once presented as information from well - informed sources. Often, a trendy presentation in the media without verifying the credibility of such information before that. The media itself creates their own credibility through content that they place, so that when citizens themselves see that some medium repeatedly publishes information that is subsequently being exposed as incorrect information, it will therefore have much more criticism for all the content that such a medium places. The law guarantees freedom of public information and banning censorship, discrimination against journalists, pressure, threats or blackmailing journalists, editors and sources of information. There is no censorship in Serbia today and there is no full freedom of public information, and the best indicator of this is very simple, enough to go to the kiosk and buy all the daily and Sunday newspapers, so we will be able to see a lot of criticism addressed to the work of government members, primarily to the work of Prime Minister Vukic, and this is absolutely impossible in countries where censorship exists. We can also see that a daily newspaper publishes absolutely, not only critical views, but completely untrue information regarding the work of the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. If we remember the period before 2012, it was absolutely not possible to read a negative text about the then Serbian president. A certain Jesse from the presidency controlled the whole procedure so it wouldn't come to some information being placed, which they didn't want to know about. Jesse or Jasmina Stojanov, since I see that some of the MPs of the opposition are so uninformed who Jesse is. If you are uninformed, Jesse is Jasmina Stojanov and we are like SNS, then the opposition party, very often talked about it, because we knew very well how much all possible SNS activities cannot be released in any media, especially in the media that were financed by Serbian citizens. I sincerely hope that this set of media laws, which gives journalists a lot of freedom, will affect that much forgotten investigative journalism will be more active again, because, in some initial period, it may not seem worth it, I think it's the most rewarding in the longer run. It is very important that these laws are adopted at a time when the screenings are related to the chapters concerning the media have been completed and we have already received a number of commendations from senior EU officials on the laws we adopt. Also, a monitoring report on Serbia is under way at the Council of Europe's Assembly and was just waiting for a set of media laws to enter the report. This set of media laws regulates the media sphere in line with European standards, so I will be very pleased to vote in favour of all three draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6021	Thank you. The People's MP Vladica Dimitrov has the word, and let the MP Vladimir Djukanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6022	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the media law sets go, we've heard a lot from the Minister himself and the previous speakers. For a long time, the Media Act has been in public debate and the expert and general public has given a positive opinion and news associations, so I would pay particular attention to the very part of the law relating to electronic media in local self-government, especially where members of national minorities live. In fact, the law provides for the privatisation of media by July 2015, which are the founders of local self-government, and in case the media itself does not find its buyer on the market, the package of actions is turning into employees' hands. On the other hand, the law also stipulates that the media buyer, which broadcasts the programme in the language of national minorities, must keep the programme scheme for the next five years. In the middle with a number of residents, where the media is mostly market-oriented and where they can find their buyer, this law allows members of national minorities to have information in their native language. But I must say that national minorities with a small number of small-scale members in which the medium itself does not operate marketably, so it is not market-oriented, which will almost certainly not find its buyer by 2015, and which has no perspective that it can remain even after 2015, there may be a problem. In fact, the law predicted that national councils could be the founders of the media, in terms of the founders of public institutions, companies or foundations. Also, the law predicted that local self-governments in the middle with the majority minority population could co-finance the media programme up to 80% of the value of media production. However, these relations are not strictly defined and I did not want to try to amend this law, since I know that there is a good intention for the promoters to be seen by national minorities, especially in these small areas. It is true that we will come to a specific relationship that in some normal circumstances where the founder, and that would be in this case a national council, and a financier, and in that case it would be a local self-government, if they had normal and good relations, there would be no problem financing these local media broadcasting programmes in the language of the national minority. However, I would suggest that only the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, where the rights of minorities are ultimately tried in a way by a sublaw or by a government regulation to define exactly the means of funding and resources needed, just so that the media in those small areas, with a national mixed population, can survive beyond 2015. So I hope that, in accordance with these positive regulations and the desire to hear, of course, the media that broadcast the programme in the language of national minorities, I hope that this will be accepted in some future period and, of course, not only because of that, but because of absolutely one reform law, I will vote in favour of this set of media laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6023	Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic has the word, and let the MP Biljana Ilic Tosic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6024	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I'm going to start my presentation with a single call, because we're constantly listening here that there's supposed to be some kind of car censorship, although it's one senseless term, because obviously someone is insulting the press, so I guess he's trying to say that journalists want to try to write the text, and then they pull it themselves. I really don't understand what journalist he's doing, but obviously that's what happened here in our society, such a pointless term. Indeed, I would now invite all my fellow journalists, since I have shared this bread with them for many years and I know how hard it is to live as a journalist today, it is almost impossible to live as a journalist, so I call on them to write very freely, to necessarily criticise the government, to necessarily criticise the work of the prime minister, to necessarily criticise the work of ministers, to necessarily criticise all of us MPs, because this society needs it. There's nothing to be afraid of. They're free to take it out, because we're not here for God's sake if we're not subject to criticism, but rather on the contrary. If one of us gets caught in crime, let them write about it. The public is obliged to know if one of us, God forbid, had his hands in the jam and should write it. And even if they make something up, we don't have the right to be angry with them, we're public figures, and we owe it to each other to put up with it. We only ask them to allow us to have a denial, but we have no right to be angry with the press. Feel free to write, this is one free country, except now we'll finally know who's behind some text or who's playing a certain text in some electronic media or radio, because we'll finally know the ownership structure. I think that's the most important thing, because so far, many have used the media and abused them, so no one has any idea who owns the media, so it turns out that in the end some former president of a party with his marketing agency is a co-owner with one tycoon of a media, through which he places certain information. That's not possible now. Now you're even obliged to report a complete ownership structure under the Information Act, and even if you have 5% of all co-ownerships, all of your daughter companies are obliged to report which ones are there, so we'll know who's behind the text and what was his motive. As far as their fellow journalists are concerned, I ask them to be as free as possible and as much criticism as possible to put it at the expense of the government, because it's good for the government and because no government is good if there's no good criticism. As far as all these three laws are concerned, it is obvious that the only opponents who seem to have changed course from one without a little divine towards the EU have now gone to another side entirely. They do not seem to like such laws, and these are the laws that the EU has praised and said they are extraordinary. Otherwise, I thank my colleagues from NDS for being very correct on the Committee and their representative, Ms. Branka Karavidic, was very constructive and said they were excellent laws. So I really thank her for this. The first thing I liked about this place, Mr. Secretary, was to define what the media is. Since we've been here all the time talking about how there's censorship on the Internet, right? This law defines the Internet, the state has no influence on the Internet. So, people, write freely on the Internet whatever you want unless, of course, it enters the domain of some criminal-legal liability, if someone is not calling for the collapse of constitutional order or, I don't know, some terrorist action but it's already a problem for the police, and not of course for the state. People write freely on the Internet. I am a big supporter of all public figures having their own profile, whether on Twitter, whether on Facebook on these social networks, because you are obliged to respond to the people what people think of you, even if it is sometimes very ugly. Only, of course, I'm not a fan if he catches someone and he swears to you, but there are people like that. As far as criticism and response are concerned, the controversy, the MP and any public figure are obliged to respond, of course, to the people, or to the citizens, to what they ask through social networks, and I am one of the big fans and supporters of it and I am a participant of all debates on social networks. The second thing, of course, I already mentioned the ownership structure. We've been yelling for years for this. We've had situations here to say someone opens up some media, and then since they don't pay taxes, they don't pay anything to shut down that same newspaper and open up another company. Right? And then again, the owner of that same media is just changing. This law has made it impossible. In the future, we will have to know every change in the ownership stake in some media, which is very commendable and we will finally know who is actually behind certain texts or, of course, behind certain contributions. Also, I have to point out, there's always someone here talking about some kind of media link, about the impact on the press. This law defines it as such. No one can influence a journalist to publish a text if he doesn't. For such a thing, you can bear sanctions, there is no possibility of direct or indirect influence. We were obviously divided into two categories of journalists here. To those you were able to repress whatever you wanted, because they were not like the authorities and about them when someone was oppressing them, no one could write about them. We have, and today it happens, let's say, but on the other hand, for example for some of our journalists, it's going to take you for protection, although I am, of course, a supporter, every journalist has to be protected. Let's just say, we had a regular situation of beating up a journalist, specifically talking about my colleague, Dejan Andjus, who was beaten up in front of his job. One day there was talk about it, although it is one of the biggest critics of the SNS, it is indeed one of the greatest critics, but we can see that already some of the media that are under control today, so in some way the opposition no longer wants to say it. So what's changed? Why? Because fellow Anjus didn't exactly agree to be on their side. Then we have two categories, one is privileged, the other is not. It's a really ugly practice. I personally experienced, since I was on the other side during the regime led by Mr. Tadic, I personally experienced as many times as you wanted various kinds of threats, but you know, it's an integral part of the job. However, if he had ever complained in his life, no one wanted to write a single word about it. Because that's when it didn't work out. I'm glad that this law prevents the influence of marketing agencies in some way on the media, because we had a really amazing situation that here a marketing mag, in fact the two of them, but first this one that was the party president, has just been through advertising affecting how some media will report. Then you had an incredible situation to say from 2008 to 2012 about his work, about working while he was mayor of Belgrade, you shouldn't have written a single letter critically, because if you wrote it, it would shut down your media, because he wouldn't give you an ad from his marketing agency. We all know that the media lives in denial. When you don't get the commercial, you're free to turn off the media. It really happened that way and it's really ugly that something like that happened and now that someone's been censoring for so many years and I don't know what they decided to write about him, then it's a disaster, then it's really scary now and there's a campaign going on. For the full four years he's been here, the media hasn't been allowed to write a letter about him. In doing so, he abused one of the city's TVs that we all pay for, I'm talking about "Study B". The Serbian Progressive Party is a party that won in 2012 and from 2008 to 2012 no one was allowed to come to Study B. I said, that's the TV we all paid for. Please, don't ever let such things happen again. I'm listening here to criticism about the RRA, so I can tell about them as much as you want criticism and that's defined by this electronic media law. All these members of the RRA were elected by the opposite side, from the first to the last and none were removed, as none of the members of the RTS Management Board were removed, and someone is telling us today about some censorship. Excuse me, which censorship someone can even talk about when no single journalist has been moved from that television, when no single editor there has been moved, when absolutely all the members of the RRA have stayed at their jobs and no one has told them anything and they are still doing their job. We even heard that someone here said that the RRA had been tightened in corruption. That's what the people who chose that RRA say. I'm asking you now, did Gordana Susha make corruption too? We didn't choose her from the SNS, she chose the other side. Did the bishop of Portfiria limit corruption? Really amazing things we've heard here. I must commend you for one more thing about the Law on Electronic Media, this is for cross-border channels. We have indeed had an incredible situation that the foreign programme that is being broadcast here is taking commercials, making money from Serbia and paying no taxes. The damage is our media, and there's damage to the state. I'm glad you finally defined this law and it's not possible anymore. You can't, of course, play commercials when you think of it especially if you're a foreign program and don't pay the state for anything that's really amazing. I think that's a good thing that's been regulated. I have to say about the television subscription. There are three ways of functioning public services. The first way is either that subscription or the fee for that media to live on. We saw that as far as the subscription itself was concerned, it went badly. Another way is to keep it on the state budget, but people need to know that the state is pulling out of all the media. I welcome that the state is withdrawing from all media and I am a big fan of the private media because I consider competition and the market to be something that brings a good programme. The third thing is to shut down the public service, and I believe it's not in anyone's interest and it's completely insane and pointless, so you're left with these two options. One is to find a way to fund it. I think a tax is a very good solution if you've already said it's going to be up to 500 dinars make sure it's as low as possible, don't make it 500 dinars. Because it is a burden for our citizens. Anyway, these are great laws. It's an extraordinary way to regulate media space. The media market is extremely regulated. Outstandingly regulate the way media owners act and what they must of course do. Protecting journalists get really good protection. I don't think anyone can object to this unless he's completely maliced. After all, all the news associations have praised these laws. Of course, with great joy I will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6025	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Biljana Ilic Stosic, and let the MP Irena Alexic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6026	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, media laws whose proposals we have today should serve as an institutional basis and a basis for the start of the arrangement of opportunities, and especially the difficulties that have accumulated in the field of public information for the past few decades. The media transition has so far been followed by more attempts at system editing, but we have witnessed, giving effects that have not been favourable to better public information or raising the degree of media freedoms, consistent with all the basic aspects of the journalistic profession. I do not want this opportunity to repeat all those in public but many times mentioned reasons why these laws should be passed as soon as possible, such as transparency of ownership and financing of the media in general, the introduction of mechanisms for quality media financing that have the status of public services. In all of this, in the meantime, we received several conflicting views. On the one hand, we have citizens who have the right to timely full and true information, but also the right to choose as many quality offers as possible on the media market that should not be monopolised. On the other hand, we have media employees who fear for the future of their professional engagement, especially if they are engaged in public services or local media. The third only conditionalally said side makes a state that wants and has to be free of any, in accordance with European standards, more direct interference in the media sphere. And finally, we have local self-government that, in addition to the right to establish local media, has an increasingly difficult commitment to adequately finance them. In this conglomerate, by the nature of things, a lot of opposing and mutually exclusive interests, we will have to choose the right measure, and the main guideline should be the goals that these laws must begin to achieve and the standards that they must meet. Our practice so far shows unequivocally that it will not and cannot be an easy job and a quick process, but with clearing the sea. This is what we are bound by the state that has long pointed to the unsustainability of current practice, and it is such that it generates a number of problems that threaten to completely destroy exactly what media media media followers are most up to, and that is the right to do their job in accordance with the professional code and all the bright principles on which journalism is theoretically founded. Media houses in general, and editors-in-chiefs and journalists in particular, must not be tents for paid ads, to ensure the continued survival of their offices and their jobs, after all. They are often forced to work by order because their existence depends on advertisers. Wherever these advertisers come from, private capital, formal or informal power centers, and even from a criminalized and corrupt mile. Is there a greater degradation of the journalistic profession than it is allowed to allow the born through the media to be broken, ordered and targeted information, which, whether we like it or not, is a major source of public opinion, and affects the awareness and will of the citizens. The second story is the quality of local media, especially municipal and city television. They are in the largest majority of the rights of transmission of local political powers that hold their paws on the register from which these same local media are financed, however scarce and almost empty they are. In addition to destroying the reputation and dignity of the journalistic profession, this is where standards of the same profession are particularly affected, journalists are becoming more and more forum reporters following what local authorities assume they want, in which they are often overplayed in the amount of exaggeration, and become deguant not only to the citizens, but also to those who are semitronic. In doing so, they are not only destroying their own personal indignity, but also the reputation of the entire profession that they apparently went completely astray in. In such circumstances, of course, the most high-quality journalists suffer the most, because they generally do not have the stomach to play by the given beat, and so they rarely retreat to a journalistic average or sub-average, falling increasingly into the resignation and leaving their directorships to the ready half-intelligents. After all, the editorial basket is an insurmountable barrier and truthfulness becomes an overrated category. In addition to the personal dramas that are undeniable, the citizens who do not get what they need are the most affected, and what they have already paid out of their pocket. On the other hand, we have a so-called. The commercial media, who have seen their market position across the board, have, however, understood, in the race for ratings, the sale of circulation, or advertisers, and we are witnessing the collapse of all possible standards, not just professions, but also the steep descent of good taste limits. Whether commercial or not, the media, apart from the obligation to be profitable and to have a sustainable business, play essentially the most important social role that can be called educational or enlightening, if you want to. They have no right to simplify, not to say pollute public space, racing in the amount of banality and vulgarity in the fight for as many consumers as possible. After all, they're just sending a message about what they think of citizens and their good taste, more specifically tastelessness. A special story is media independence compared to their finances. It's not a road bar with a simple rule – whose money, it's also music. Things are much more complicated in nature and it is hardly possible to resolve them in due course to the general well-being. Besides, it didn't work out for much more developed societies than it did for us. Some standards still have to be set. Our citizens, burdened with material poverty, fear the proposed model of public service financing that will be translated from the subscription system into a level of duty with a higher level of obligation. So, it will be modelled everywhere in the world, with a proposal from the Secretary-General that such a tax should not exceed 500 dinars and start in 2016. Until then, in addition to the growth of standards that I deeply believe in, children must also be rationalized in public services. Whether we need them or not, the real question is what kind of public service we need. Secondly, as many of them and at what level of organisation, and thirdly, perhaps most importantly, which we are able to finance in the long-term and sustainable manner, with the obligation to invest in technical and technological and other qualitative improvements, not just in employee earnings. Median followers in all of this and in some other way must show that they are true at the level of the profession they have decided to be consistent allies of citizens and society, who must not be hostage to their arrest at all costs. Besides, journalism isn't about to get rich. Journalists are, in fact, civil servants and promoters and promoters of social progress in general, and in detail, however naive or utopian it sounds. Because of the huge role that the media play in every society, which seeks to develop and advance, I will support the proposed legal texts, which my SNS will do and I call on all colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6027	The word is a folk letter from Irena Alexic, and let the People's Parliament of Olena Papuga be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6028	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, today we are discussing an extremely important set of media laws aimed at, above all, strengthening transparency and independence in the media, but also improving professionalism in this area. The proposed set of laws will also bring something beyond what was necessary, which is clarity, when it comes to media ownership, which was necessary, given the existence of very complex and very complex relations that exist between politics, business and the media. What I would particularly refer to in my presentation is that this set of proposed laws, in particular, insists on the protection and safety of journalists, which I think is very good, but also on protecting the dignity of a person, which I hope will break some practice so far that in the media, and the maltenes could be published anything, different truths, then half-truths that sometimes can be more dangerous than complete untruths, and that sometimes even permanently destroys someone's reputation, and that almost no one is responsible for that. With this bill very precise, it is precise in which situations it is allowed and justified to provide information from someone's private life, and also very detailed and precise sanctions are given if this legal provision is violated. What the paper first appears in the law, what I would especially praise is that the first time is protected is the right of the victim of violence, it is precisely defined by Article 79. I think it was also necessary because it is the only way to protect the dignity of the victim of violence, and also to prevent the different kinds of sensationalism that is unfortunately more than present in our media. In addition to protecting the victim's dignity, it is helped practically because the victim of violence has suffered one trauma now practically has to face another trauma, which is that in the media there are various details of the unnecessary detail which and how they make the victim's position even worse. Another newspaper is a provision that regulates the publication of information concerning the ongoing criminal proceedings. The publication of this information will now be allowed, but only after the same information has been published in the main search. This is practically the only way to give the defendant a fair and impartial trial, not to blame himself or to create any picture, either positive or negative, which is not based on some real evidence. Also, legal clauses provide protection for minors, then banning hate speech. It's precisely defined by article 75 where it is very detailed, precisely determined exactly what is meant by hate speech. When it comes to criminal policy, which is above all, to point out the preventive character, what's new is that now a person whose private life has released some information, and this information has injured his personal dignity, now has the right to sue the publisher and to seek practically a portion of the profits obtained by publishing that same information. Then, something else regarding the rights of journalists, there are legal provisions that give the right to a journalist's secret, that a journalist doesn't have to reveal the source of information, of course, if that information and that information are not related to a criminal offence, or perpetrator of a crime. Then, journalists have, of course, the freedom to establish journalistic associations. They also have the right to refuse certain executions of a certain order, if they consider that the warrant is not in line with journalistic ethics. Then, when the position of foreign media in our country is at stake, of course it was necessary to regulate this area, the rights and obligations of foreign media in our country, this set of laws, means giving them the same rights, the same obligations as domestic media. Of course, I say once again that it was necessary to do so because some of the legal provisions that applied to this area are and how outdated they are, simply are not in the process of some emerging situations, so that this area was and how it should be arranged. At the very end, what I would point out is that this set of laws insists on a single free, professional journalism and what it would particularly point out, that there is no and no censorship in the state of Serbia and therefore, in the day to vote, this set of laws will receive support from the Serbian Progressive Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6029	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milena Bijanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6030	Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, much of the day and most days we spent talking about an extremely important set of laws today, and I'm afraid that sometimes we're not fully aware of the importance of the media, the importance of the media laws we're making today, and I'm saying all of this for the reasons that we're about to consolidate our democracy for which we need to make a lot more effort, make a lot of good decisions and make a lot of right decisions. Today I speak somehow, Minister, in a double capacity, given that I am a much longer consumer of the media than I am a MP, and I really do have a distant memory in that sense. I remember that I didn't like the media that pressured me in any way or the journalists in any way, to accept the idea, the suggestion, the thought, the proposal, whatever, I liked to be left with space to think about, to be able to conclude and to make my own decisions. In that sense, I understood these legal proposals, and for the reason that I understood them so, I will, of course, vote for them because I believe that the best at this time in Serbia, in the times that will come, when these laws or individual members will change, and who will be able to contribute to the overall development of society, because the role of the media is in this role, whether these laws will be absolutely as good as we want and as we hope or something less, time will show, but most of all, that is how much of this society has the basic principles on which all human rights rest, and one of those that I would mention at this time are the right to free expression and opinion. Of course free expression and opinions are not, to say the need not to be a sign of equality, but I want to believe that Serbia is going that way and I will, of course, be an MP, as well as my parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia in absolutely that direction to advocate. The century we live in, the 21st century is the century of the Information Revolution. I don't know what's faster, I'd say we're speeding up a way, or in a very fast way we come up with information, the information is multiplied daily, we're not always ready to tell them clearly, to analyze them, to critically approach them, which is why we're not often in the dilemmas of what decisions to make, and when we talk about our present, sometimes we're in a dilemma whether we have enough time to understand the messages from this Parliament, or outside of Parliament from the general public, with the desire of course, in the best way to support them or one engaged approach and critical consideration to improve them in order to benefit, again, just our community. What I am particularly interested in when we talk about these media laws is something about media education, that is, media literacy, the state's media strategy has given itself the task, as well as public "political" has defined in this regard in the fight for the development and promotion of the media and in general all means of communication. I think that, Mr. Minister, you have, I would say, personal credibility, I think that the public perceives you as a man who is avant-garde, quick, insightful, I believe that you would understand very well why it is important for this society to become, apart from the knowledge society and the society of media education. I believe that together with the Ministry of Education, you will make your full contribution to making a move in that sense. Of course there are different interpretations of the dilemma in which we can achieve this goal. I don't want to scare anyone, especially my fellow professors, or students who are on vacation, or their parents, to say, I need to introduce a new subject, it doesn't matter whether it's an electoral object, whether it's a new one, or whether it's a new one, let's say the Huk that our education will achieve until the implementation of the strategy of the targets planned by 2020. What is necessary is to sharpen the senses of young people, that in one critical, conscious, and active way they receive information that is on all sides surrounded. I think they're attacking more than that. They are young, unselective, and very often at a crossroads between school and family left alone in solving a number of dilemmas and hence a number of challenges and problems that can happen. In this sense, I appeal that one of the important tasks that will follow the safe adoption of this set of laws, indeed, Ministers, do everything and do everything we can to help this society get quality media education so that they can engage in democratic processes critically, because the processes concern all of us. All of this that we're talking about today, the way we analyze it, the way we criticize it is part of our experience. You believe me, while I was at the head of an educational institution, I was most afraid of media scandal, because I know that in any crisis situation no one would give me a chance to make arguments, but it would mostly be labelling, and that's why I'm glad to see that in this law we're talking about protecting a person's dignity. I want these principles to be absolutely fulfilled. I'm very happy and I support that we talk about protecting the personality of young people, about the dignity of young people, but again, ministers, I remind them, let's first help them learn what their rights are and how to protect themselves and how to recognize when someone's personal integrity threatens them. This task is not easy, but it will certainly contribute to a spiritual and moral restoration of our society, after which I am sure that next time we talk about media laws, we will be less critical, less concerned, and more confident that our proposals and our solutions will be of quality and will further improve, it will return to what I wanted to say, which is to improve human freedom, to freedom of opinion and public expression. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6031	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6032	By working on the draft of this law, we've kind of been copying everything that goes in our second and third steps, which is, of course, in addition to making sublegal acts, and strengthening media literacy. What I must tell you in the framework of the project to strengthen media freedoms, which the Ministry of Culture and Information is conducting together with the EU Delegation here in Belgrade, this team of European experts even has its offices in the Ministry of Culture and Information. We've already talked a lot about these next steps just about media literacy. In that sense, in addition to consulting with them, we had a whole series of meetings with the Ministry of Education, and we also included representatives of media associations, so I fully agree with you how important these next steps are. I say again, every time there goes the arrangements of any sphere from that first step, which is the adoption of laws that are clear, transparent and consistent with what are the best European traditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6033	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Andrejevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6034	Dear Ministers, the President-in-Office, fellow MPs, are proposed to pass this set of media laws, namely the Law on Public Information and Media, the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Public Media Services by emergency procedure, because of the need to bring the media regulation of the Republic of Serbia into line with EU rules. The screenings for Chapters II, X and XXIII have been completed and it is necessary to have harmonised media regulations with European legislation to continue the accession process. Access to EU funds under the Creative Europe project is conditional upon the adoption of a new media regulation. The proposal for the adoption of these media laws fully fulfils the obligations arising from the provision of the agreement and the transitional agreement relating to the normative content of the rules. It also fully respects the envisaged deadline for the adoption of the mentioned laws and is the third quarter of the current year 2014. These laws are in line with the following EU rules: the Treaty establishing the EU, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Coordination of the provisions provided for in the laws and other regulations in the Member States on the provision of audiovisual media services. Full compliance has only not been reached with regard to provisions which are of such nature that only the Member State that is a member of the EU can implement them. The adoption of a roof service law by the competent ministry in the area of trade, as well as the adoption of planned legal and sublegal acts in the field of public information, will bring full harmonisation to all EU regulations. A professional analysis of the bill was carried out by a European Commission expert. All objections, suggestions and suggestions have been incorporated into the text of the draft law. For the development of democratic relations in society, the public information system has special importance and is regulated by law. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees freedom of opinion, expression and freedom of the media. The law provides and protects freedom of delivery, application and exchange of information, views and opinions through the media and protects citizens' right to accurate and timely information. A huge impact has different technical and technological achievements. Up until now, the applicable Public Information Act was adopted in 2003, and to the most extent, it followed international standards, but standards changed, improved. The implementation showed certain shortcomings and irregularities and certain areas of public information were regulated by other laws and the need for the existing law to be changed, i.e. to be replaced by a new one. A strategy for the development of the public information system in the Republic of Serbia was adopted by September 2011. Bringing the Strategy was one of the key conditions for the Republic of Serbia to gain EU membership candidate status on March 1st 2012. In the context of the law, the necessary objectives have been set out, which I single out: the withdrawal of the state from the media, in particular in certain cases, the necessity of clear definition of public interest, transparency of ownership in the media. Electronic media plays a significant role in the public information system. New technical achievements mean that all EU member states must move from analogue to digital broadcasting by 2015, that software content providers in digital space are viewed as providers of audio-visual media services, not as broadcasters so far, to introduce new audio-visual media services. That the now applicable Radio Diffusion Act was passed in 2002. Meanwhile, ISO standards have been improved. Practice has shown certain shortcomings in these legal solutions. Switching to the digital signal and the issue of audio-visual media services has led to the necessity of going to a new law and being replaced by a new one, which would catch up with new times and trends in the field of electronic media. The Action Plan for the implementation of the Strategy for which an 18-month deadline has been envisaged provides for the establishment of a proposal for a law regulating the area of electronic media. From the objectives to be achieved by this law, I set out: the need for regulatory regulation of work, the competence and tasks of the regulatory body in the field of electronic media, the need to define and determine the type of audio-visual media services in accordance with the EU Directive. Public media services in the Republic of Serbia were established in 2002. The Law on Broadcasting, as a broadcasting institution of Serbia and as a broadcasting institution of Vojvodina. These two public media services began in 2006. Public media services must have a public interest in meeting the information and communication needs of individuals and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The impartiality and independence of information and diversity of programme content must comply with the highest ethical and international standards. The law creates opportunities for public media services to develop in a new technological environment and for their programmes to be available on different platforms. The law must ensure the independence of the media service, an appropriate stable system of public service financing, public service access to all relevant electronic communications networks - ground, satellite, cable, internet and others, in order to make its software content available to the largest number of citizens. I know of the drive of many local communities that there are regional public services, and that is what the Minister on behalf of the Government has explained to us, and many fellow MPs have tried to touch the subject. In particular, I come from Nis, and I know that there was great support in making so-called Nis. regional public services. In fact, 35 thousand Niš citizens supported, with their 21-day signature, the transformation of low television into a regional public service. Three times the City Hall even mentioned a referendum. The support was given by the Niski University, the university dean, the Nis academics, most Nis MPs, the regional Chamber of Commerce, the Southeast Serbian cluster, the employers' association, public figures, athletes, actors, musicians, scientists, university professors, intellectuals, cultural institutions, trade unions. I know and I received as an MP and our position down in the southeast of Bulgaria's nearest national minority, which is not satisfied with the way media national minorities are financed because, it says, they do not guarantee the survival of minority media. They believe the new bill continues to deepen the division of national minorities and say it creates unequal opportunities and creates an unreal development of minority communities. I've also received accounts of some who say 5% of what they're getting, and RTS could finance six regional public services. They say the TV has 1,450, but the low one, the case works, 86 employees. I also received how much individuals received in 2012, as much as they received in TV, says – 244 thousand dinars, and during that time in Low TV, the average is 26,000 dinars. I also received expected proposals to amend individual members, which require, above all, that public services be established on a republican, regional, regional and local level, which even propose a funding system, that 2% be singled out from the local community on behalf of public information and that these funds be shared later, 60% finance of regional public services and 40% by project financing of commercial content. There are a lot of other memos, a bunch of paper in front of me, and I read a bunch of paper on that basis. But I trust the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I trust the minister who explained the law and who said it is the headquarters of a public service in Belgrade, but that it is the public service of the Republic of Serbia, that it is the public service of all citizens living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, both those in Belgrade and those in Nis, and in all other parts of Serbia, where we heard initiatives for the existence of regional services. I believe that for the intended fee, which will be in place of a subscription under the new law, the public service of the Republic of Serbia will represent the interests of all of us living in Serbia and give information to all of us and that there are no objections that citizens in the south or east will listen only to what street in Belgrade the works are being carried out. I believe that the system will be found and that it will be monitored further possibly, I know that nothing is perfect, and now with this bill of legal solutions, great savings have been made and will be made, but that the system will be found so that all citizens of Serbia are equally represented and equally informed. Once again, I trust the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I trust the proposed law issued by the present minister, so that I and my parliamentary group in the voting day will give full support to these legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6035	Thank you. The word of the people is Mirjana Andric; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Nebojsa Tatomir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6036	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is today ahead of us a set of media laws governing the Serbian media scene in a new, more quality and more transparent way. There are three laws – the Law on Public Information and Media, the Law on Public Media Services and the Law on Electronic Media. All of these laws are the result of a very broad debate, which was held for two years, supported both by the OSCE and EU member states. EU delegation to Serbia head Michael Davenport said the adoption of a set of media laws would be a major shift in compliance with European standards and announced that a Commission report on the screening of Chapter 10, relating to the media sphere, will soon be known. The Law on Public Information and Media defines the exit of the state from the media. The privatisation of the media should be completed by 1 July 2015. The Agency for Economic Registers registered 1320. That number should privatize 81 media. The facts suggest that there are many more private media on the market, which are trying to survive, so the new law will give everyone a chance to start from the same position. If these media are not privatised by the deadline, the law stipulates that the issuer's capital is privatised by the transfer of employees' shares without compensation. If employees do not accept the transfer of free shares, the medium shall be shut down and deleted from the Register. So far, media ownership has been a top secret, so media owners were both politicians and businessmen, including people from criminal structures, and via media ownership, money of suspected origin was laundered from various exotic islands. In order to prevent this, the new law introduces a media register in the APR, and all media data is available to all interested entities. In order to achieve media pluralism and transparency of the ownership structure, data on legal and natural persons who directly or indirectly have more than 5% share in the issuer’s founding capital are recorded in the media register, as well as all data on their related persons. The law on public media services abolishes TV subscription, but introduces a fee. RTS and RTV will be financed from the budget by the end of 2016. A new model of funding, a tax, is introduced to overcome the shortcomings of the previous funding method, as the percentage of the billing of TV subscription has dropped below 30%. Unlike the subscription, the tax is a legal obligation that represents practice in all countries of Europe. The tax to be paid from January 2016 will be 500 dinars, and its growth will be aligned with the growth of the price index to little. Payments for fees are sent directly by public services to users. Serbian Radio Television and Vojvodina Radio TV will have to build a user base, as all ED numbers users, who are about three million and 200 thousand in Serbia, have the obligation to pay a fee. Data on persons who are due to pay taxes will be collected from the MUP, the Tax Administration and the EPS, and the government will bring an act that will be more precise on this area within 90 days. From paying a fee to watch TV programs will be excluded schools, hospitals, associations of disabled persons, housing institutions of socially endangered, owners of non-use facilities that pay taxes at another address. The law provides for another way of financing the media – competing with projects for budget funds, and this way the media can provide even 80% of the necessary resources for work. The papers that pass the proposed laws, which we are discussing today, are putting order into our country's media scene and will therefore support the proposed set of media laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6037	Thank you. The Messenger of the people has the word, the messenger of the people, Nebojsa Tatomir; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Jovica Jevtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6038	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. We have a set of media laws in front of us today. I must start by saying that the Ministry of Culture has done a really good job and that the proposed laws meet all the standards of a modern society and that, as such, they are in line with the EU and the Council of Europe directives. It should be stressed that audio-visual policy is one of the major EU policies and that the EU has identified a new regulatory framework for the provision of these services through the European Parliament and the Council Directive on the provision of audio-visual media services. Since the Republic of Serbia has gained EU candidate status, this directive has simply imposed the need to bring the legislation of the Republic of Serbia into line with the standards set out therein. This can explain the adoption of these laws in an emergency procedure, as well as the access to European funds. Today, we have a proposal for a law on public information and media that is much better than before. We have before us proposals for laws that create conditions for the free development of independent professional media and media systems that should enable the highest satisfaction of citizens' needs, without discrimination, with information and content from all areas of social life. One of the very important newspapers adopted by the Proposal for a Law on Public Information and Media is transparency in the ownership structure of the media, as the law provides for the establishment of a media register that will contain data on legal and natural persons who directly or indirectly have more than 5% share in the founding capital of the issuers, data on their connected persons, as well as data on other publishers in which those persons have more than 5% share in founding capital. In addition, public data on the amount of money allocated to the media on behalf of state aid, i.e. the amount of money received by the authorities under which the state authorities and authorities of territorial autonomy, the bodies of local self-government units, organisations entrusted with the exercise of public authority are included. All of this will allow Serbian citizens to have better insight into who owns the media and what their impact on the media image is in the state, and authorities not to allow the existence of a monopoly in the media. The law also defines the public interest in the field of public information, which is also very important and I don't think we have had it so far, which is the truthfulness, impartiality, timely and complete informing of all citizens, as well as members of national minorities, informing in the Serbian language of members of Serbian people living outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, preserving the cultural identity of Serbian people and national minorities, informing people with disabilities and other minority groups, supporting the production of media content in order to protect and develop human rights and democracy, improving the rule of law and social state, free development of personality and protection of children and young people. The proposed law also provides for the transfer from direct budget financing of individual media to a project, i.e. competitive co-financing system for all media and media publishers enrolled in the media register for entrepreneurs registered for the production of media content, as well as other legal entities. Project co-financing is also open to independent productions, associations of citizens, as well as other entities that are not media founders. This is ultimately the withdrawal of the state from the media, as the bill also defines a transparent system of funding in the area of public information from the budget from different levels of public authorities. One part of the media houses, mostly those financed by local self-government and which did not change owners in the first wave of media privatisation that took place several years ago, will have to be privatised by July 1st 2015. The law stipulates that unless the capital of these media is sold by that period, the process of selling capital is suspended, and the issuer's capital is privatised by the transfer of shares to employees without compensation, which means that employees will become owners of their media and will be able to manage their own business and, of course, compete as such for financial resources that will be directed through a project, or competitive, media co-financing system. In practice, this means that, for example, local televisions will be able to compete in local self-governments which are also the founders of these local media for, for example, the production of an information programme. Of course, local self - administrations will then determine whether they need an information program or not, which is then a chance to produce another program. In any case, employees in local media can become if there is no privatisation, and owners of their houses. The proposal for a law on electronic media provides for the mandatory participation of the domestic production programme through the obligation of the share of European audio visual works, which says that the broadcaster is required to ensure that European audio visual works participate with more than 50% in the overall annual published programme. This is a new term that has been introduced into this law, mostly due to compliance with European laws, which in any case will certainly allow easier access to non-small European funds and are set for audio visual works. It will, of course, make it easier for domestic productions to participate in European co-productions. Here I would just suggest to Mr. Minister, that perhaps some sublaw act determines from these 50% that televisions are obliged to broadcast European audio visual works, for example 70% are just domestic production emissions. The law states that under the broadcasting of this programme are prime ministers and only the first reruns, so that there are no reruns. The proposal for a law on public media services provides for the introduction of public service financing through a fee to be paid by citizens of Serbia from 1 January 2016. Since I'm a man of the media, I'll also look back on the need to fund a public service. It's just that every nation, the state that holds onto itself, must have a strong public service and a state medium in these modern times. In addition to preserving culture, traditions of national identity, as well as informing national and cultural values, through the production of domestic documentary, playful, school, scientific, cultural and entertainment programs, the public service also serves as a dam against the flood of the spine, non-culture, the strong influence of cultural imperialism of other countries, negative phenomena in modern societies starting with the decomposition of the family as the basic cell of each society, the overall decline of moral and social standards, increasing dependence on drug addiction in young people, and up to negative phenomena in higher spiritual levels. Therefore, I will always be for the existence of a strong public service, and it can only be strong if it is financially independent in a market, or commercial race. I have to add that the basic problem of our public service is not a matter of subscription or fees, but of poor organisations, systematicisation and outdated technology, as well as of disturbed social relations in the state in the last 20 years, and this is what needs to be taken care of and managed by this house. In the end, new legal solutions concern our MPs. So in Article 8. The proposal for a law on public information and the media says – elected, appointed, or appointed holder of public and political functions is obliged to suffer from the presentation of critical opinions relating to the results of his work, that is, the policy he is carrying out, and in relation to the performance of his function, whether he feels personally injured by the presentation of those opinions. So dear colleagues, I am taking the opportunity to invite you to support the new legal provisions and it would be good to unanimously decide on the adoption of a set of media laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6039	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jovica Jevtic, and let Milanka Jevtović Vukojić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6040	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, honourable MPs, a set of proposals for three laws, a draft law on public information and media, the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Public Media Services, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted and directed to consider and adopt the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, provides for a thorough redefination and improvement of the public information system, catching steps with new time in the field of electronic media in terms of the continued improvement of existing standards and legal regulations and creating opportunities for public media services to develop in the new technological environment and for their programmes to be available on different platforms. The proposal for three media laws as the main newspaper brings out the state of ownership in the media, concluded in July 2015, security of transparency and ownership structure, definition of public interest and protection of media pluralism. As regards the proposal for a law on public information and the media, I think it is clear to all that the public information system in each country is one of the basic foundations of building democratic relations in society and that the Constitution guarantees the freedom of the media in accordance with the highest international standards, and this bill regulates the way in which the rights guaranteed by the Constitution are exercised. So far, the 2003 Law on Public Information has shown certain shortcomings and irregularities in the current media international standards, so there is a need to redefine and improve the legal provisions relating to the public information system. Pathways to the provisions of this law on public information and media were defined by the Action Plan for the implementation of the strategy, the development of a public information system in the Republic of Serbia by 2016, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in September 2011. The main objectives to achieve by adopting the proposed law on information and media are: independence and professionalism of the media system without discrimination in software content, guaranteeing free flow of information without the influence of the state and withdrawal of the state from the media, except in particularly defined cases, transparency in the financing system, transparency in the system of ownership, the introduction of a media register mechanism, the protection of the rights of journalists, the promotion of journalists to their association, the clear definition of public interest in the field of public information, and ultimately the provision of conditions of judicial protection in the event of violations of public information rights. The Public Information Act, as the main newspaper, brings out the state of ownership in the media as of July 2015, but also predicted that within a period of five years after privatisation, programming structures and content must be maintained, which will help the transition of the media to market functioning and preservation of the programme scheme, which is particularly important when it comes to media reporting in the languages of national minorities. As far as the proposal for a law on electronic media is concerned, I believe it is clear to everyone that new technical and technological achievements in the field of electronic media require continuous improvement of existing standards and legal regulations covering this area. The proposed Law on Electronic Media precisely defines the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia over audio-visual media service providers and the switch to digital broadcasting of the programme. New technical achievements mean that all members of the European Union must move from analogue to digital broadcasting by 2015 and that programme content providers are seen as providers of audio-visual media services, not broadcasters. As a system law in the field of electronic media, the Law on Broadcasting, adopted in 2002, applies. The law followed the international standards at the time, which were improved in the meantime, so the implementation of this law has shown certain shortcomings that, with the transition to a digital signal and the definition of audio-visual services issues, are the main reasons for the adoption of the new law, which will best be addressed with new time in the electronic media area. Scientific, technical and technological achievements, moving to a digital signal has led to the notion of radio dysfunction being almost and no longer used, and that the competences and tasks of regulatory bodies in this area are increasingly changing, above all, in the authorisation system. This bill is closer to defining the legal status of regulators, part-round work, funding, public work and judicial control of acts brought by the regulator. To perform the tasks, the regulator is responsible for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the authorities of the regulators are the council and the chairman of the council. The members of the council, which has nine, elects and resolves the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to a predetermined procedure, thus removing shortcomings in the election of members of the PRA Council, which have led to major problems in implementing the Law on Broadcasting. As regards the proposal for a law on public media services, it is essential that, as with the other two media laws, certain provisions must be adapted to new technical and technological standards and international regulations. The current Broadcasting Act has proved to be a bad solution to the functioning of the public service, primarily the poor way of defining its financing, resulting in a constant lack of necessary resources for the normal functioning of the public media service. If this is accompanied by an economic crisis, a reduction in the wage capacity of the population, a legal restriction on commercial income, there is a reason for the threat of all social functions of the public media service and the quality of software content. This bill tries to solve the problems previously listed, provide the necessary conditions for quality work and a stable and sufficient source of funding, while at the same time preserving the independence and independence of the public media service. The bill establishes two public media services institutions as independent and independent legal entities, which is the public media institution Radio Television of Serbia, based in Belgrade, and the Vojvodina Radio Television Public Institute, based in Novi Sad. In view of the above, the basic reasons for the adoption of this law are the following: the harmonisation of the domestic regulatory framework with the regulatory framework of the European Union, the definition of public interest as the basic activity of the public media service, the definition of public media service bodies, the definition of public media service responsibilities to the public. Due to all this, it can be said that the adoption of these three media laws is certainly a step forward in line with the current technical and technological achievements in electronic communications, a step forward in creating modern public media services adapted to the current technological environment and, ultimately, a step forward in defining a system of responsibility in the media sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6041	The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, and let the MP Boban Birmancevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6042	The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us with a set of media laws that are reformal, which in one systematic, precise and valid way regulates the media, which is significant from the aspect of further democratisation of our society, which is significant from the aspect of respect for the constitutional provisions of the Republic of Serbia, which is significant from the aspect of the application of new technologies in the media sphere and which is also significant in the face of convergence with the European Union standards. It's been over a decade since 2003, we've had the last law, and now there's a set of laws in front of us that in a systematic, clear and precise way should be arranged in the field of media. In addition to approaching European Union standards, it is important to note that media laws have received all praise from the European Union, apart from the involvement of all relevant news associations, journalists and professions. The basis for the adoption of these laws is also the European Union Convention, as well as the European Union Conventions on the Protection of Freedom and Rights. This law, of course, also has a starting point in the Public Information Development Strategy by 2016, and whose action plan is one of the priority tasks envisioned the adoption of laws that are in line with EU law. I will focus on the Public Information Act and the media, because otherwise I consider it a roof law, and only some provisions, so that it does not repeat itself with its colleagues who have said enough about these media laws. I will focus on Article 12 of the Law, and it applies to persons with disabilities. Namely, persons with disabilities of the proposed legal solution are given the possibility that the Republic of Serbia, local self-government and the AP provide information in sign language, or in Brajev's letter. This is very important for the timely, accurate and complete informing of people with disabilities. Also, what I want to point out is that it is specified in Article 13, and it is about public services, i.e. notifying, informing representatives of national minorities. That is correct and precisely regulated in Article 13. What, of course, I want to especially praise, and it seems to me that we are now meeting for the first time in this reform law, is that it is simple and simple in this law to say what is the medium, it is precisely precise and what is not the medium. Therefore, there is no longer any dilemma about it. The law is in that sense precise and clear. What I also want to praise, and as far as this law is concerned, is the protection of particularly vulnerable and sensitive groups, the protection of minors. In fact, information in the media that is being published, which concerns minors, must pay particular attention to the psychological, physical, emotional and social development of minors, so that in no way is their right to be threatened. Of course, minors through their guardians, i.e. parents, have the right to legal protection, which is also specified by this law in the event that their right is violated, but what I want to point out is that in the case of a group of minors and the protection of their rights, active legislation for the initiation of a lawsuit is given to legal persons, i.e. bodies whose jurisdiction is the protection of human rights and freedoms. Also, what I want to praise, and it also applies to minors, because the media has a great impact on the development of public opinion awareness, so in recent years a great impact on the education and growing of minors, i.e. on minors' personality, it has been specified that the printed media with pornographic content is obliged to have a warning in their visible place that they are pornographic content, that their front and rear sides should not contain pornography, and that they have a visible sign that they are not intended for minors. From the perspective of transparency, too, this law is a step forward. Transparency, visibility is important to all the subjects of one society, and above all to the citizens. This transparency will be achieved through the establishment of a media register. From what I've seen in this law, the register will be established within six months. Why does it matter? Because citizens will have a clear and complete insight into both the ownership structure of the media and the total revenues that the media receive on any basis. Of course, it is also significant from the point of view of citizens that they will be able to form opinions and draw conclusions about individual media. What I also want to point out, and as far as this law is concerned, is that a legal framework has been done and that is exactly the precise way of project co-financing, i.e. a precise way that will be the dominant way of funding since 1 July 2015. Namely, it is specified that the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the ministry, the competent authority of the AP or the local self-government authority, are responding to a public call, all those who have the project and who are interested in participating in the competition, and after the commission is formed and after the conditions of the competition are clearly and precisely stated, a decision is made on the allocation of funds. The decision shall be taken in the light of the solutions. Decisions on the allocation of funds are final, but, of course, there is judicial protection, because those who are dissatisfied with the solution can start a administrative dispute. In order not to take up time for my colleagues, I must again point out that these are system laws, reform laws, that these laws are in line with EU standards and, there is no dilemma, the SNS parliamentary group will vote for this set of media laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6043	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6044	Dearly respected ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, we must call this set of media laws reformal, because the laws are indeed reformal, which after a long period of years will finally regulate a very important area of action of a country and the functioning and existence of a nation, which is the area of the media. Indeed, it is of great importance both to the state and to the Assembly and to the MPs, on the one hand, and of course to the citizens and participants in the media scene, especially journalists, editors and all other media employees. The political influence of the state is excluded. Political influence is excluded both at the state level and at local levels, which may be more important in certain moments, given that 56 privatization media have been tried, most of which have been broken down, but are largely unsuccessful and local media are on the verge of existence, some survive, some do not survive, and some have been shut down. What's the problem with local media is that they're small salaries and that they're journalists working on the edge of existence, and they're directly influenced by local media. One of the drastic examples is in Šapec, where, believe me, at a time when there was an emergency, I will set a brief example, from 15th to 30th, the journalists reported, both state and local, indeed in difficult conditions and risked their lives, because the dangers were indeed present, in order that from the beginning of June, when one of the local authorities told them – hey, you local journalists, it is not so, these same journalists had to ask the question from June 1st and beyond whether there was any danger at all. So much for how much local media can fall under the influence of these local authorities and how much abuse is involved, and that is exactly what will prevent this law. I forgot to say that those who block the work of these local media at the same time write about the EPS and accuse journalists from state media informing them in accordance with a really objective and real situation. We need to look into the truth in the eye, and the truth is that this set of laws is really much better compared to all the laws that have been governed by this area so far, and that at this point, the best possible. There is no perfect law, but it is indeed the best possible law, which will guarantee on the one hand both journalists and employees of media and citizens and politicians equal, free and above all true information. For citizens who probably do not have the option, and for some politicians who are of course very much in this country, I will read Article 8 that defines the position of public and political holders. I think it is very important for citizens to hear, quote - elected, appointed, or appointed holder of public and political functions, to suffer from critical opinions relating to the result of his work, that is to say, the policy he is carrying out, and whether he feels personally injured by carrying out those opinions. Remember this well, fellow politicians. On the other hand, there is, of course, this law has really arranged everything, and the right to answer if someone's right to the truth is violated. Of course, that applies to the citizens. If any citizen is injured or thinks that his freedom and right to the truth is compromised, he has the right to have the editors of the media who hurt him, or thinks he hurt him, he has the right to seek, to have space to adequately respond to that accusation. Citizens have the right, but also the need, to pass such a set of laws and thus the Government and indeed, in this case, the Ministry of Culture has done a great and excellent job. These aren't changes and additions, these are new laws and indeed all praises to the government, and above all, to the Ministry of Culture. I will no longer be obliged to, what is very important to say is that this law guarantees, I will repeat, perhaps, that it will protect persons and citizens on the one hand, and on the other hand protect journalists and journalistic ethics and journalistic profession and create conditions for freedom of public information, and, of course, in accordance with Article 4 of this law, which is very short and clear, and I will read it. I quote - public information is free and is not subject to censorship. The public interest, therefore, is in line with the law relating to part of the Law on Public and Media Services. Just for a moment, in order not to repeat it, it has been said a lot, but when public and media services are involved and financing, of course I am prefixing public media services requires of the citizens, it requires the government to provide the prefix and finance of these services with that prefix. If we say public media service it is the media service of all citizens of this Serbia, such as the Public Health Institute for All, so is the media service for all citizens. That is why all citizens have the right, and the rich and the obligation, to participate in funding, of course in as little as possible, given that it is an extremely difficult situation. Finally, I will read only the part of Article 15 which is the essence of all these laws, which is, in the opening part, the public interest in Article 15, which is – the public interest in the field of public information is true, impartial, timely and complete informing of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6045	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6046	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow MPs, I followed this discussion, and I wanted to use these few more minutes to say some attitudes and something that was heard from the discussion. I am pleased to hear from several fellow Members of the ruling majority quoting Article 8. The information law, and I hope that it will be consistently applied, that it will not happen, as it has happened in the last year, that when some media appear the content that criticises the work of top state officials and shows will be loved after some changes in the scheme, the media where they have been broadcast disappears from the ether, so they appear or do not appear after a while. I hope the law applies to everything, as colleagues have said, to all politicians regardless of whether they are in power or in opposition. I believe we'll agree on that. What's one of the bad things about, say, what I was talking about at the beginning, is the fact that these laws came by emergency procedure and we didn't have much time. Today, I had a meeting with people who drew my attention to article 45 that was talking about the protection of media pluralism. Since we had this conversation when the deadline for the amendment was up, we were unable to respond here. The issue is that publishers who provide audio-visual media services, whose combined share of listening, is a total of more than 35% of the total ratings or listening. So it's not allowed to be the owner of two or more media outlets that actually realize that ratings or listeningness. I've been distracted that measuring obedience or ratings is one statistical category. It's done every day and media houses use it to make and change their programming scheme, to set the prices of their own to say, seconds of advertising blocks. But it's the fact that it's a statistical part. So you don't measure and you can't measure what all Serbian citizens are looking at at some point, you're doing it on some sample. This pattern depends on what kind of pattern is possible and mistakes. Each measurement implies one statistical error within itself and it exists, and eventually it is said what a mistake it is. The question is, what happens if we measure that the owner of the two televisions has 35.6% of the total ratings or listening to the error plus, minus 2%. Then what do we do and how do we figure it out? I think it might be a better solution, but unfortunately right now we don't have the opportunity to react to the amendment to say, that share not based on ratings, or obedience, or to measure through the overall percentage of advertising income achieved in this kind of media. It is known that at the end of each year, how much media advertising has been spent in Serbia. Unfortunately, this budget is getting smaller and smaller every year. Then it's said if a hundred million were spent on printed media goes 15%, on television 60 percent, and then you see every television in that 60 million, I'm saying this as an example of how much she's earned. These are public data, they are as accurate as the exact previous measurement of printed media where 50% of the sold circulation is spoken of. You're an exact circulation. So, in the number of copies, every day you know how many newspapers have achieved the circulation, and I think this is a measurement of obedience and ratings one category that can lead to the regulator's problem how to determine accuracy, statistically whether this percentage and error has been achieved. Also, a very important thing that no one has touched in the discussion is that the adoption of these laws will be wiped out by an obligation to single out 1.5% as it now exists in the law, from a total subscription to the Serbian Film Centre, for the development and promotion of film creation. The fact is that these funds have not been paid so far, and film creation has been threatened and further developed, because it has not been realized, and when this law is passed without those 1.5%, it would be better if it was kept and kept in mind and that it is really being transferred to Serbia's Film Centre in the future and it will remain pure financing through the budget. I believe that hard days await us, we hear this from both the prime minister and the minister in charge of the economy, that the money in the budget is not enough, and in that case, I'm afraid that the budgets for culture and for concrete, cinematography will be the first to be hit, and that, well, we don't have to make any films this year, or help shoot a film, and thus endanger not only artistic creation in Serbia, but also the existence of people working in the film industry. Also, there was talk here, and we praised it, about a new register that would clearly define the owners. But we think it's very bad, that deadline is practically a year. So by law, six months will take it to make that register under the new law, so that deadline has been left for six months, and then six months to record with all the data. So, only in a year's time, at best, will we know who owns all the media, and we think it's a bad solution, that these deadlines could have been shorter, even in this part of the ministry's preparation, or the regulator that needs to run that register, that there's no need for six months to prepare for it. It's one job that can probably be completed for two or three months, and probably all of this data can be done within six months, and we think it's bad. It is one good side of these laws and it is a pity that it is foreseen so long that this idea of the law is realized. At the end of something that was mentioned here and in the debate, we have submitted one amendment here. There's been a lot of talk in the media about what happened to the people who did, and after the announcement that the subscription would be suspended, they would pay that subscription. Whether they will now be brought into an unequal position, because they have practically fulfilled the legal obligation, some others are not. You know, we MPs follow the laws and adopt them, people don't know. If they hear the subscription is lifted, they think it happened and they stopped paying. We have given one amendment, which stipulates that the subscription paid since June last year to today to those people who have done so, and that in the next 14 months, when the fees start, that they do not pay that fee, that in this way they are, I will not use some of the words that a colleague used, means that he simply does not make an injustice to those who have been legally bound to this day, until the day that this law is in force. In any case, it was a good discussion and there was a lot of talk about the future of the media in Serbia. I think we all share our concerns.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6047	I have to break it up for you. I warned you, let go another 30 seconds. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6048	This article of 45 that you mentioned about the protection of media pluralism, I must say that he was also at a public hearing and was sent to Brussels, so it's just likely that the circumstances were that you hadn't paid attention to him before. I have to say, what you mentioned, this 1.5% that was in the earlier law intended to stand out for cinematography and not. I think that's exactly the difference between some of the previous laws and this law that's now being passed. So we're passing a law that's also economically sustainable. Nothing is worth writing in law a list of good wishes related to Serbia's film centre. But why are these laws important? As you know, Serbia is the first non-EU country to sign access to the Creative Europe Programme. The adoption of this set of media laws provides for conditions for Serbia to join and sub-programme related to audiovisual media. The total creative Europe fund is almost a billion and 500m euros, so that Serbia will be able to, regardless of which it is still a member state to fully apply to these programmes. So our institutions, our artists, our civil sector will be able to apply to these programs. So if we compare what was not sustainable on the one hand and what was given us as a possibility, I think that by voting this law we simply choose the path that I think is good, not only for the media community, but also far beyond, because defining public interests and what will be financed through project co-financing, we support both culture and minority rights and all that is defined as public interest. Only if I can, on behalf of the Ministry of Culture and Information, I would like to thank all MPs today who took part in the debate and also to all those who participated in working groups that worked on drafts of these laws, international experts, news associations, media associations, the general public who followed public debates, all the services of both Serbia and Serbia's government, all the colleagues from other ministries, because in order to pass one law that is sustainable and applicable, it must be part of the synergy of the complete government of Serbia, and afterwards that parliament recognises it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-30-0.u6049	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda. I would like to inform Members of the Committee on Culture and Information that the Committee's session will be held tomorrow, July 31st 2014 after obtaining the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is expected after 1600 hours. You will be notified of the exact time. Now we finish today's work and resume tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
