ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1915	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 160 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 157 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic, Dr Miljan Nikolic, Aleksandar Jablanovic, Olgica Batic and Miroslav Markicevic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of the proposing Dr Nebojja Stefanovic, the Minister of the Interior, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Milorad Todorovic, the Secretary of the Interior Ministry, and Zorica Lončar Kasalica, head of the Directorate for Administrative Affairs in the Police Directorate. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail of the 12th item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SAFETY OF TRADES. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Marko Djurisic and Marjan Risticevic under the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as from the Government on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic, with a correction, and together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1916	Dear Presidents, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the essence of this amendment, which is practically the same in the text of counterparts Zivkovic, Pavicevic and myself, is to extend the period of valid driving licenses to three, as the legislator predicted, to five years. The idea was to allow citizens who had bigger driving licences to last until the deadline indicated on them. In an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, sent by the government the first part speaks of how driving licences in new forms began to be issued only in January and that the adoption of the amendment would not meet the proposal's goal. I have to agree with that sentence, because when we proposed we didn't have that information from which moment the issue of new driver's licenses began. Then comes another sentence, which, I believe, absolutely cannot be explained for refusing this amendment. It says – a large number of citizens have also changed their driving licenses within the legal deadline in old forms although the time they have been issued has not expired, and in that sense drivers who in time and zealously carried out their obligations by accepting the amendment would be placed in an unequal position with regard to the citizens who did so. If this is the reason for the refusal of amendments, then this same reason stands and the reason for not adopting this law, because right now, today, if we adopt this law, we will extend the deadline for another three years and thus put those people who have to date, in accordance with the legal obligation, to replace those documents. So it is absolutely unacceptable for this to stand as a sentence explaining the refusal of amendments submitted by the MPs. First of all, I also think of Mr Risticevic's amendment, which perhaps in the best way the applicants intend to achieve us all, which is simply to be abolished, his amendment tells us that any time limit for the validity of old driving licences is lifted, that is to say, they are valid until the expiry of the date indicated on them. We talked about it in principle. I think the problem we faced today, which is that not all citizens, practically one third of the citizens did not replace driver's licenses, does not lie in the problem of the capacity of the MUP to issue new driver's licenses. We heard on the board today that the MUP has the possibility of 5,000 driver's licenses a day to do it, so in a year it's a million-and-a-half. The whole job could have been done by now. I think the problem with what the citizens think is, I think they're right, I learned that from five years ago when we voted for this bill, I think citizens have the right to have their documents valid until the time limit that the authority issued them, is that five or ten years ago, in this case ten years standing on a driver's license. I don't think we have the right to ask them to change their driver's license before the deadline. Regardless of the activities the MUP plans over the next three years so that all the citizens who have not done so so far have not come and replaced the driver's licenses, we will be in a situation in three years that a significant number of citizens will not do this job again and that in three years we will talk about what to do again, whether to extend the deadline, whether to punish those citizens who have not done so. I call on you to avoid this situation and to hear, to learn something from what we heard from the citizens in the previous period when we had replacements of other documents, which is that they demand and they want to have the right to have their documents valid as far as they're indicated, not that the state makes them change these documents every few years. To accept the amendments today means to extend the importance of driving licences to as long as it is indicated on them and simply to never talk about this subject in parliament again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1917	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, in the same text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1918	Thank you. I think we have similar arguments, that this is a good opportunity for the Serbian government to show that it is her intention to do good to the citizens of Serbia, not to continue a bad policy, which she is not originally guilty of and did not start it, but it is bad that she continues. Rigid policy towards citizens, where citizens are subjects, and then you give them something, you take something away from them, you give them something, and then you cut them short. We got everyone, who has driver's licenses, these old reds that are valid, which are not a condition for European integration, nor for anything else, seven, eight, ten years ago. We got it from a state we should trust as citizens. We won with a ten-year period and then, for no good reason, someone goes by the book, which is certainly not the current minister, to change that. I repeat what I was saying was better heard, the equipment for the production of biometric documents, which are normally carried out and produced and issued new driving licences, was purchased in November 2003. So, already in 2004, the laws needed to change, to drive and to keep this story far behind us. The equipment also produces passports and driver's licenses and traffic permits and ID cards. They can also make new health books. These are all new, modern documents that can facilitate the work and life of Serbian citizens. That didn't happen. First, from 2004 until a year ago, these governments played various other games, besides doing something good for Serbian citizens. They've delayed application, they've stalled application, they've complicated application, as is the case today. Serbia's MUP managed to make one improvement a year ago, in the sense that an old driver's license, which is good, can be replaced by over the internet in about six steps. But it's complicated, too. First of all, not everyone has the ability to use the Internet well. Secondly, those six steps are too much for even some good online job. There is no such complicated work over the Internet for a much more complicated living situation than the replacement of an old document. I have proposed and I suggest that the number five be changed again by the number 10 in this bill. This will allow old permits to apply as much as they are valid and new permits are issued over the course of them, without any problems, without any financial or any other complicated procedures for the citizens of Serbia. The replacement process should also be simplified. It's absolutely possible by positive legal regulations, what I said last time, or via the Internet, or through mail. The old permit, issued by the state, along with a certificate of paid taxes and photos, should it be necessary to place it in the recommended postal shipment, a letter with a returnee, at the competent headquarters of the Serbian police administration in the post office and in the post office, also after seven days from the Serbian MUP, a new permit, perhaps with some birthday card or another situation. This is how we have a continuation of one rigid state behavior without any need. It's power, I repeat, not first, that behaves from the position of power. He's just using the position of power, not the position of responsibility and the role of civil servant. Therefore, I call on the minister to make this bad decision, which I repeat, not his fault and he did not make it, nor did he write, nor did he recommend, nor did he make his proposal to the government, and then government to us as parliament, to respect our amendments. Here, we have amendments from three parliamentary groups that practically have over 200 MPs, so that would be a good precedent, where the new government and the new minister would show that the position of government is seen as a position of responsibility, not as a position of naked power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1919	The word is Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1920	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Ministers, the People's MPs, the SNS cannot support this amendment. Here we have heard arguments from some MPs who were sitting in this same parliament in 2009. At the time, I did not see that they expressed their desire to vote in 2009 for a law that would allow driving licences to be valid until its expiry, which means that by 2019 we would have all the permits that have expired and we would start with new permits and we would have finished the job. Now someone is proposing that we extend that deadline, which would mean we lose two years for Serbia, because the new form's permits began to be issued in 2011, which means we would have old forms by 2021. Why should Serbia lose two years because of one technical procedure? We can't let that happen. Once again, I ask the question – why didn't someone think of it then, since we had certain elements concerning the approximation and harmonisation of relations with the EU in technical terms? Obviously, someone estimated at that time that five years is enough for some technical things that we need to comply with the EU, and now they are ready to extend it to 2021, or seven years more. Gentlemen, if in this way the previous Government and if all previous governments before and in this way have treated the establishment of a better relationship with EU members and the establishment of a closer approach to the EU, then we understand why we are in this situation today. It's just that the SNS has taken certain steps to carry out these negotiations that you should have done a long time ago. What is important, I heard an argument on the board saying that with old permits you can go to EU countries, because no one is asking them because you took out an international permit. I would disagree, because in the government's explanation, it actually says that if we get a new permit, then we won't have to draw international permits because we have one general system in EU countries that guarantees primarily security, but that means we won't have certain costs for international licences. That means that argument doesn't stand. We also heard on the board that citizens are probably not going to do it in three years, and they're not going to take out any new permits. I disagree. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia are safe citizens, citizens who show unity in difficult situations. If all state institutions do their job responsibly, they will certainly do so in three years, but it is necessary that the state sends a clear message, a clear signal that it is important to do so in order to bring our documents from the EU, on the one hand, and to achieve as much security as possible, on the other hand, because this driver's license on a new form is difficult to copy, which means that we will not have certain abuses. I think it's important for our country. Once again, I repeat what is most important, don't, people, to waste time on technical matters, don't let any procedures we can end within the deadlines, because we have difficult decisions for our country, so that we can join the EU as soon as possible and share values with citizens living in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1921	The word has Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1922	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, Honored Minister Stefanovic, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment that wants the validity of driving licences in old forms to last as long as prescribed when the state issued the document to drivers in Serbia. The government has rejected our amendment. We are not satisfied with the argument to reject this amendment and we believe that there is still time to change the government's position on this amendment. Therefore, our view was that there was no reason for the driver's license to be put out of force on the old form of state, past the fixed period of validity. It seems to me that in the debate we had in principle offered really strong arguments, there is no reason to shorten the validity of driving licences in old forms. I can only conclude that this government, and this assembly majority, if it does not accept this amendment, does not appreciate the power of the argument, but that the decision-making criteria are located elsewhere. So there's only one thing I'd like to say if I was in 2009 in this assembly when it was decided that old driving licenses were valid for five years, then I would also vote against it. There is no dilemma, as I will vote against this bill today if this amendment is not accepted. The second thing, I do not agree with the arguments that come from both the parliamentary majority and the Serbian government, when it is said -- these are technical things, etc. I believe that this bill, despite the fact that there is only one word changing in it that it still paints one important thing, which is the state's attitude towards the citizen. Look, the state of Serbia won't lose anything if it provides a citizen with an old driver's license for ten years. Here, I have an old driver's license, valid until 2018. I think I have enough reason to judge myself, not the state in my name to assess whether I'm benefiting from this or not. I'm not denied any rights while I'm using this driver's license. The state of Serbia will not lose anything if I, as a citizen, decide to continue using this driver's license. One more thing, I have to say here as a supplement. The government used the argument, and the MPs from the assembly majority here, that this reduction of the validity of the old driver's license now to eight years, instead of ten of this proposal, is part of our harmonisation, our legal system with the legal system of the European Union. I ask Minister Stefanovic or one of his associates here, or any MP, to point out to us what is the act of any institution of the European Union on the basis of which we have concluded that this is part of the harmonisation of our legal system. Such an act, Mr. Stefanovic, does not exist. What is certain in the European Union was a huge debate on how to harmonise the validity of driving licences, but what happened there, for example, you have a situation where in some Member States of the European Union it is possible to notice, for example, various tables, then for example, it is possible for a person who owns a car, for example, not to have to change a plate if he put a plate there 30 years ago. Well, that argument at all is that it's part of harmonisation with the legal system of all states doesn't stand. So, I ask you to reconsider, not to make the same mistake the government made in 2009, to ensure that the citizen can assess what is good for him himself and that the Ministry of the Interior does not bury the entire administration with additional work. It's natural to run this process of replacing old driver's licenses, new driver's licenses, and in 2021 it's going to happen, no one's going to mind. Please think again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1923	Marko Atlagic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1924	Dear President, Mr. Minister and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be rejected, I will try to give reasons and reasons. In the first place, I believe that the period of replacement proposed by the Government, i.e. the Ministry, an old driver's license by 10 June 2017 is optimal so that we can even call it relaxing for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because for this period of three years, they can be replaced without any burden on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia this remaining part of the driver's licenses. Let me give an explanation, taking into account and respecting the reasoning of other Members of the People. First, if, from 4 January 2011 to June 2014, it means for the month, i.e. three years and five months or 1,230 days for that period, more than two million and 100,000 old driving licenses were replaced, that means 1,750 a day in the entire Republic of Serbia. Then for the next three years, what the Government has proposed, we have to replace the remaining 1,230,000 old driver licenses and we can replace them for 36 months, or approximately 1,080 days, which means 1,122 driver licenses per day, so less for 622 driver licenses per day than in the current applicable law. Let me say why this government proposal is extremely good. First, there will be no traffic on the counters if there were, and there was, that explanation, and our president of the parliamentary group said, we would have to open additional counters. Secondly, there will be no further increase in administration which is one of the tasks of our stabilisation programme based on Prime Minister Alexander Vukic's exhibition. Third, they will not ask the citizens for a day off from their employers to extend the old driver's license, because they can adapt it to our current working time that this government has proposed. Fourthly, we will align more quickly with EU legislation. Fifthly, which is very important, which is why we have defined ourselves here, the habitation of our MPs, as well as the citizens of Serbia at law enforcement, which is the return to the authority of the entire judicial system of the Republic of Serbia and in respect of the law for which we, gentlemen Members of Parliament, have defined ourselves. Therefore, I suggest that the amendment be rejected and the government's proposal accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1925	Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will give up this amendment in writing, immediately after this presentation for the simple reason I will support the opposition's amendment. So those who applaud don't think that we're thinking the same way. This is proof to them that within most of us we have the full right of free thinking, and let the minority consider whether they have the same right. What I have proposed this amendment is why I am a driver and I am subject to these provisions and it is easy for some of my colleagues who do not have a driver's license, they will not be exposed to a replacement driver's license. I fully agree with the argument that one document issued by the state with a certain period of validity must be valid, even in the territory of the country, and those travelling to the EU are not blamed by the state of Serbia. I have a total objection to the whole law that was passed in 2010. He didn't bring an increase in traffic security except that a new Traffic Safety Agency was established that cost us too much. I think the number of accidents has fallen, but you should know that 40% of the fuel consumption has dropped, so much traffic has dropped. It's mostly the result of a small number of car accidents and a small number of deaths. I don't think the law has fulfilled its purpose, has not removed the arrogant, reckless and dangerous drivers from the road. I think that especially, since the minister is already there, so this amendment will be withdrawn in writing, but I ask him to change Article 268 about tractor-connector vehicles, given that in the way that the law is written, it can apply to saucers, skaters, sprinklers, cookers, pickers, etc., to a connected mechanism that has never been subject to registration anywhere. In order to be registered, a technical examination must be carried out, and such a type of connection mechanism cannot pass the technical examination because there is no brake systems, no light signalling, direction indicator, light stop, etc. Only trailers can register. Other agricultural machinery is almost impossible to register. I think this law should be comprehensively completed. I will withdraw the amendment, but I insist on amendments to Article 268, because it was not possible to submit an amendment, because that member was not intended for a change, so I could not submit an amendment of that kind, but unless it is done by the ministry, I call on fellow Members, whether they belong to the position or to the opposition, to change at least Article 268, because he puts farmers in a very unequal position, and that is what some of my fellow farmers here know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1927	Marko Djurisic, by amendment. I apologize first, Minister. I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1928	Let me just say, Mr. Risticevic, on your initiative, the Ministry of the Interior will send a proposal for a regulation to the Government to facilitate the registration of tractors and other vehicles, and I think we can do it quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1929	Marko Djurisic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1930	I'm sorry if Mr. Risticevic withdraws this amendment I admit that his amendment is better than my amendment, because it better affects the essence. Also, I admit, since I was one of the MPs in 2009 I wasn't the only one in this room who voted for this law and for this deadline that we were wrong then and what I am calling you to do is not repeat that mistake. So one of the things why this government is elected and has this kind of support in parliament is precisely that intention to change some things in this country and not repeat these mistakes that have happened in the past. One of the things that we were wrong about at the time was that we didn't best appreciate the state's loyalty to the citizens, and that's exactly what this is about, not whether citizens will respect the law, but what laws the state prescribes to citizens. Whether they, what their character is and whether the reduction of the validity of the valid documents is justified in any way. So this is about the driver's license that citizens in our opinion need and can use within the time limit indicated in that form, the old form, the time limit that is issued on that form. I think we made a mistake when we thought that citizens would see all the benefits of issuing new permits, their greater security, and I think we got a clear answer as to what they think about it. We said it wasn't a technical problem for this job to be done, and by now 5,000 vehicles a day for a thousand and how many days, a colleague calculated, if it had been three and a half years, they'd have issued five million driver's licenses. I don't think it's a technical problem. I think that a significant number of citizens experience this country and ask to be treated, not as subjects, ask that the state, as they respect their obligations, pay bills, taxes and other things, that the state also commits itself to respect what it has committed, and in this case that the documents apply to the deadline indicated on those documents. I say, one bad practice we've had in the past, come on, this is a chance to change. I'm just afraid, I believe we'll be in this meeting and in three years' time we'll be discussing this again, and I really don't want to go out and tell you, have we told you? I think it's bad for everyone, and it's in this new spirit that we're supposed to be working in, I invite you to vote for the amendments, and I'm sorry if Mr. Risticevic withdraws this amendment, because it best reflects the intention of all of us who have proposed amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-23-0.u1931	Since no one's answering for a word, I'm concluding a search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday 23 May 2014 starting at 10.45 p.m. as a day for voting on all agenda points of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, except for this 1st and 2nd item of the agenda that the National Assembly had voted on earlier. Dear People’s MPs continue to work by deciding on the agenda points of the session, except for points 1 and 2 on which the National Assembly had previously decided. In order for us to be able to approach the vote, we need to determine the quorum. I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that the Hall is present with 152 MPs, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on laws governing the enjoyment of individual and collective rights of members of national minorities. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – no one, abstentioned – four, voted – 17 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Before moving to a decision, I remind you: that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected as incomplete amendments to which new members of 8a and 8b were added jointly by the MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic, and the rejected amendment cannot be discussed and not voted on; that the MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljani and Enis Imamovic, in writing withdrew the amendments together to Article 9 and that an integral part of the bill had become an amendment to Article 67, which was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality submitted an amendment to Article 1. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted – 17 of the 191 MPs present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all MPs, the Assembly has accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 188 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Aida Corovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 182 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – did vote 189 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Aida Corovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 172 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 172 of the total presence of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 180 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, with correction, was brought together by the MPs of the People's Republic of Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 190 of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 185 of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 194 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 194 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 188 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 181 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 181 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 21st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 178 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 194 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 184 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 190 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Equality of Business have submitted an amendment to Article 36. The applicant's representative accepted the amendment during the particulars search. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – three abstentions – there is no, no vote – 27 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Drubravka Filipovski. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 191 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 183 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote – 189 of the total of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 195 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote – 189 of the total of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 46th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 186 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 64th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—188 of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to Article 67. The government and the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 194 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, v – five, abstention – nine, did not vote – 14 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the fourth item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE CRIME SENCATION LAW After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the motion for a law on the execution of criminal sanctions, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174 against – two abstentions – there is no, no vote – 26 of the 202 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 195 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote – 189 of the total of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 188 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 197 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 194 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 193 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 78th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 188 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 79th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Bosnjak. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 181 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 195 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 130th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 190 of the total of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 132nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 189 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 189 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 216th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 191 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 270th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 197 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the motion for a law on the execution of criminal sanctions, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, v – one, with abstention – one, 24 of the 199 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the execution of criminal sanctions. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON EXECUTION OF EXECUTIONS AND MEASURE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 26 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasović Koraic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 189 of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173 against – one abstention – there is no vote, 24 of the total 198 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the execution of criminal sanctions. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE As the National Assembly has carried out a review of the Amendments and Supplements Act in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171 against – two abstentions – there is no, no vote – 25 MPs, of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against – one, against – the abstention – who did not vote – 197 MPs, of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 5. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 183 against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 15 MPs from the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted— 193 MPs, of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted – 193 MPs, of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 186 MPs, of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. The government and the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government did not accept the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 189 MPs, of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 27 MPs, of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Defence. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law on defence in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I'm putting the draft law on defence, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – two abstentions – there is no, no vote – 21 MPs, of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 25, which was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted – 189 MPs, of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—ten, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—187 MPs, of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted—188 MPs, of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted – 195 MPs, of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted— 192 MPs, of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted— 191 MPs, of the total of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—ten, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—186 MPs, of the total of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 185 MPs, of the total of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic – Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12 MPs, against – none, with abstention – none, had voted – 184 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Amendments were submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Article 32. During the review of the draft law, the proposing representative accepted the amendment in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174 MPs, against – none, abstention – none, 22 MPs voted among the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment, proposed to add a new member of 32a, together was submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljna Hasanovic – Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine MPs, against - none, with abstention - none, had voted – 187 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malović and Biljana Hasanovic – Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for – seven MPs, against – none, with abstention – none, had voted – 189 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, proposed to add a new member of 58a, was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic – Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine MPs, against - none, with abstention - none, had voted – 187 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the proposal in general. I put the draft law on defence in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 181, v – two, abstentions – none, 13 MPs voted among the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the draft law on defence. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law on dispute settlement in principle and in particular, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on dispute settlement, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, against – two abstentions – none of the 21 MPs voted among the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14 MPs, against – none, with abstention – none, had voted – 182 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the proposal in general. I put to the vote the draft law on dispute settlement, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, against – three abstentions – none of them voted 20 MPs out of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a draft law on dispute settlement. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the draft law on litigation in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on litigation, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, against – three abstentions – none of them voted 20 MPs from the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for seven MPs, against one, with abstention, none voted – 189 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17 MPs, against – none, with abstention – none, had voted – 179 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20 MPs, against – none, with abstention – none, had voted – 175 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Prosecution, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170 MPs, against – two abstentions – none voted – 21 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prosecution. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on extraparnical procedure, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170 MPs, against – two abstentions – none voted – 21 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prosecution. 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the law on enforcement and security I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the law on enforcement and security, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171 versus – two abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 20 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the law on enforcement and security. 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Security of Traffic on Roads Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending the Law on traffic safety on the roads, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, v – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 18 of the total presence of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, with a correction, and jointly by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 180 of the total presence of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 187 of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on amending the Law on traffic safety on the roads, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171, v – 12 abstentions – no, 10 of the 193 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Road Traffic Safety Act. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for decisions on elections, appointments, resolution and termination of functions, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(2), point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority, holds most of the votes of all the MPs. In view of the fact that no amendments have been submitted to those acts, as referred to in Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these proposals. The exception is the proposal for a decision from the 15th item of the agenda, to which one amendment has been tabled, and the National Assembly will decide on the proposal in principle, detail and general. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE DEFINITIONS OF THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 181, v – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 11 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, no one, with abstentions, voted 19 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE MEMBER STATES AND REFERENCE OF MEMBER STATES As I have already mentioned, an amendment has been submitted to this act, and the National Assembly will decide on it in principle, in particular and in general. First of all, I would like to put the motion for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the President of the National Assembly, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 182, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 11 of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in principle, by majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Enis Imamovic submitted an amendment adding a new point 12. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 19 of the total 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the draft decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 183, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. 16th item of the agenda – I would like to put forward a proposal for a decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, which was tabled by the President of the National Assembly, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 181, no one, with abstentions, voted 13 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONSTRUCTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARIMENTAL INSTITUTIONS I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 182, no one, with abstentions, voted 12 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 18th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTITUTIONS OF THE REGULAR DELEGATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 25 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The 19th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE NAME OF THE SPECIFIC DELEGATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARlMENTAL INSTITUTIONS I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the appointment of the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 176, v – eight, abstention – one, nine of the 194 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 20th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Deputy Prosecutor I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the selection of the Deputy Prosecutor, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171, no one, with abstentions, voted 23 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 21st item of the agenda — Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION TO CONSTRUCTIONS OF THE CONSTRUCTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 178, no one, with abstentions, voted 15 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 22nd item of the agenda – Proposal for the appointment of the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I am putting forward a motion for the appointment of the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 176, no one, with abstentions, voted 17 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 23rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the People's Assembly I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, no one, with abstentions, voted 20 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 24th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Infringement Courts I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Infringement Courts, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, v – nine abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 25th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Basic Courts I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Basic Courts, with a correction of 22 May 2014, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, v – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 13 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 26th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Economic Courts I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Economic Courts, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote, 10 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 27th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Higher Courts I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Higher Courts, with a correction of 21 May 2014, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, v – 10 abstentions – there is no, 15 of the 193 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 28th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in the new United States I am putting to the vote on a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – eight abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 29th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Judges who are first elected to the Judge's Office I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – eight abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 30th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE CHOICE OF A JUDGE FIRST TIME OF THE JUDGE I hereby put it to the vote on a motion for a decision on the choice of a judge elected for the first time in office, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, v – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 13 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. 31st item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Judges who are first elected on the Judicial Order I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, v – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly be declared without delay in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 10 May 2014, at 15 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 180 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Enis Imamovic, at a session on 12 May 2014, at 17 hours and 29 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 183 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Enis Imamovic, at a session on 13 May 2014, at 10 o'clock and 41 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 180 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vesna Marjanovic, at a session on 14 May 2014, at 13 hours and five minutes, pointed to the violation of members 103 and members 105 and other members of the Rules of Procedure relating to the maintenance of order at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 178 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 14 May 2014, at 13 hours and 57 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 106, 108 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 179 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Olgica Batic, at a session on 14 May 2014, at 14 hours and two minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 178 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 21 May 2014 at 12 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 168, of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Babic, at a session on 21 May 2014 at 17 hours and 46 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 104 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the three abstentions, has voted, not 170, out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Dr Muamer Bačevac, at a session on 21 May 2014 at 18 hours and 49 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – 170, out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović at a session on 22 May 2014 at 10 o'clock and 53 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—166, of the total attendance of the 171 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 22 May 2014 at 11 o'clock and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – 158, out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision to comply with Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Thank you.
