ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15392	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 120 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Mira Petrovic, Milan Korać, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinović, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Stefana Miladanovic and Olgica Batic. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the first item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF PLANING AND CONSTRUCTIONS. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Aleksandra Damnjanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure and Dejan Trifunović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Mirko Cikiriz, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Boris Stefanović, Balša Božović, Zoran Živić, Vladimir Pavićić, Branka Bošnjak, Olgica Batić, Ivan Karić, Suzana Spasojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomić, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojević, Zoltan Pek, Vujić, Vojordje Stojić, Mr. Dejan Radenković, Mr. Dragan Jovanovic, Jovan Marković, Dragan Šutanovac, Goran Ćirić, Olena Papug, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stošić, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Gordana Čomić, Žarko Mić, Marko Šušič, Slobodanačanić, Slobodan Žović and Dražarić, Mračina Malić, Drović, Drović, Drović and Drović. In writing, the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Ivan Karic on Article 15, Katarina Rakić on Article 89 and Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo on Article 139. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected it as incomplete amendments to the MPs: Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, who was added to the new Article 4a after Article 4. And Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djorđa Stojsic, Mr Dejan Chapa, who is added after article 24a and who is added after article 83a. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15393	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I asked this amendment to define more precisely the objectives that are to be achieved by this law, because the laws in the environment and many European laws, in addition to the principles set out in the introduction, are defined and clear objectives which are to be achieved by the Law on Planning and Construction. The government correctly states in its response that the amendment is not accepted because the subject matter of regulation is sufficiently defined in Article 1. The bill – the definition of the basic concepts indicated by the MP is contained in the other parts of the bill, which is true. However, since many laws define clear goals in the environment that are to be achieved by law on planning and construction, there are even countries that pass a special law on the arrangement of spaces, a special law on building buildings. In an opening statement to explain the bill, the minister said something that we fully agree with, that the government is considering passing as many as three special laws. One law deals with regulation of space, the other one deals with building objects, and the third law deals with conversion. I'm also thinking, I've stated this in an explanation, that I think even the name of the law, the Law on Planning and Construction of Objects, is inadequate, inadequate. For what? Simply because planning as the most general term is an absolutely broad category. Planning can exist in all areas of social, public and private life. I think it is necessary to think, when special laws are passed, to pass a law that would be called a law on designing space rather than a law on planning, because there is no idea what planning is about and also a law on building objects. I proposed an amendment to create conditions for the spatial development of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with European plans for the development of Europe; then, that the construction of buildings should create conditions for buildings to be built in accordance with law and other regulations, standards, technical norms and quality standards in the area of building buildings; that the arrangement of space is considered to be a monitoring of the situation in space, establishing the purpose, conditions and method of using space through the construction and adoption of design documents, the implementation of planning documents and the construction of buildings is a set of actions covering the construction of technical documentation, the issue of building permits, construction of buildings and the issue of use of permits. Why did I specifically point this out as important goals? It's precisely because for decades in our country, in many elements and arrangements of space, building objects we have an unsettled state. For example, in the era of industrialization of a large inflow, the population was built rather unplanned and unplanned, especially in Belgrade and large industrial centres. For example, the Kaluderica village is the largest site of wild and illegal construction, I think, if I am not mistaken, correct me, and in Europe itself. There's been a leak in the last few years. The buildings are built by going out onto the sidewalk, without enough parking space, the neighbors are closed windows, so the neighbors are also denied for the sun, air, home peace. They're often shut down like a medieval fortress. There is no rule that a parking space is made for the needs of an apartment, very often. Projects that aren't built according to the design standards should never be allowed to get a building permit, which happens. All over the world, the most attractive locations are located in the city center, and we are often witnessing that, let's say, if there is no detailed regulation for the city center, there are building permits based on the general plan, and this creates major abuses. It is, first of all, due to the operation of both the urban and construction mafia. That is why I have defined especially these objectives with clear recommendations – preventing chaos in construction, improvisation and the lack of respect for elementary standards and defined regulations, breaking up with the continuity of the chaotic state, ugly dysharmonia. The art of construction, the introduction of an urban and architectural fund, aesthetics, human postulates of construction, the harmony of old and new objects is, in my opinion, our most important task, and I am just because of the situation that exists in these areas, I felt it is necessary to define these objectives in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15394	According to the amendment, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15395	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will take the opportunity, since my colleague, Chikiriz, mentioned the locals of Kaludjerica, to pass on one of their requests. When I was in Kaludierica these days, they welcomed our efforts to pass another law, but at the same time they sent us an appeal. They ask us, they are willing, they want to legalize these facilities, to bring what they once did into the legal frameworks, but at the same time they ask us to make our laws that will regulate it as simple as possible, with as little paperwork and as little financial resources as possible, because they have, they say, had laws, but they have not been able to comply with certain requirements, or those financial resources could not be made possible. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15396	Thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic jointly submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15397	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Mihajlovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, this is the first of our 18 amendments, how many we have submitted to this bill. Of those 18 amendments, five amendments were adopted by the ministry, but this amendment to Article 2 is not one of these five that were adopted. I would like to try again to convince Minister Mihajlovic to consider accepting this amendment to Article 2 that we have jointly submitted to Zoran Zivkovic and myself. Amendment to Article 2. The bill of law we propose to change this attitude regarding the definition of a person we call a financier. Our proposal is for the funder to be the person who, on the basis of the contract concluded with the investor, finances, or co-finances construction, construction, etc., but also to be the person who has certain rights in relation to having financed one part for an example. Construction. According to the law, as you suggested, the financier is not that kind of person. It can only be a face that will give its money without having any rights. Dear Mrs Mihajlović, we have then concluded this – that it is not logical for someone to invest financial resources, for example. that there is no right to acquire property on a financing facility. Which would be a motive for a person or a group of people to finance with the knowledge that they can never gain any rights, for example. is it not the right to acquire property on a financing facility? Please think about it. I think this amendment to Article 2 too. New parties can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15398	Thank you. The People's MP Branka Bosnjak submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15399	I would not too much add to the explanation of Article 2's amendment to what the previous colleague said, I would just like to point out that the introduction of the concept of finance, does not distinguish it and does not have to separate it from the idea of co-investors and investors. If we leave the explicits in the law that the financier does not have the right to acquire property on the property, on what is being built, it would mean that no contract signed between the investor and the financier can contain within itself any member who would define any financial right to at least be someone who has the right to acquire property under some criminal provision. So we can't even mention a mortgage, that if someone doesn't make a commitment, or a mortgage over a piece of property or a real estate. I suggest that my member be accepted, because I believe that the funds must be left with the right to acquire property over the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15400	Thank you. Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15401	Thank you. As with the amendment to Article 1, I felt that the basic principles should be elaborated more precisely because of what exists in our practice and administration because of the situation in the Republic of Serbia. Namely, in Article 3. The bill, after saying: "sustainable development through an integrated approach in planning", I propose to add the words "and to bring the interests of space users into line and the priorities of operation in space, protection of public interest, protection of private interest, but never at the expense of public interest". What makes me think this is what this principle is supposed to be? In fact, because so far there is often no respect for the priority of operating in space and if we have such a situation in practice, then I think it should be contained in one of the principles. Then, because of the fact that the private property of the Constitution is equated with other forms of property. I think she also needs this law to recognise that right, by never having a priority over the public interest. In point 2, after saying "equal territorial development", which is an absolutely good category, I suggest adding: "and a harmonised economic, social, ecological, energy, cultural development of the Republic of Serbia". For what? Again because of the state of our country. We are on the European negative list at the rate of unbalanced development and, unfortunately, after 2000, it has increased. The degree of urban development and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia has the largest imbalance in Europe. I therefore believe that in all legislative solutions and through the functioning of all ministries there should be absolute awareness of this state and that everyone in the domain of their operation normably prescribes that they will do everything possible to improve such a situation, but also in practice to regulate it in another way. In point 3 after saying: "real land use" I suggest adding the words "and natural resources". For what? That's why we don't just have to use the land rationally. That's my opinion. I don't think land is the only natural resource. There are many other natural resources, and I have not seen, in my opinion, any serious reason why this was accepted, unless the government intended to accept the entire amendment. I think that through the board, if one of the parts of these amendments is considered rational, it should have been accepted. In point 6, after saying: "Preventions of technical and technological accidents, protection from fires and explosions, protection from natural disasters", I suggest adding the words "asthematic design and building of buildings, protection of stability and sustainability of buildings". For what? That's right. I say the government in this part is right, too. If the government says - protection from accidents, it also means protection from earthquakes. However, the Japanese are champions in the preventive action against earthquakes, and therefore the consequences of their earthquakes are the weakest visible to their population and their facilities, precisely because these plans for earthquake protection have also raised them to the highest possible level. No matter what this means in other principles and other provisions, and the Government is right, to respect all technical standards and all regulations, then we can also imply that this includes planning against earthquake protection. Also, I think it is necessary to pay particular attention to the protection of buildings and the sustainability of objects, because in particular in recent years, unfortunately, it is increasingly unquality, in particular, that they do not want any category of builders to single out, but often private builders, who want, in search of profit, as cheap as possible and with as little resources to build a building, but the price is the stability of buildings, the sustainability of buildings and the quality of buildings. That's why I thought, I say, that this principle with these provisions should also be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15402	Thank you. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment, MP Susana Spasojevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Master Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic jointly submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Jovanovic has submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go. (Dragan Jovanovic, from the scene: I answered the word, but the system is not working.) ) Please use the microphone, because this is how when you throw without a microphone I can't hear you. Here, what do you want? (Dragan Jovanovic, from the place: The system does not work. I can't hear you. I don't understand what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15403	The Honorable Chairman, I apologize, but I have applied for a word by amendment. Unfortunately, the system didn't register it, and that's why my apology, but I hope I can get a word to explain my amendment to Article 9?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15404	I must disappoint you, I've moved on to the second amendment, and I'm not to blame for the system. So, you need to talk to the service. This happens too often. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word about this amendment? (Yes) The word has a magistrate, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15405	Dear Minister, the President-in-Office, respected fellow MPs, given that the fundamental intensity of this law was how to help the construction industry, how to speed up all procedures for obtaining permits and meet investors through a united procedure, I viewed this Article 8b as a member to contribute to that goal. However, in paragraph 3, which I have submitted to the amendment, the following is said - if the public authority holder does not act within the time limit set out in Article 2, the competent authority will stop the procedure and inform the investor thereof and submit a request for the initiation of the infringement procedure and in accordance with this law. My question is that the ministry thinks carefully about the dilemma of what happens in case there is no planned documentation, which we talked about in the principle of a search, and that we are in a situation where perhaps one public enterprise or more public enterprises are not able to adequately respond within the deadlines set here, secondly, that services, let's say, in a cataster, which has proved in these few years as a body that doesn't follow enough design documentation well, in the sense that it makes databases and that it corresponds to citizens in accordance with the law to their demands, to respond negatively. So we are facing a problem to file criminal charges, and this is particularly expressed during this period from 1 March 2015 to 1 January 2016. My proposal is to add after the words "law" "and give a new 15-day deadline to the public authority to act according to the law". I think it is very important to define the deadlines relating to the application of this law and that the competent authorities commit themselves to such actions. The second member refers to Article 8g of point 1 and is replaced by the words ‘the Spatial Planning Agency’ instead of ‘the Agency for Economic Registers’. In the principle debate, we were just talking about the fact that we find it inadmissible to define in the APR a job that is not the authority of this agency. I understand the need for more than a dozen or hundreds of people in this agency, who will be party listeners, but I believe that this must be a topic concerning the profession and that the Spatial Planning Agency has proved that it has the capacity and the ability to run these matters. If you don't have urbanists in the APR, architects, there's a question of who's going to do these jobs. I urge you to reconsider this proposal and give up this concept of continuing the employment of party people, rather than turning to the profession. If this is a concept, you will support this proposal that the Spatial Planning Agency runs these affairs and jobs that are planned for the Central Register in the Catastrophe. Also, in Article 8j, I suggested that Section 1 be deleted. I think this article is very important, that Article 8j's point of view is in full collegiation with point 3. This is where we suggest that this first-guess formulation be completely deleted. The following is said here – during the conduct of a united procedure, the competent authority is only carrying out checks on the fulfilment of the formal conditions for construction. The main thing here says – and is not included in the assessment of technical documentation, nor is it examining the credibility of the documents it obtains, but of the location conditions, construction and use of the permit, the application of works confirms in accordance with the acts and other documents of Article 8b of this Act. What is contrary to this article, between Article 1 and Article 3, is the following. It is stated in paragraph 3 that the competent authority shall, at the time limit set out in Article 8, where Article 1 of this Act is the case, adopt a solution unless formal conditions for further compliance are met. So, since the procedure is defined in Article 8g, we believe that Article 1 of Article 8j should be evicted and further steps are sufficiently clear and defined by this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15406	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15407	Very short. When we talked about the law in principle, and now in particular, let it be known that the APR decides nothing. He's reporting to the government for three months. The Agency for Business Registers is technically only equipped to run the database, and all documentation is in local self-government. Since there are a lot of amendments, just one brief clarification.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15408	Dr. Vladimir Orlic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15409	Thank you, Madam President. Therefore, I call for the proposed amendment to be rejected, for the reason that the solution proposed by this amendment goes against at least two cases to the basic intensities of the proposed law. And in that sense, I call for us not to waste time on phrases without too much importance as it was, party employment, but to deal with the essence of the proposal. The essence of the proposal is bad, so two basics at least, firstly in terms of which the content of the journal 8g, i.e. the Agency for Economic Registers, as one who takes care of a united register, or a united electronic database, and proposes instead to the Spatial Planning Agency. I think there have been enough words, and there will certainly be more words on the subject today, as can be seen, that is, the role of the Spatial Planning Agency in accordance with this law. Second thing, Article 8j. Article 1 which provides that the assessment of technical correctness is not carried out but exclusively completeness of the appropriate formatting of the documentation to be applied. It's also one of the basic laws that's just been set up to achieve efficiency and that's something that's certainly worth it in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15410	Thank you. You can pick up the amendment, Mr. Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15411	Dear Minister, dear colleagues, I call once again on all of you to be well involved in the debate and analysis of what I have proposed, because I think it is essential that we develop the first position and the third position of Article 8j. So if in the opening part of the first position it is said that the competent authority has no other authority than to verify formal documentation requirements, then it is done for a reason, but the question is raised, below that position it is said that the competent authority issues both the locational conditions and the building permit and the use of the permit. I understand that in the first position you put the terminology or formulation that says that the office for the reception of the documentation only checks formal conditions, but it is impossible for the competent authority that corresponds to the subject, which is responsible for the conditions related to the locational conditions, building permit, use of the permit, at this stage there is no authority to verify the essence of these requirements. Then it is said in the third position that the competent authority is obliged to issue a solution to this case. If in point 8b. an explanation of the procedure, then it is absolutely unnecessary for an 8g position, i.e. item 1 in 8j of this article, because it formally indicates that the competent authority, in this case without any responsibility, must accept the subject to which it is brought into an office. On the basis of this case, he issues all these permits that I have spoken of and comes at risk of that competent authority until the work of the inspection not having the opportunity to establish any failures to this case. Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Bosnjak. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15412	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague, I would just like to hold off on the amendment proposal for a moment. First, I want to convince the Ministry, and Madam Minister that my intentions were not to really change the essence of the law, but to my amendments to just contribute a little bit to the promotion of individual members. Through the example of my practice I'll tell you first what the essence of the amendment is, then why I'd like to introduce a change to the law. We've defined through the law, defined short procedures, and that's really something I'm guessing we're not arguing about, and what we all want to achieve by this law. In my statement in the law analysis in principle, I gave my commendation to the law element that defines the hierarchy of responsibility. In order to improve the hierarchy of responsibility, I have submitted an amendment which, in the act of a member who says that the competent authority is obliged to not actually deliver to the public authority within the appropriate time limit, does not initiate an infringement procedure, what I want to change is that the infringement procedure can also be brought against the public authority holder who issues the wrong, incorrect and incomplete data. In order to cut deadlines, we'll be able to get incomplete data from utility companies. In response to the ministry why my amendment was rejected, I was given the reason that the competent authority was not in a position to verify the correctness of the data delivered to the municipal services. That's absolutely certain, but I haven't even given him the authority to control it. The amendment only gave me the opportunity to initiate a misdemeanor procedure against those who issue false or incomplete information. Currently in Belgrade, one of my facilities has, say, 2,000 squares. It's located in a wider center of the city, the facility is finished in a gray phase, we've got conditions to connect to the primary sewerage line in the street and do it right in front of the building. After much work was completed, it turns out that the street has no sewers at all, thus expanding Belgrade's centre. Very precise conditions have been obtained, water heights, water diameters. In the event that the short deadlines give rise to such a situation, which is that the competent authority is given information from a municipal enterprise that is incomplete or incorrect, we will sometimes bring investors in a position to suffer serious damage. The amendment did not urge the competent authority to control, it does not stand in the amendment, not to control the credibility of the data, but rather to sanction those who are incomplete and incorrect data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15413	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15414	President-in-Office, Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, we wanted only to complete this amendment in order to complete the procedure for obtaining documents, i.e. in Article 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Planning Act, annexed to the new Article 8b in paragraph 1 after the words – reception, we have added a word – orderly. In practice, it is most often the case that the parties submit an application without complete documentation, which is prescribed by law. If the word -ordinary is introduced, it means that it insists on orderly documentation, which in some ways would arrange the application and the time to solve it would be calculated from the date on which the orderly documentation was submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15415	Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordna Komic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15416	Thank you. The amendment we have submitted concerns the definition of what kind of documentation should be submitted. We suggested that after the words – delivery, we say – neat, or - submission of orderly documentation. The explanation given by the Government says that the amendment is not accepted, because the handling of a request that is not neat, or complete, is prescribed to the members of the 8dj. Items 3 and 4. It's a bill of law. But I'm not talking about it when it's not neat, I'm talking about putting it clearly that you need to deliver a neat request. That's the difference between looking at the spirit of the law. In my opinion, the law should be positive. The law should in its provisions say what you should do right. I'm not talking about what's going on, if the paperwork isn't neat. I say - if you want to comply with your request in accordance with the law, then you have to file neat documentation. That's probably the difference that resulted in the amendment not being accepted, but I really think we should vote for such an amendment and therefore start the process to look at the whole spirit of the law differently. A special comment independent of the amendments that have been rejected or accepted are both legitimate, but I must comment on the fact that the committee responsible has submitted 13 amendments to this law. We all know that this is all legitimate, and we all know that it is a practice that, through the board, at the moment that no one else is allowed to submit an amendment other than the parent committee, that through the Committee, the Government is submitting its amendments. So, the government has tabled 13 amendments after mistakes and unconformed amendments to various MPs and it is good that there are these procedures. This isn't criticism, this isn't a grudge. This is more of an appeal to pay much more attention to each text of the law, to treat ourselves much more thoroughly in order to avoid using the procedure for the committee in charge to submit amendments, because the government has asked him to do so. In just two cases, the Committee has submitted an amendment to what the government wanted for the last six calls. It's another indicator that there's never enough times, a number, to read the laws so we really know that all the doubts are cleared, that there are all the necessary words to say, in this case, the path to documentation quite precisely. So, my proposal is that you accept this amendment, however, and to address all those who will file documentation that the documentation should be neat, as should in this sense be the orderly and draft laws that come to us with sufficient time to consider them, in order to make as little use of the possibility of a procedure that is legitimate, I repeat it is not a matter of criticism, nor of demeaning the procedure, he is clean, that the Committee submits amendments in order to harmonise what is clearly noticed whether the amendment of other MPs or what the Government itself has seen in the debate, so that the procedure is used as little as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15417	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15418	Very short. The basic principle of a united procedure, which is the novelty of us now, is precisely orderly documentation. Therefore, as soon as the documentation is not regulated, the request shall be rejected. As far as the Committee is concerned, I am pleased that we on the Committee, except that you have discussed on the Committee and almost 21 amendments of opposition parties have also been accepted, this law which has also been in public debate for four months, and I think that all possibilities should be used, so of course the Committee and try and always do so, to sort out whatever it takes in the law, since this is indeed a very important law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15419	Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, respected Mrs Mihajlovic, honored guests from the ministry, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 9 of this bill. Let me explain what this is about. I think we should consider accepting this amendment as well. For the purposes of Article 3(3), the new 8b writes – if the holder of the public authority does not act within the time limit set out in Article 2 of this Article, the competent authority will stop the procedure and inform investors thereof and file a request for the initiation of the infringement procedure in accordance with Article 211a of this Act. We felt that the words - stop the procedure should be deleted, and we believe that these words should be deleted because if they stay, it will be contrary to the spirit of the law. We all know there's something called the spirit of the law. The spirit of this law is that it must not be stopped by the procedure, that the procedure must run because of those 28 days, for example, Mrs Mihajlovic, and then we felt it was enough to stand – if the public authority holder does not act within the time limit set out in Article 2 of this Article, the competent authority will inform investors and will file a request for the initiation of the infringement procedure. So the investor will also know in this formulation that someone has not done their job, but there will be no dramatic situation to say – it stops with the procedure. I already imagine that there will be a lot of these messages – the procedure stopped, the procedure stopped, and then what was the spirit of the law, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic. I ask you to think about it one more time and clear the words: stop with the procedure. They're too high in here, I think. They are understood, and they disturb what is the spirit of the law, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15421	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15422	Like that famous act - in the spirit of the law. The amendment has been accepted. You're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15423	The 9th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 9. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15424	Dear Minister, this is also about Article 9, but not this amendment that has been submitted. Since you were probably busy with some other things while I was explaining the amendment, I am interested in the answer why it is not a good formulation, and it is in line with what Mr. Pavicevic said that it is necessary to give a new 15-day deadline to the competent institutions to resolve the case? If I can only get an explanation for that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15425	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Especially after the amendment. This is again a proposal to engage in the assessment of technical content during the phase prescribed in Article 8j(s) of Article 1 and not in 15 days. In that sense, I would like to correct colleagues who may have been confused in recording the amendments. Once again, as it was an opportunity to talk about this subject a few minutes ago, this solution is not good because it is just tearing down the basic intensity to achieve the proper efficiency of this issue, under number one. Under number two, since there were some responsibilities reserves at this stage of the procedure, there is certainly responsibility and it is clearly read from the proposed legislative solution, formed in the manner in which the applicant delivered it in this room. Its responsibility is now, its focus on those who sign, people who have the right licenses and whose signature guarantees that what is tolerated is correct, which I believe is not small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15427	- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Vladimir Marinković, Zoran Babic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15428	We've given the amendment to delete the additional part of this article 10. Namely, in the previous version of the law, the basic one, and this will be the ninth one when adopted, were not these two positions where documents of spatial and urban planning are said to contain measures to regulate and prepare territories for the needs of the country, as well as data on areas and zones, objects of particular importance and interests for the defence of the country. A special contribution relating to specific measures of regulation and preparation of territories for the purposes of the country's defence is an integral part of the plan unless the Ministry of Jobs decides otherwise. I think this is completely out of the spirit of the law, to complicate the procedure, that, with the law involved in planning and building, it also puts the elements of the country's defence that are completely in the wrong place, that it even gives arbitration to the incompetent Ministry of Defence to assess whether something is going to be an integral part of the plan or not to be an integral part of the plan. I think it's a bad solution. I'm sure this solution didn't come from someone who wanted to fix the law, but, as it used to be, under the pressure of military structures, things were put under the law. I'd like to give the Ministry a chance this way to clear the law of this excess. Of course, the defence of the country is very important, of course, that the security of the state is the highest priority, but it has absolutely nothing to do with the Law on Planning and Construction. I think it will be good for the whole spirit of the law, which should otherwise be changed to one new one, but we will later, that the adoption of this amendment by Mr Pavicevic and I should advance the law, and I recommend that you adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15429	The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15430	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I personally think that perhaps you should consider supporting the adoption of this amendment. It's simple, sitting on the planning board and the way we communicate and the process of adopting plans that I think maybe it goes in favor of the practice to keep it the way it was. So, I wouldn't overexplain myself, I guess colleagues who deal with urbanism from the Ministry know that this can really go a long way, a lot of ways, and that just giving consent and conditions to the Ministry of State could be enough for a plan-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15431	The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic has the word, and then Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, Mrs Mihajlovic, the honored guests, I think it is very important that we remain on this amendment too, because I believe that our argument, as Mr Zivkovic said, as well as our debate on the Committee on Spatial Planning this morning, was aimed at that it is possible to accept this amendment. We felt that not adopting this amendment would spoil something that wanted to be fixed, further complicated, probably because of some reasons that did not concern matter. Then our proposal was – let not what it wants to be fixed be broken because of some influences on the side that do not concern what is the matter of this law. We thought that if it stayed like it said, it would be like being in the Traffic Safety Act, for example. place a detailed specification of every vehicle that can participate in traffic, Mrs. Mihajlovic. We believe that this is not a good approach, that it needs to be changed and that you might reconsider accepting this, as our seventh accepted, amendment to this bill, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15433	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15434	In particular, on the subject of this amendment, I would like to express my personal position that the proposed solutions in Article 10, which concern documents of spatial and urban planning in the context of the country's need for defence, the preparation of the territory and the designation of specific areas of interest for these needs, are not considered problematic. In that sense, I am adding to the comments that we had a debate on the committee responsible this morning. I note that on that occasion, we have not received significant assurances in which the situation would be complicated, the procedure is difficult, but simply a finding that, as now, in this debate, there may be a spirit failure, perhaps an influence on the side, but we have not heard a single fundamental reason what will be qualitatively disrupted, what will be demoted, what will be bad if such things are adopted. It is good that we agree that the defence of the country has a special purpose, that it is important and, in this context, that it also has a certain need in spatial planning. On the committee responsible, we heard that putting such a member into law was actually initiated by the Ministry of Defence, which I think should also be respected, that it has its purpose and its essence. Certainly, on this point, as for each other today, the last word will be given by the competent ministry. I note that even if we keep this solution and agree that there is a good logic and a good base for it in the area of the defence of the country, which, we heard today on the committee responsible, and it does not have to be strictly in the military context, but in the context of protection from many other problems that society can face, there would be no mistake. In that sense, we wouldn't do anything wrong if we kept article 10 in this form in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15435	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. No, you can pick up the amendment if you want. Mr. Pavicevic, by amendment? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: He addressed me directly. No, he explained his view of the amendment. You can still explain the amendment based on the time available, I'll let you do that, if you want? Oh, no? Thank you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15436	This is a good example of how a good amendment can come across a positive response from both the Committee and the competent ministry and I appreciate both decisions. It was precisely the purpose of this amendment that the law should be released from something that was not necessary to exist in it, nor does it bring any benefit to its presence in the law. That is precisely the answer to the previous speaker, it is not the point that something does not bother the law, such as Article 10(2) or (3), but the point is that something helps make the law better and that Serbian citizens have less problems implementing the law, that is, using what the law provides. Therefore, if our primary goal is to improve the law by amending it, then it can't be logical for us that something that doesn't spoil the law shouldn't be thrown out of the law itself. This is one bad example and it would be bad for such bad examples to spoil these good examples, such as the adoption of amendments by the New Party MPs to this law. Since I have 20, 30 seconds left, I am taking the opportunity to thank Marina Kresic, chairman of the New Party's Resorial Committee on Urbanism, who is also the real creator of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15437	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15438	Thank you. I would keep our common focus, if possible, on these good examples. Certainly, a good example of the constructive approach of all the factors in this room is this very law. The interest manifested through an extremely large number of amendments, solutions, proposals, different angles of view, and then a corresponding reaction by the ministry through also a significant number of amendments adopted and certainly not some strict account on which they come from. I think good solutions are now supported without any backup, we see, it happens during this debate. It is certainly commendable in this respect and the Committee's activity through amendments adopted today and interest in further discussion and I do not think that the spirit of the law is at all controversial. What we recognize as a good value all today is exactly the spirit of the law, a constructive approach of all the factors and, of course, the solutions we talked about a few minutes ago and we're going to talk about, I believe, for a long, long time today, when you look at what is proposed, are certainly in its root, in its base of good and quality. It's not about whether or not something that maybe doesn't bother to stay, it's about the only things that contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15439	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15440	And this is a good example. Namely, the legislator, or representative of the Government, has accepted our amendment, which rejects the word "svot", which is known as one way of analysing the performance and potential of a project, but is not the only method that can be used. So, as the explanation puts it, this amendment extends the possibility of professional and analytical action and I think we should once again focus that this is a good example and I hope there are more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15441	Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Vladimir Pavicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, Mrs Mihajlovic, the honored guests, we have submitted the amendment to Article 16 and now I think it is worth the adoption of this amendment, not only because of the spirit of the law, Mrs Mihajlovic, but also to explain. Our addition concerns a single position here. It writes – when a systematic basis for the village is developed before or after a spatial plan has been adopted, their construction and adoption shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this law relating to the construction and adoption of the urban plan. Our dilemma on the board this morning, when we discussed it, was – was it legally possible in relation to the content of this law, and we, after consulting with the experts again, concluded that it was possible. Here I think a good example is why perhaps Mrs. Mihajlovic was respected, should still have joined the adoption of a new law. Because if the new law had been passed, then you wouldn't be on the board this morning, and I don't believe now, any dilemma about this should stand for this formulation. So the question was whether it was legal to do so against the rest of the law's proposal. We've seen that it can, there's no problem. I ask you only to consider adopting this amendment as, I think, the record eighth amendment adopted by the MPs of the NS, in relation to some bill sent by the government to the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15443	Mrs. Mihajlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15444	I agree with you. This, I would say, is a possibility plus, therefore, that this amendment can be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15445	I find the minister has accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15446	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guests, we are pleased that this amendment has been adopted. In Article 16, new Article 20a. Paragraph 1 after the words ‘document’ shall be added to the word ‘capitalised for which the draft document is not intended’. Therefore, there may be a case that the spatial plan does not provide for the production of PGR for a village or a village yet to be adopted. So these are just some of the amendments adopted during this debate by the Democratic Party and I would take this opportunity and thank the former minister in front of DS Oliver Dulic who helped draw up these amendments that were adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15447	Thank you. The word has Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15448	It's fantastic that Mr. Dulic helped you make the amendments, that's great. I'm very sorry, when he was a minister, that he didn't better fix that bill, so we wouldn't be 186 and wait 300 days for permission.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15449	You want a safe replica. No, no, I don't see any reason for replication. You've made one finding, the minister's second and there's nothing left to replicate. According to the Rules of Procedure? I'm just warning you, please, I'm just warning you, don't use a breach of the Rules of Procedure to use a replica. Here you go. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15450	Dear Chairman, I think you've violated attitude 104. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, because you allowed the Minister to express his very negative comment on a colleague who was before her a minister in this same portfolio. I don't think the colleague had any bad intentions to point out Mr. Dulic's involvement in the work of our Parliament club. I think the very fact presented here by Ms. Minister in the principle debate, that the results of the construction activities, or building operations, or in general, the results related to the period from 2008 to 2012, when Minister Dulic was Minister of Spatial Planning, are sufficient at least to respect that he was treated in this way. So, the very fact that in 2009, 13,000 apartments were sold in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15451	No, no, please don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15452	... And the minister herself said that in 2013, 600 apartments were sold talking about it...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15453	Mr. Marco, please, I warned you. So the first part I realized, all the other things you were saying is a replica and I'm not gonna let you do that. (Jovan Makrović, from the city: No, this is an explanation. It's clear to me, you gave such a clear explanation in the first sentence, that I understand what you wanted. I can only explain it now, whether or not I consider the breach of the Rules of Procedure to have been or not. (Jovan Makrovic, from the place: Please, let me finish. Thank you. I won't allow you any further replicas. Sign up again if you think there's anything else to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15454	Thank you. I was going to say, the fact that was said here in the principle debate that 13,000 apartments were sold in 2009. (Zoran Babic, from the post: He is not the minister of apartment sales. That doesn't show the quality of the minister's work. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15455	Thank you very much. I don't see anything offensive that the minister said here compared to the predecessor, she just realized it was supposed to be law and why the law wasn't done before, and that's it. I therefore believe that the Rules of Procedure are not injured. If you think he's hurt, do you want to make a statement in the day of the vote about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Yes. Yeah, all right. Borislav Stefanovic, on what basis? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: After the amendment. ) All right, the word is Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15456	Mr. Chairman, here's Madam Minister, I think it's a good thing that this amendment has been adopted, and I think it's a good thing that you and I as a representative of the government have stayed on it. So, indeed, this amendment in one segment adds to this matter. Then everything else now if we say someone helped us make it, you can't help but react. I don't think that was necessary, really. Why? First because this amendment that has been adopted and as others that have been adopted, I think the government has done it wisely because it shows that we want to make things clear together. That together we want to solve problems and that you or someone in your ministry is looking hard enough at the problem from a professional point of view. I think it's positive, really. But when it slips into that domain of politics, when your name bothers you, your predecessor is not well, I think. Because this man, whatever you think of him when you write numbers and that 186 place is not the product of the law, only the law, you know that a lot of legal proposals have been passed and a "lex specialis" that you have not applied and the fact is that we are in that place and during your power for two and a half years. You can't get yourself into this right now. Why didn't you pass that law?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15457	Mr. Stefanovic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15458	Yes, so this amendment will help to make things that have been done much better than they have done today and now that the construction industry that has fallen to us by more than 40% since you've been in power is now improving, it's true. That the number of jobs in the building is increasing and that the things concerning the documentation are now more precisely defined. That's why it's a good thing you adopted this amendment, too. No one's gonna pass that on to you. We have been saying from the beginning that as many amendments as possible to the opposition as possible should be adopted because the law has changed so much that a new one can be fully passed. And not by speedy procedure, but by order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15459	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic? That the line wants a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic? That the line wants a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15460	The amendment in this article was made because of "Biograda na Voda", in our opinion. In this article, which is very long, there are 6,3.7 points, setting the option that the republican government can by its assessment declare something of importance to the state, which of course is not impossible. The problem here is that it is not defined as some object that is related to defence issues, or to traffic, health care, or something like that, but is allowed for the government to declare anything of particular importance or a plan of special importance for the whole country, which means that both casinos, hotels, restaurants, aqua parks and such things become part of the national interest, which is not serious for a serious country. We have already discussed in principle that it is a better option to pass a new law, this will be the ninth version of the existing law since 2007, if I am not mistaken, here, that it has become a good law that we agreed on and with the minister that it was good, but that its flaw has not been implemented by an abditated, once a small repair of that 2003 law and its application would have created a good basis for further development and planning and construction in our country. Of course they're not the only problems in construction and small investments only in bad law. Of course there are reasons that are just as important, which is the economic crisis and this global one, and this regional one, but also this oldest one of our Serbians. It is certain that a good law, not good but excellent law, could remove many obstacles that have prevented some small investment from reaching our country. That is why I can promise that MP Pavicevic and I will write a bill on planning and construction by the end of March next year, if not already done by the competent ministry. We've already started working on it. We think a three-month deadline is enough to end it, and we're not going to break that deadline safely. I hope that even then we will have the favor we have in several cases related to this law by the minister. I think this is one area of life and work in Serbia where there shouldn't be a lot of room for party competitions, bumping up what happened and how it was. We all know, this is an area of expertise and this is an area where investors recognize how good or bad it is. So there's no place for demagogy, any social, any ideological. We know the law from 2007 to today that's changed, here's the ninth time, was bad. We will agree that if we have adopted 50 and some amendments to 100 and some members of this bill, that this change has not been good enough either. I'm not transferring that responsibility to the minister because she's not someone who's done something like this in his career, so I think that's the least of the fault. This is the result of a lightly made promise by the Prime Minister some time ago, which was, of course, broken in the timing, but it's less important. It's not about speed, it's not about 100 meters, it's about not getting a quality bill. Let me repeat again what our objections were, in general. First of all, keeping a strict hierarchy of plans. This generates a complicated procedure for the adoption of all the permits necessary for the start of construction. It is, of course, just as bad because it is Serbia's space and plan, a conservative solution that does not contribute to decentralisation or regional development, or anything that could bring...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15461	Time, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15462	... freedom is given in planning and building, and of course under other laws that define that area. Finally, I think these changes to the amendments we've given may be a transitional solution, but yes...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15463	Mr. Zivkovic, please, you've wasted your time, I warn you, your time you've spent. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I think you have the wrong assessment. My time has just begun. All right, I'm sorry. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I have two minutes per amendment and five minutes for discussion, that is seven. That's right. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: It was five and a half. Five and two are seven in Serbia from Christ here. ) Please, you have spent the same time on previous amendments. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: It is not true. Check it out. Now I'm going to consult. If I was wrong, I'm sorry, I didn't mean it wrong when it came to time, just a moment. I'm not going to hurt anyone, and I'm not insinuating that I don't accept my mistake. Mr. Zivkovic, you have one minute and 15 seconds. Please, just sign in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15464	There's no reason to deal with catching a stopwatch, it's far below the level of this home. The fact that you interrupted me, of course it's not polite, but I'm not going to ask for any satisfaction about it. Otherwise, I'm being punished on your part for a lot of minor offenses, so I've accepted that, and if that goes for the treatment of children, please punish me whenever you think of it. So, a new law should be passed, MP Pavicevic and I will put forward a proposal for the law by the end of March next year. For this law, we expect consultations and support from all MPs, the competent ministry, professional circles, engineering chambers and all those who think Serbia should be a regulated country in which investors will have the opportunity to invest their money for the benefit of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15465	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15466	Mr. Chairman, instead of a general debate, I will deal with the amendment, specifically. Therefore, on the subject of amendments to Article 17, practically all the changes proposed by the amendment promoter are about the elimination of point 5 of the text itself, the point relating to the right of the Government to define what is considered to be of particular interest to the Republic of Serbia, that is to say, matters of special importance to the Republic of Serbia, because there is also the essence of Article 21 that is being changed to the proposed Article 17. The very essence, or meaning of this article, of its content is obviously not disputed either, since no corrections in the sense of Article 1 have been made. So it is clear that this is about situations where special importance is being considered for the Republic of Serbia. Despite the fact that cases of an individual area are taxed which may fall under special importance, such as natural, cultural and historical, ambience conditions, mineral raw materials, tourist potential, etc. The question remains, what about all those situations of special importance, all those special needs, the needs of national interest that do not fit into the remaining five points as many as there would be if we obey the amendment and the government's right to propose a special interest for certain projects, we eliminate. This will not be answered by the amendment promoter because he did not, he did not propose an alternative formulation for the government's right to define a particular interest. Then there is only one dilemma left in the end, which is at all controversial, since we do not have an alternative, the context is not disputed, what is then controversial about the government defining special importance and special interest at national level. Is there anyone in this country more invited at any time and whoever makes the government at a given time to define this kind of special importance for this country and its citizens than who of those citizens is mandated for such a court, I would say no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15467	Thank you. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric together submitted the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15468	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister, is the essence of this amendment in fact referring to the general dilemma of the position of local administrations that do not have the status of cities, and such municipalities are about 150 in Serbia. Since the law also defines the role of the city's main urbanist, the role of planning committees is defined, we come up with a dilemma where municipalities are located. Thus, Article 19, paragraph 2, states: “The general urban plan is being adopted for a populated place, which is determined as a city, or Belgrade City, in accordance with the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia of 2007. ” Our amendment refers to the development of a general urban plan for a populated place with more than 30,000 inhabitants. We believe that municipalities such as Vršac, such as Pirot, such as Kikinda, such as many other places, or other municipalities, have major infrastructure problems, that they have big plans for their development in any case and that the essence of these cities, i.e. those municipalities, must have a plan document that will in some way unite the design and plans of general regulation. So in this case, in response to some of the amendments in this application, the question of finance is, how much the building of the planning documentation will cost the municipalities. Our proposal and our concept are based on the fact that the planning documentation, and we talked about it in principle, the essence of the application and the united procedure, i.e. in the event that you do not have a municipal level of planned documentation, you are having problems, you are coming to the conclusion that the Commission for Plans determines the general building rules of 2011 conditions for construction. If the GUP also worked for municipalities with more than 30,000 inhabitants, we believe that the role of the Commission for Plans is indeed an advisory character. We believe that there should be savings at this level and that many municipalities, say, Vlasotince or I don't know what other places, which have these commissions and which pay for the arrival of people from Belgrade or Nis or Novi Sad, etc., can save, but the plans of the general regulation agreed with the GUP must be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15469	Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, Mrs Mihajlovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, this is another amendment that was not accepted, but this morning on the Committee, when we discussed it, I concluded that there was a chance that in one dialogue we might conclude that this amendment could and should be adopted. It is an amendment amending Article 19, but not only in attitude 2, as proposed by the Government, but we believe that attitude 1 should be deleted and we have one basic argument, Mrs Mihajlovic. The argument concerns reality. We believe that by erasing Article 1’s position, two important things are made possible. One thing is that based on the general urban plan, appropriate location conditions can be issued, and that's what I mean is one important thing, instead of going into these details, as provided for in point 1. Secondly, we believe that it is entirely in the spirit of trying to simplify and speed up the procedures for which this law tends. Dear Mrs Mihajlović, we have also thought about this bill as a whole, so we have come to the conclusion that if you would adopt this amendment to Article 19, which I expect here now, that you will also adopt our amendment to Article 43, which is in contact with the content of our amendment to this Article 19, which we want to delete Article 1. You have explained why you do not think the amendment should be adopted, but this morning, explaining the little meaning of our amendment to Article 19, and later on Article 43, we have jointly concluded that there is a possibility that this would be adopted and that the adoption of the amendment would improve not only the spirit of this law, but also one bill in whole, in all the members concerning this matter, the locational conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15471	Thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic. I apologize, first Balsa Bozovic as an applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15472	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the distinguished minister, respected guests, in article 19 after the word "City of Belgrade" the point is replaced by a comma and the words are added, "as well as for a populated town which is the headquarters of a local self-government unit that has more than 30,000 inhabitants". In the very explanation, we stated that this provision was added from the 2009 Law on Planning and Construction. For example, Kikinda and Vrsac have more than 30,000 inhabitants, while municipalities are, for example, the Loznica city that has less than 20,000 inhabitants, and the city is at stake. Also, why, for example, would Kickinda and Vrsac do a job from the beginning if they brought GUPs and PGRs to the zones under the 2009 Planning and Construction Act? So, not to double business again now, and just because this law is not passed as a new law, or not proposed as a new one, it is changing and supplementing, which means that it has not been bad in all segments or in your opinion, we think there should be a thread with the 2009 Law, even when it comes to this. For this reason, I believe and suggest that this amendment be adopted, for the simple reason that we think that some local self-governments will make it easier to work compared to what is provided for in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15473	Thank you. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Bosnjak. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15474	With this amendment, I wanted to establish a hierarchy of urban plans. I agree with the Ministry's explanation, and I will withdraw this amendment in writing, so it will not be voted on. Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I reported after the previous amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15475	Excuse me, Mr. Markovic, you had to sign up to give you my word. Now I can't give you my word, because we've already done the second amendment. I ask the People's Messengers that anyone who wishes to take part, to sign up. You did check in first, but you checked out and a colleague called Balsa Bozovic. I was counting on you to give up. You weren't here. I'm sorry. I thank Mrs. Branky Bosnjak. We're moving on to the next amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15476	Therefore, Article 21(2) and the new positions 5 and 6 are deleted. We felt that if there was already a plan of general regulation and it contained all the data necessary for the issue of location conditions, regulation and adoption of the production of PDR... Therefore, the regulation, adoption and production of PDR is immaterial and unnecessary, and this position is immaterial. Why? So, if someone is already prescribing these conditions, they are famous, they are publicly published, we believe that this member, as well as Article 57(5), is also pointless. Why? Because if a cadastral parcel for which the application for the issuing of location conditions is intended for further planning, such a plan document shall not be submitted within the time limit of the prescribed Article 27. Local conditions shall be issued on the basis of a sub-legislative act governing the general rules of parceling, arrangement and construction and on the basis of an existing planning document containing the regulatory line. The plans containing the regulatory line are only that PGR and PDR, necessarily contain the conditions of parceling or parceling, editing and construction. Therefore, if there are no PGRs or PDRs, the said Article 57 makes it impossible to issue location conditions, and therefore it is pointless and unnecessary. That's what we thought, reading the logical thing. Since you already have this contained, if you don't have it, then it doesn't make any sense at all, simply, there's no need to prescribe it this way. I don't know why this isn't adopted. I really think it's a purely technical matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15477	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15478	Just for a little while. Good example. This led to a small deregulation in the field of regulation rules. Generally, this whole area is good to regulate, but it's bad to regulate. Hyperregulatory was never good, so this change will create easier conditions for regulation rules and work in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15479	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, together with the corrections submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Snezana Malović, Dr Blagoje Bradić and academician Ninoslav Stojadinović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15480	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the guest, is here for a new term, which we think, by just being new in this law, we don't need to automatically disprove it. I think some of the new things you've tried to warn and change the bill really needs to live in it. In Article 23(4), paragraph 4 is amended as follows: ‘Article 3. — The decision to amend and supplement the booth shall be taken by the Assembly of the Local Self-Government Unit, where appropriate, on the initiative of the Public Authorisation Holder or on the initiative of the Authority responsible for issuing the building permit’. Article 5 is amended as follows: “After Article 3 is added the position 4 which reads – The conditions contained in the plan document, i.e. derived from the Separat or obtained from the public authority holder, have the same legal power and are binding on all participants in the procedure.” Since the Separatist only implies a separat of the urban plan, it is clear that only a local self-government assembly and not just a public utility can bring it. In this way, in a twisted way, a booth is deconceived and if this remains prescribed, there will be a tendency to prescribe a special issue of conditions for the largest number of cases, which is then fully devising this new term or new way of solving the problems that you have foreseen by the draft of this law. For this reason, we think it would be important for you to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15481	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Jovan Jovanovic, Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Mrs Mihajlovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, we have submitted an amendment to Article 26 and, as I understand it, there is no room left to think about whether it should be adopted. I don't think that was a good approach. We believe that Article 26 should be deleted for similar reasons as we thought should be amended in Article 10 of this Law. In our explanation, we wrote finely that it is not necessary and that nothing would serve here that documents of spatial and urban planning contain measures of regulation and preparation of territory for the purposes of the country's defence, as well as data on areas and areas of objects of special importance and interest for the defence of the country. We thought these categories didn't belong here. These are some questions to be left for the military, and plans in general should be made in accordance with the conditions which, in the process of preparing the plan from the Ministry of Defence Affairs, the authority responsible for drawing up the plan. So, we believe, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, that it should not be as an integral part of the plan that there is a special contribution that would refer to specific measures of regulation and preparation of territory for the needs of the country's defence. That's why we think it's only logical to delete article 26. Since our amendment to Article 10 has not been accepted, it is my assumption that things will not be accepted either, but I still think that we should consider this argument further, because this doesn't seem to be the place here. If there's some pressure, if somewhere else is thought to be necessary, and we don't think that's good, let's fight these forces here today and do what's best for all of us and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15483	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15484	So, not for reasons similar, but for reasons identical to those heard about Article 10, this amendment should not be accepted either. Since we have already discussed this, and in the light of the reasons for this amendment, we have not heard a single new reason to support the adoption of this amendment, I suggest that from all that we have already exchanged on the basis of the argument, we also make the same conclusion when it comes to the amendment to Article 10. So nothing new, so nothing new or opposite. The reasons for the rejection stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15485	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15486	I just want to say thank you for accepting this amendment. I don't know why the powers of the AP Vojvodina were expelled from this bill, so I thank you for seeing that it wasn't well done and for accepting the amendment, because the AP Vojvodina has jurisdiction in spatial planning operations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15487	Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 31st amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15488	I thank you for accepting this amendment. We believe it is important that in a few specific and clear matters this law is completed by amendments. I would once again like to thank the former minister, Mr Oliver Dulic, for proposing these amendments, along with the DS Parliament Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15489	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Karic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stosic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15490	In Article 33(4), in the second sentence, the words ‘one third of the members’ are replaced by the words ‘one member’. We believe that, both the notification and the professional influence of the ministry responsible for spatial planning affairs, in relation to the work of the commission, which is being educated by the competent authority of the AP, is achieved in quality through a member of the commission appointed on a proposal from the minister in the area.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15491	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15492	Thank you. I would like to welcome the first explanation that we have received with the proposal to adopt this amendment, certainly in that part that I consider very important, to respect the proposal to appoint a number of members by the ministry, precisely with the aim of contributing professionally. Looking at this proposal in this context, I would suggest that there be still a proposal in which one third of the members will be appointed in the way proposed by the legislator - if one person is appointed in a certain way, significant professional assistance, as we have been able to hear now, so much more important professional assistance will be provided if there are more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15493	Anyone else want a word? (No) Professor Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 34. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic together submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15494	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guest, article 36, is completely deleted and that is the proposal we have tabled with this amendment, for the simple reason that this member is contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government. Whether this person is employed in the city administration or not, and this is about the city's main urbanist, it remains unclear even with this bill. What happens, for example, to a Belgrade city architect, a function prescribed under the Law on Local Self-Government? That's an open question. If both laws are contrary to each other, then it will create one problem that we will not be able to solve so easily. Or do we not burden a Belgrade architect with simply changing his name or changing the way he will present himself in some future period? But in any case, we think this is a matter that will largely complicate additional law enforcement and some things will remain completely unclear. For example, when it comes to the city of Belgrade, which according to law has a city architect, this law, in some ways, abolishs and puts the city's main urbanist. Will there be both? Will the city architect of Belgrade, whom I believe no one even knows who he is, be represented as the city's main urbanist? That's the thing we want to set up for this occasion, unless this amendment is adopted. If the amendment is adopted, it will certainly be much more detailed and better regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15495	Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. I apologize, Article 36. It is an amendment to Article 36. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Arsenovic, Mrs Mihajlovic, and the honored guests of the ministry, I have just wanted to make that one correction, because we have submitted an amendment to Article 36, not Article 38, as it has been said here. Two things I'd like to say here about the team, along with, of course, one bravo for accepting our amendment, which is very good and reasoned. First of all, this member concerns the main urbanist, and we think it is very good that now that the bill, after our amendment has been adopted, has left the possibility that other than the cities and the cities of Belgrade and other local self-governments will determine and set up their main urbanist. We think it's really okay. This is where it should be accepted, that no one has any dilemma. My second note – despite having a large number, especially with regard to similar situations regarding the debate on other drafts of the law, the adopted amendments of the New Party still, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, remains the same observation from our principle debate, which is that we can today, and this way, for example, by correcting Article 36, fix this bill, but we are correcting something that is generally bad. Once again, I'm telling you that it would be very good to engage yourself in a public debate, the moment the New Party proposes a brand-new law on planning and construction by the end of March. We will, of course, apply the same approach you apply to our amendments, we will be very constructive and defined for dialogue, and I hope that you will be actively involved, with your team, so that from the middle of next year, by regular procedure, we can discuss here and then adopt an absolute and very good new law on planning and construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15497	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15498	Mr. Chairman, I asked for a word in Article 37, not Article 36. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15499	Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 37th Amendment were submitted by MP Milena Corilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric jointly submitted to the amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15500	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, a respected colleague, in Article 37, contains in some way the basic concept or the fundamental objection that we made in the principle debate on the application of this law, i.e. the proposal for this law. One of the essential things that we pointed out was the lack of planning documentation, although Mrs. Mihajlović, in some way, criticised us for not reading the laws, not being in the process of law enforcement, that we are not in the process of drawing up the planning documentation. In my address, Mrs. Mihajlovic, I claimed that the Ministry had given up, in a way, making the planning documentation and not mentioning the spatial plan, but I mentioned the planning documentation as a category. Namely, according to our information, a huge number of local administrations in these two years, since the introduction of the concept of the transfer of power in Serbia, has completely stalled the procedures for issuing building permits and in a comparative analysis of the state before 2012, following the application of the 2009 Spatial Planning Act, and what took place after 2012, you will see that not only the Ministry is responsible for not issuing permits in this period, but local administrations that do not know their powers, their competences and did not finish the work on the planning documentation. When we suggested that the work of committees under Article 37, paragraph 7, be treated as work without compensation, we had the following in mind. If local self-governments comply with the law, in this case many local self-governments did not comply with the 2009 law and we asked in our proposals to provide them with an 18-month deadline to complete the planning documentation under this law. If local administrations respect their obligations and adopt planning documents, the commission's work is being asked. Then the idea is justified that the Committee on Plans be an advisory character, but the question is why local administrations will pay nine members of committees who come on the side, who have expenses, roads, transportation, daily living, etc. A large number of local administrations set aside monthly fees for the work of these commissions. Our finding is, if the planned documentation is done in accordance with the law, then it is questionable monthly or I don't know how to put these commissions together, and here we believe that through the role of the main urbanist, we should define the role of the city's urban service and put an end to the way commissions work. We are also asking a question that we have opened and in principle debate, we support the idea that the urbanist has additional powers, that he should be elected by the assembly, that he has jurisdiction and responsibility and that he handles these areas, but the question is whether his role as chairman of the Committee on Plans is by law, or whether he is in line with the Law on Conflict of Interest? Before the municipalities bring amendments to the statutes and implement systematicisation and reception of new people, I think we should give an answer from the Anti-Corruption Agency whether this is a conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15501	The word has a national emissary, Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15502	I would just like to say something about this amendment. Right at the beginning to say that it shouldn't be accepted. I would like colleagues who have submitted the amendment, to explain what working on these committees means. Working on these commissions does not mean that the persons appointed to the committee members come, sit and read on the commission decide on the adoption of a plan act or some other type of documentation, it is a very complex procedure where material can be measured by kilometers and centimeters for each session, not by the number of sheets. It's a job where, before each session, the preparations for that session are carried out at least two entire working days, for those who do so safely. Also, working on these committees, which is generally full-time, there is actually time and professional responsibility, except I think that this job should not be advised and free, and I think that the seriousness of working on these commissions could be questioned, because, let's say, I was a member of the Sokobanju Plane Commission and if you think that no one should pay the cost of the trip to Sokobanja, if no one should pay me the two working days I spent preparing for that commission, then it is a matter of flexibility, diligence and commitment to read all the documents that are available to me and prepare for the session. This law also has high elements to prevent the elements of corruption. Working on a commission where a member of the commission can decide one way or another to assist an investor, and if the work had not been paid at all, unfortunately, it would have added the possibility of some subjection to that member's interest in another way. That is why I believe that this commission should be paid and this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15503	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15504	I appreciate the argument of my colleague, but I think the context in which I spoke is also directed at this part of what my colleague is talking about and with some of the amendments I have proposed in the previous members. I think it is unacceptable for Mrs. Mijalovic not to answer the question of what about 150 municipalities not treated by this law and what about the development of a general urban plan for these municipalities? In the event that these commissions play a role in drawing up planned documents that are armed and will respect the legal deadlines provided for under this law, I believe that the existence of this commission is justified. In principle, counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic provided some information related to Užice that no construction permits have been issued practically in the previous two years. In several previous years, the town of Užice has completed a spatial plan, a general urban plan and it stands on the ministry's site as an example of positive practice as planned documentation is being done. We've done several plans of general regulation and only one plan of the center has not been made in two and a half years. That's what I wanted to talk to you about, if in the town of Uzice or Koserić in two years you don't have a practical permit for construction work, you're asking the question of asking this commission? The second question, if the ministry did not provide for a general urban plan for municipalities, then it is in line with this completely logical thinking that the commission that works in Koserić or in other smaller places, works or deals with the making of general regulatory plans, that job will work for three or four years because they receive compensation, have paid travel expenses, journals and everything else. If this law does not define the deadline for drawing up the low-level planning documentation, then the question and role of this commission is raised. That's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15505	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15506	Let me explain, because I don't think you understand. And let me give you an example. The case concerns Minister Dulic. Minister Dulic had nine to ten different commissions within the ministry. The commissions included members of the ministry and those of the people who came from the side, teachers and all others who were hired. I'll tell you that the receipts that the members of these committees had, I especially think the employees were simply amazing. I'm not saying that some people in one case were given 700,000 to 800,000 dinars in the review committee. Since you're mentioning a new transfer of power, I'll explain it to you. It wasn't the overrun of the government, it was you who lost the election because you didn't do well. Among other things, this law is one of the reasons. What's important is that this government doesn't pay any employees employed by the ministry, any ministry, and it's a member of the commission, not a single dinar. That's not what your government did. Your government was spending its money, and despite the regular income employees had given them through various commissions, which were at least seven to ten, two revisan, the Licens Committee, there were all kinds of things. So these receipts that were employed by the ministry during your ministry talk about the amazing behavior of the IRS, and about taxpayers' money. So it's gone, but it's not because this government did it. As for the involvement of professors or some other institutions that are not employed within the ministry, a special rule has also been made, thus no longer receiving that money they received, but receiving a certain fee. One more thing, when you mentioned local self-government and municipalities, you were wrong. The construction ministry is funding and co-financed their plans and continues to do so. So it's not the problem you're trying to bring out. The problem is that we're dealing with now because of the piled up, so let me put in a milder word, the problems you left behind.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15507	Thank you. There is a word, according to the amendment, MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I answered. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15508	The Honorable Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15509	I know, but my colleague Jovanovic called before you, Nedjo Jovanovic, too. So, wait, you'll get the word. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Only by amendment. Here's a colleague of Jovanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15510	Dear Chairman, Mrs. Mihajlovic, I must say that I understand Mr. Markovic's need, I highly appreciate him as a fellow and former mayor, but what I would like to point out is that I agree with my colleague, Bosniak, that it is illogical for the members of the Committee on Plans to be without compensation. It -- it wasn't, it wasn't going to be, and it's a illogical thing. What prompted me to speak about this amendment is one thing that I would ask the distinguished Mrs. Mihajlovic to do, which is that members of the Committee for Plans delegated by the ministry, which concerns commissions which are of course for plans in local self-government, there are a lot of conjecture, there should be a little speed up, which is that these people are changing. We have examples, unfortunately, in local self-government that certain members of the Commission for Plans are there for more than 10 years and that it is already time, and there has been a change of government and everything else, that these people are changing over a certain period of time. And what I was saying in the debate in principle, I think it should be clarified here in particular, is exactly what my colleague Markovic mentioned in a sentence, which is – is, in conflict of interest, the main city architect with the post of President of the Planning Commission? I've got paper somewhere from the local self-government of the 2007 or 2008, where we have the Commission's position to fight corruption, or the Anti-Corruption Agency, that it's in conflict of interest. So, the function of the city's chief architect and the function of the President of the Commission for Plans at that time in the city of Cačka, and I have them for Topola and some other local self-government. So I'm asking you to make a statement here. I believe that this amendment as it is written should not, of course, be accepted on the grounds that these people have earned compensation. Who will come from Belgrade or Novi Sad to some municipality that is a hundred kilometers free of any compensation or paying of travel expenses, but also that these people are aware that the state, or the ministry, has delegated them, one part of them, to help these local self-governments, and not there, to say, make certain combinations, and therefore they need to be changed a little more often. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15511	Mr. Jovanovic, I'm just asking if you've been using the time of your authorised representative or... (Dragan Jovanovic, from town: Yes. ) Authorised representative. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15512	Thank you, Chairman, I will agree fully with the reasons that my predecessors have stated that the amendment is not accepted, given the indisputable fact that the members of the committees who have been working on the Continuity for a long time, and as distinguished colleague Branka said, they are doing a very complex and delicate job, they must also have the appropriate compensation. This compensation cannot in any case be outside those frameworks which involve austerity measures that this government has established through various legal and sublegal acts. In this direction, there is no doubt that any member of the commission should be compensated for what has been done and contributed to the Commission's participation in the work. It's mentioned, Uzice, and that's true. Me and my colleague Markovic are coming from the same town. It is indisputable that a long period of time has not been granted any single building permit. The unquestionable fact is that one such situation has generated bad legal solutions, but it is also undeniable that we now have a completely different legal framework in which such situations will overcome and move on in a completely different direction of action. I just have to say hello, because, in a possible sense of the word, why eventually, because we will eventually come to these provisions of the law, in any case, it is highly commendable that the proposaler, in particular here, has accepted one of our amendments, which is the amendment of the colleague and our authorised representative, Suzanne Spasojevic, that where there is no major urbanist in local self-government, these jobs can be entrusted to professionals who can also carry out these tasks on the basis of professional references that can and must have city urbanists. Is the city's urbanist in conflict of interest if he's a member of the commission? For the sake of reminders, the Anti-Corruption Act clearly defines and opens up some issues that are sometimes controversial behind us, but in this situation it is about members of the commission who are ad-hoc members of the Commission and where compensation is given for the corresponding tasks that are precisely in those ad-hod situations. That is why the compensation is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15513	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15514	Dear Minister, don't mind me, but really the experience that I have in the past two years about the transfer of power, but I haven't invented that term, it's a term of SNS that's been promoted throughout Serbia, since that period when it's undeserved, some people who didn't deserve to wear some of the functions set up against the local election results, and you're aware of what happened in Uzic. So, from that moment on, jobs have been suspended to make planning documentation. I'm telling you, if you don't have complete planning documentation and you don't have deadlines to complete the planning, you won't have a system, and this united procedure bill won't work. If you don't have a draft, complete planning documentation, then you have the general construction rules from 2011, then you have commissions that will make decisions on certain requirements, but we have a big problem. Instead of helping local self-government to complete the planning documentation and to help and to work on the basis of laws and planning documents, we continue to retain commissions that will receive compensation. It's far more savings to help make documentation than to keep these commissions going. I want to talk about the fact that commissions should work in the interests of people, not the collection of journals. I thought my proposal was in line with the government's savings policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15515	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15516	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find this amendment unacceptable. The Commission cannot work without compensation. It's an extremely important body set up by a local self-government assembly, and just as such, it's independent, and it's a kind of control body, and it's professional people who can't work without compensation. In Novi Sad, these people work, meet once a week and make really important decisions for the development of the city, and I think it's impossible for such people to work without compensation and that's why this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15517	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15518	Just two more facts. First of all, since I know that citizens, and we're all in the middle of a highly sensitive line to some compensation commissions. So this isn't really about an evaluation committee. Here is the decision-making committee, the commission that proposes, which makes solutions in certain situations. It's a commission that works, which isn't here to plead only by a vote. I want so much for the sake of the citizens to complete, to highlight the difference between commissions that do not carry out preparatory work before making a decision in relation to committees that only vote, and I would also like to say that the lack of planning documentation, plans in certain municipalities, has sort of solved this law through separatists. That is, we are all aware that there is no construction without plans, but separatists, and it will probably be in the works when it comes to members who define the Separat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15519	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The same text was submitted to Article 37 of the amendment by MPs Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15520	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable minister, the honored guests, therefore, this amendment is the consequence of an amendment to Article 36, which obviously will not be accepted because we haven't even had a comment from our guests here today in the Assembly, but I think it's very important that where laws clash to correct these things, because it's no use to anyone. Previously, we said that it was a member of the 36th city city city's chief urbanist that was contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government. Thus, here in article 6, where it says that the main urbanist is the president of the Commission in cities and the City of Belgrade, we believe that this position should also be deleted, along with the whole of Article 36, and that this thing is somehow arranged and, of course, by law. I would also, in part, refer to what my predecessor, Mr Markovic, said, which is one thing that confuses the citizens of Serbia completely, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia reduces wages and pensions to someone and we are all Members of the public, we are all in some kind, whether we are in the legislative or executive power, subject to these changes, then in this way additional funds are being spent, where it is not disputed that someone has a daily, where it is not disputed that someone has travel expenses, but it is very controversial to be paid for it and to throw in all local self-government in Serbia in such a way money that we have saved by reducing wages and pensions of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15521	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15522	Thank you. I call on the amendment's promoter to look at the reasoning we have received in the text with the opinion of the Government. So, this amendment certainly in that part of which we have just had the opportunity to hear a slightly broader explanation, and as far as the city's chief architect is concerned, is actually adopted through the adoption of amendments by other fellow Members of Parliament, precisely in the work that the motioner of this amendment presented as part of the interest. So there's no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15523	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Jovanovic, Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoran Babic, Dr. Aleksandra Tomić, Katarina Rakić, Milisav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15524	Thank you. First of all, I want to thank the Minister for accepting this amendment. By amendment to Article 39, which refers to the addition of a new Article 53a, this amendment provided for the erasure of attitude 6 relating to the issue of location conditions for objects by which, according to us, it was objectively not necessary. Also, this member attributed the obligation to obtain location conditions for reconstruction, construction and recovery, which we also consider unnecessary. So thank you for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15525	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 39. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Novica Tonchev. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Novice Tonchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15526	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, dear Minister, I have submitted several amendments to the amendments and additions to this law. Since my party friend Milutin Mrkonjic is chaired by the Committee on Spatial Planning and that this amendment has been rejected, and all amendments that have been rejected, which I have submitted, I am withdrawing them from the procedure, so as not to waste time on the vote. One amendment was accepted and I thanked you for that, and all I had to say about the law was when we discussed it in principle. Let me tell you, the last time we discussed Lake Vlassin and I asked you, and I was asked by the citizens of Surdulica, at Lake Vlassin in the first sanitary zone, we don't have any facilities, so you can say hello, and we didn't allow it to be built there. So there's nothing to legalize here. I asked you last time, on behalf of the construction industry, to look at the tender that was called by the implementation unit, namely the modernisation of schools. Secondly, I have asked a parliamentary question in writing about the solutions that you have abolished and the solutions that we have issued. I withdraw all my amendments and thank you for accepting one of my amendments. I want this law to succeed in practice and indeed our construction industry to have the place that belongs to it in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15527	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15528	This member of the law, i.e. Article 1 which defines the role of the competent authorities, has a lot of uncertainty, and I thought that the formulation contained here is, firstly, a problematic formulation in which it is said – if the plan document, i.e. the booth does not contain possibilities, limitations and conditions, etc., cannot stand at the same time "has no possibilities" and "does not contain restrictions". If there are restrictions, then there should be restrictions on the institution and they should be resolved, but this formulation is not correct and I think we should pay attention to the negation of the restrictions we're talking about. The second thing that is very important here is a wording which further requires the competent authority that in the event that all the conditions of the case are not met, that is, if all the authorisations and consent of public undertakings and institutions are not obtained, the competent authority shall obtain the applicant with compensation, or compensation, as it is said, the actual costs. The whole system of united procedures is being questioned and it is being questioned what these costs are, at which stages, why they are now mentioned, and Article 8b of this law says that the procedure is united in such a way that interested persons receive free documents in one place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15529	Thank you. Prof. Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a master's degree, Jovan Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15530	I'm counting on what we talked about several times. The amended Article 56(2), following the wording of the "competent Ministry", adds the words "the deadline for the administration's reply is 15 days". Given that over 200 amendments have today been submitted to this law, given that there is indeed a series of failures and indeterminateness to this law, we felt that through this formulation we could make our contribution in order for this law to have its own form and purpose. We believe that the deadlines that have not been given by many members of this law can be a major problem in the conduct of the procedure and, among other things, we have suggested that this 15-day period be set in this article for the conduct of the competent authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15531	Thank you. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Snezana Malovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15532	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, above all, at this first presentation, I would like to thank the Ministry and the Government, for having had an understanding of the amendments to the opposition and that a very large part of our amendments has been adopted, and I will not report every time our amendment is adopted. This is a positive practice, but unfortunately and rarely, so far we have not had this kind of experience that the government has understanding and that it really comes out in the opposition amendments. I hope that in the future we will have a practice like this, because I think it is in the interest of all of us to make the law as high as possible. In particular, this amendment, which has been adopted, is about one seemingly technical amendment, i.e. the determination of which day the deadlines for the complaint begin. We know very well when it comes to the organisation in practice that the complaint, appeal, date, deadline of delivery is the essential thing, because the complaint is, of course, declared when the investor disagrees in a specific case with something that has been determined, established or issued by the Secretariat. It is very important that this very amendment, which is proposed to run within three days of the date of delivery of the document itself, i.e. specifically here, the location conditions, and not within three days of publication, because we know very well that with our administration and one and other administrations, you cannot know when the body issued the act, but only when you receive it, can you start to run the deadlines. So much for the amendment, but I'll contact the others later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15533	Thank you, Mr. Homen. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15534	The esteemed chairman, the honourable minister, supports the amendment submitted by distinguished colleagues, which concerns time and deadlines since they run. It would be very convenient to hear from the minister, since I've been waiting for days, opening the mail and seeing if the letter has arrived from the minister, but there's no letter, no postcard. The minister promised me here in front of you that a month and a half ago she would invite me to open up, or a new beginning of work on the bridge in Novi Sad, Žeže. Unfortunately, there is no letter, but unfortunately there are no workers on that bridge either. Well, Minister, speaking of deadlines, I'd like for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and for the MPs to say what's going on with your promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15535	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15536	This government and the minister have done everything they can to start rebuilding the bridge. I also believe he will. What's now a problem is the problem of the province's government. I hope now that they've been recompensated, because they love that name a lot, the transmuted government of the province will help make that bridge work. I hope we can go around the bridge together anyway. When I say time, at the moment it depends not on the minister, but depends on Bojan Pajtic and the province government. I don't know their reasons, although I've asked them several times, asked for letters, sent people, and we've all agreed, and every time we get a new condition. So I hope that in at least the next ten days, we will have the final response of the province's government, which is why they do not accept their own obligations that have been signed, as far as the Iron Bridge is concerned. He's extremely important and you and I know, and I will not, of course, give up on him starting as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15537	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15538	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure. I would really ask you that when something this important is on the agenda to talk about what the agenda applies to. We had just before an incredible abuse of the Rules of Procedure to ask the question of the Minister, which has nothing to do with this law, because I guess you don't know what to do anymore because there is no criticism, even commended the Government for having respected certain amendments from a member of the parliamentary group of predecessors who otherwise abused the Rules of Procedure. I guess when you don't have anything else to say, then catch up and out of the blue bring out some kind of critical, literally critical thing to do here. Fortunately, the minister answered me, but I would really ask you to take care of what is being said at this session because you can ask that question on Tuesdays or Thursdays when questions are asked to the government, not when this is a debate, and I would really ask you to take care of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15539	I thank my colleague. I can tell you that my colleague Janko Veselinovic spoke briefly off the topic, which lasted about 20 seconds. It's very difficult for us to have a session so we know what the MP is going to do at what time. But, therefore, I ask all fellow Members of the People to adhere to the topics of the agenda. You have every opportunity to ask the question you want in those days, according to your Rules of Procedure. Anyone else want a word? You want the word after the amendment? You want a replica? But based on what? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: At the minister's presentation. You have no right to a replica. So are you a member of the circuit government? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I want a replica of the presentation of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic exactly on the basis of what she said. No, I want a replica right now. You can only speak according to the amendment. The problem is that you want a very broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. And when we start to interpret it very widely, then we get into trouble for the chairman to allegedly break his rules of procedure. So, in this case, you have the right to speak by amendment and no one is defending you. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I want a replica of the presentation of Minister Mihajlovic, who spoke about the Democratic Break and representatives of the DS... )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15540	Your Honor, the chairman has given you his word to speak of the amendment. It's his right to assess whether you have the right to a replica or not. That concludes this topic by the end of the term of office. So, as it says in the Rules of Procedure, so will it. The chairman shall determine whether you are right or not. Do you want to talk about the amendment or do you want to keep talking? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: No. ) You do not want to talk about the amendment. (Jovan Markovic from the post: No, at the Minister's presentation. No, no, no, Thank you. You didn't get the word for it. You only got the amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. No, I'm deleting the list. (Jovan Markovic, from place: Delete. The same pitching can only be sanctioned by the Rules of Procedure today. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Novica Tonchev. Does anyone want a word about this amendment? (No) I thank you. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, respected Mrs Mihajlovic and respected guests from the ministry, I will still try to take advantage of the time I have now by amendment, respected presidents, to try to convince Mrs Mihajlovic to accept this amendment as well, unlike fellow SPS colleagues who have given up trying to convince the minister of the amendments they have submitted. Here is, therefore, Article 43(2), respected Mrs Mihajlović, reads this, according to the proposal you sent – local conditions are issued on the basis of the general regulation plan, for parts of the territory for which no urban plan is planned. We suggest a change in this attitude and it concerns entering several terms. Very clear. We believe that Article 2 should read like this – local conditions are issued on the basis of a general urban plan or a general regulation plan, for parts of the territory for which further urban development is not foreseen. Now, in an attempt to see where the confrontation of these arguments lies, Mrs. Mihajlovic, I read your explanation why it was not originally possible to accept this amendment. The explanation says - the amendment is not accepted because the issue of locational conditions based on the general urban plan, which was our addition to this amendment, as a strategic document, is not possible in line with the proposed concept of spatial and urban planning, and then I return to trying to further convince you that the amendment should be accepted and now I have three additional things. The first thing concerns reality, so based on the general urban plan is for many situations in our cities, and that is now reality, they can issue appropriate location conditions. Your Honor, I'm also using time per amendment, I don't know how much time I have left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15542	Three minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15543	Three minutes and thirty. Okay. So, that's one thing, Mrs. Mihajlovic, we also have to respect some reality that goes beyond what's written in the explanation for the rejection of the amendment. The second thing, we believe, should be given the opportunity to issue appropriate locational conditions, and this amendment clearly defines that the location permit can be issued on the basis of any valid urban plan for parts of the area for which mandatory further urban development is not foreseen. I then believe that what is part of our argument cannot be in dissent, as you have written, with the proposed concept of spatial and urban planning. And, third thing, it seems to us, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, that this amendment to Article 43 is in the spirit of trying to simplify and speed up the procedure that this law seeks. So contrary to what it says in its explanation, it seems to us that this amendment actually contributes to the fact that the proposed concept of spatial and urban planning is implemented in the best possible way in spirit with this law. It was my attempt to convince you, however, to adopt this amendment to Article 43 as the ninth today to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15544	Thank you. Branka Bosnjak, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15545	I would like to say something about the proposed amendment. I'll try to make it as simple as possible, and more professionally explain why I don't think the amendment should be accepted. So there are different levels of planning documentation. The general plan is a strategic plan and it normally does not contain elements based on which any locational conditions can be given for the location permit. Since you don't have the elements, then he can't be the basis for publishing, and in that sense I think it's simply impossible to accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15546	Thank you. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Novica Tonchev, submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Karic submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Professor Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Snezana Malovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic submitted to the 46th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15547	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam President of the Assembly, Madam Minister, why I have come forward even though the amendment has been adopted and I thank you for that, and we are often witnessing that there are certain members who sound nice, have some purpose, and that purpose is usually known to those who propose the law, but that in practice they never live, so I have just intervened on this member of the law because it comes from previous laws, is not a new member, and has created a lot of ambiguity in practice and has never been applied. I believe and hope that, after this intervention, it will be clearer for the competent institutions that are obliged to issue permits, in particular this is about the possibility of renaming an object on the basis of what is planned when it comes to purposes that can be changed, i.e. compatible purposes. Those who have had a problem with the secretariats or in the application of this member in practice, I hope that they will understand well what it is about, and I will take it for granted that, given that there is still some doubt that this member of the law will be properly applied, so that in the coming month or two after the adoption of the law, we will find that it is still not applied properly, that through the competent committee we retain both the official interpretation from the ministry and that it is not directed by individuals but by the Minister directly to the authorities in charge of the construction of the urban project and the application of this member of the law, because it really would not be worth having this member left a dead letter on paper again, as it has been in practice for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15548	National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric submitted to the 47th amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15549	Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the submission of this amendment is to point to both the opposites and disagreements that exist in Article 47's position with Article 8j, where the competent authority has the obligation to only formally determine whether the documentation it receives is in accordance with the law or not and in this article is defined as saying that the body of the local self-government body in charge of urban affairs confirms that the urban project is not contrary to the current plan document and this law and the sublaws adopted under this law. Our proposal is that, instead of this formulation, which in some way is a negative and leads the investor into a serious problem, that the documentation is brought by the competent authority as if it were not in the opposite, the formulation is: "The unit of local self-government responsible for urban affairs confirms that the urban project has been designed in accordance with the urban plan, the spatial plan of the local self-government unit, i.e. the spatial plan of special purpose and this law." As far as attitude 5 is concerned, he's particularly interesting. Mrs. Mihajlovic, I think you should pay particular attention to him. The Commission for Plans is mentioned here again, and it is said: "The Commission for Plans is obliged to consider any objections and suggestions from the public presentation within eight days of the day of receipt of the dossier, etc." Our proposal is that the Commission for Plans is required to carry out a verification within 15 days of the compliance of the urban project with the plan document and this law, to consider any objections and suggestions from the public presentation and the opinion report to the competent authority. Why are we suggesting this? Given that in almost all local administrations, both in cities and in municipalities, the commission consists of nine members, that guests or members of that commission are people travelling from various cities, it is simply impossible for them to meet every few days. If you have an eight-day deadline to respond to the subject, to make changes, then it is practically a binding member of the law that requires these commissions to be present all the time in these cities and therefore we have proposed that the concept of the functioning of this commission be redefined in a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15550	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Snezana Malovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15551	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about an amendment that, unfortunately, is not accepted, and I think it is extremely important and that it could really give a certain quality, and even to be a kind of tool in the fight against corruption. What's this about? You know that when it comes to adopting an urban project, the project should go to the Committee on Plans, and the Committee on Plans consists of professional people from areas that also have years of experience with issues and planning and building objects. So I'm talking, first of all, about architects. The commission has a number of members, which is not small, and which is indeed more than competent to take a position on a specific urban project, and that is one necessary part of the practice. What we have proposed is that when this commission takes its position, or opinion on the urban project, its opinion is binding, binding and binding on the authority of the administration. I believe that this is legally possible, that this is and how it is possible, in particular, if such an obligation is laid down by law. Here we come to a rather absurd situation, that something that is accepted by the Committee of Plans, to repeat, made up of experts, from experts in this area, may happen that the Authority simply rejects for itself clear reasons, and is not expert enough or competent enough to be above the Committee of Plans. I think this order of steps is quite possible and quite good. It means that the opinion of the Committee on Plans is binding, on the one hand, of course, by the competent authority of the administration because we need to allow for the possibility of filing or appeal in the second degree and the conduct of an administrative dispute against the act of the Authority. This means that not only can it be the opinion of the committee, but I think it can be binding and it would really give equal quality, and I will repeat it once more, and that it would be significant when it comes to fighting corruption, because responsibility does not lie on one man who is possibly a secretary, assistant or deputy, who has the authority to sign a particular type of project, but on the whole panel of professional people who, in addition to real criminal responsibility, of course have a moral responsibility that is not small when it comes to colleagues whether in college or in the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15552	Thank you. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zolton Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Ivanovic and Mr. Dejan Radenkovic together submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Nationals Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Snezana Malovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15553	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, Article 50 refers to Article 68. The law also speaks of an elaborate, a geodetic elaborat, the correction of the borders of neighbouring parcels and the merger of two neighbouring parcels of the same owner. I've given an amendment with my colleagues on position 7. I'll read it to you so you can understand what I mean. So, when correcting the border of neighbouring parcels, the rule must be respected that the catastrian plot in public property that is attached to the neighbouring parcels meets the conditions for a special building plot, and that it is less than the plot to which it is attached. My proposal is to delete this last part of the sentence: "as if less than the land to which it is attached" for the simple reason that, according to the people of the Planning and Construction Administration of my city, it often happens that the plot, which is in social property, is surrounded by the parcels of private owners, and there is no contact with the public area, has no contact with the traffic station, so that if we insist that this parcel is larger than the plot to be attached to the decision, normally, planning management, the Commission for plans, the assembly of the given place, because it is a congregation decision to alienate state property, we can come to the situation that it is impossible to implement. I think it makes sense that this last part of the sentence is deleted so that there is no unused piece of land left, so to be clear, which is surrounded by private parcels. It cannot be a special plot, and this restriction that it is smaller than neighbouring parcels can only be one of the conditions that prevents the assignment of a congregation decision or the assignment of one of the owners who is interested in buying it from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15554	Thank you. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic together submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15555	Just to thank the Minister and the Government for adopting this amendment. I think it's a good thing it's done, because in this way we essentially changed Article 51 and we put that way and procedure for calling and implementing the urban and architectural competition closer to the mandated minister in charge of urban affairs. In this way, we seem to have confirmed that the regulation, which already exists and which the previous minister has brought and which has made it possible, for example, to build under the appropriate conditions of the future station in New Belgrade, is still in place, and that local self-government, as you know, does not have the professional capacity to prescribe such a rule since it is a legal and financial and complex matter. We are pleased that the rock this way agreed its views and that the minister was given the right to prescribe as head of the state administration segment for the state of Serbia a very important segment, as did previous Minister Dulic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15556	The 52nd amendment was filed by MP Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zharko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15557	The Honorable Chairman, just to thank Mrs. Minister and her associates for accepting this amendment. The amendment was very simple. I intended that measuring-regulatory gas stations, which represent one piece of equipment, should not be subject to the provisions on the formation of construction parcels, since this could indeed be a problem for the investor at the time such equipment was removed. Then he would have one such formed building plot and he would have to carry out such a procedure again. Since one of the equipment that is easily moved, I don't think these provisions should be applied. That's exactly why the government accepted the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15558	Thank you. Members of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 52nd Amendment were submitted by MP Suzanne Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 52. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric together submitted to the 53rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mr Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15559	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that Article 53, perhaps more than all the other members in this law that we have spoken of, speak precisely about the contradictions that this law has to do with certain laws and speak precisely in favour of what we have claimed and in the principle debate, that it was necessary and necessary to talk about or vote today about a special law or to sort of isolate certain parts of this law and to decide on them in particular. Given that this Article 53 is contrary to both the Law on Public Property and the Law on Legalisation, on State Prime Minister and Cataster, it is particularly contrary to the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, meaning that the deadline expires at the end of this year, on 31 December, we believe that it is necessary to adopt a special Law on legalisation and the way in which the parcel is established specifically for public property. In view of the negative effects that this law is about which I have talked about lastly or brought into practice in Serbia, above all in terms of legalisation, given how much trouble it is open about the destruction of illegal objects primarily on other people's parcels or particularly on public property parcels, we felt that it was necessary for this member to be deleted, to be defined in particular, and to improve the amendments we have proposed in the previous part of the debate and in those we will discuss further, the proposed members and the DS amendments are respected and thus to improve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15560	Thank you. Members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Professor Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 54th amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together MPs Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo and joint MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić, together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15561	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Mihajlovic and respected guests from the Ministry, we propose to delete the member of the 54th, and this is one of the few amendments that has been formulated this way in relation to this bill. We had bill proposals here that we thought every member should delete, they were so bad. We don't have such a situation here, but Article 54, which is actually abolished by the Republic Space Planning Agency, we think it should be deleted. We don't think that's a good solution. Here, if it's possible to think all together further about it. I can offer a few additional reasons why I think it's good that the Agency exists. I also read the government's explanation for refusing this amendment. It explains - the amendment is not accepted because these changes allow for the implementation of reforms and the rationalisation of the state administration. I don't agree with the good part, Mrs. Mihajlovic. I don't think it's useful to shut down the Space Planning Agency for two reasons. One, at the Republic Space Planning Agency, should, as a rule, have some experts singled out in one special body, work, give suggestions, suggest, comment. Now, if we're going to delete that agency, and it's all being transferred to the Ministry, I think now we're losing some kind of independence of the work of those experts, professionals, who should be giving their courts what we're discussing here. Another thing, if the problem was a name, since we have a name, it seems to me, one resistance to the term "age" to be called a body, we could change that name, so we could call it for example. The space planning office, but just to provide one space to the experts, so that they can work independently, so autonomously, normally. If I can make another argument about this attitude here, I've been thinking like this – it's possible that this idea to abolish the Agency came because of the belief that there was a bad frame, that there might be dissatisfaction with the work of some people, but I don't think there should be a reason to remove one body, one agency. By that logic, for example. We could, for some reasons, sometimes misbehaving to end the congregation. We can't put an end to institutions because of poor staffing, poor governance, and because someone as an individual has done bad work. I think that this idea that deletes all these members from 71 to 81, and actually abolishs the Republic Space Planning Agency is bad, and if it's possible that once again, facing arguments, let's think about whether we can keep the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15562	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15563	I don't think there's a question here of what they're called names and last names, but the question here is completely different. You've been given a brief explanation, and I'll explain the explanation. This agency is not a regulatory body, and I totally don't care if it's called an agency, an office or a administration, we don't have a name problem. But the Ministry already has a sector that deals with the same business. The agency as a body that's not a regulatory body, there's no need to double jobs and there's no need to spend 400,000 more than we'd spend. So there's no need for us to have the same thing in two places. Furthermore, this applies to other agencies, offices and administrations that are not regulatory bodies. She certainly needs to be questioned. We've done the analysis. The analysis has shown that it is much better for all these experts to move to the ministry and work, therefore, all the international documents made between the agency or any institution to be taken over by the Serbian government and will technically work by the ministry. There won't be any discontinuity in the work or any of those jobs or projects that the Agency is doing. But I am absolutely sure that it will be much more quality and that there will be no problems and mistakes that we have established in the past few months on very serious projects that this agency has been doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15564	Mr. Jovan Markovic, by amendment, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15565	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in the principle debate, I also felt that this topic should be considered very seriously and in detail. In view of the arguments made by Minister Mihajlovic here, I believe it was necessary, if there were any failures in the work of that agency, if there were failures in the work of the officials or if there were any costs that were inadmissible, it was necessary that these parts of the agency be corrected, but that the concept was maintained. If Mrs. Mihajlovic says that saving 400,000 euros is the only argument by abolishing this agency, then it would be good to hear what that savings consists of. If it also consists of employees' salaries, she has just said that employees are being transferred to the ministry, to a special sector, so that part of the savings practically remains at a further cost and there is no savings. If, too, the concept that the planning documentation is formed in the Central Register of Catastras, then the question arises – how many people will be employed in the work of that central register, and then the second question opens, which is – how many people will be employed by the Agency for Business Registers and how many costs will we have in these jobs? The question is specifically raised here – who will be doing the tasks that were the authority of this agency in the coming period? I was present, in the past few years, when the Spatial Planning Agency held a presentation and a public debate in the application of previous laws and I think that the people who ran the agency during that period, from 2008 to 2012, were very professional, that they respected all the requirements of both the regions and local administrations for their development. The question arises, if we enter 2015, if it is necessary to create a new spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia in 2020, who will do these jobs if we cancel this agency? What opens up as a special topic is the formation of these central registers and I know that Minister Mihajlovic will give answers that there will be several people. My impression, given how many building permits are issued in local administrations, is that we don't need more than one man, given, again, that not only in municipalities, but also cities, which have about 100,000 inhabitants, are issued annually by seven, eight, up to ten permits. So I think the job of these people will be easier, but it's not a subject. I guess the theme is that we're developing, trying to improve local administrations, and that's why I think this agency makes sense, and it needs to stay working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15566	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15567	Thank you. I propose that the amendments in the same text that we are currently discussing be rejected for the reasons that we have seen in the reasoning of the member of the law itself, in the text that has arrived in the National Assembly, for the reasons that we have been able to hear and now from the minister. So, first of all, it's about the rationalization process. Since we haven't heard anything that goes against the rationalization approach, we've only heard that the work that this agency's been doing was good, that it's about professional people, etc., but nothing about whether there's a need for the same job in two places. I think the rationalization argument is more than clear. There's no good reason to bring free order into the system. On the contrary, what is one of the main intensities, not only of this law, but of this government in general, is to lead to a certain degree of efficiency that this country needs. To all of that, we were able to hear, have savings, benefit more than clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15568	Thank you. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need to pass laws and other acts on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric submitted together to the 55th amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15569	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, in Article 55, in the amended Article 83nd position 2, after the words "sacon", we suggest that the word "no matter what the authority responsible for enrolling in immovable property and rights on them has not made a change in the public book on the record of immovableity and rights". So that part is deleted. As regards Article 55, in the amended Article 90(3), following the words “in which buildings are built”, the words “with a building permit” are added. Dear Minister, I really don't understand why this amendment has not been accepted. The intention was, given that here you at least tried to bring this member into line with some previous laws, to define the status of buildings, which have a building permit, which are not finished. I'm starting from the fact that a large part of the buildings in Serbia, which were built 20, 30 years ago, were done with a building permit, were not completed for some reason, but that does not mean that people stepped down from a building permit or had no documentation. So this is also about objects owned by natural persons, there are objects owned by the state. There are examples of a big dam that was done 20 years and some years or 30 years ago. It's not met until the end of every condition in the building permit. So the facility isn't finished until the end. We had a big dilemma first whether to place these objects in built or unbuilt land. The proposal is precisely because the buildings are not finished until the end, to be in this part of the position 2. Unbuilt land and means, it is a proposal to be a position to read – "Unbuilt building land is a land on which no buildings have been built, on which buildings without a building permit and temporary buildings are built." So, behind the words, "units without" stand with a "building permit", or behind the word "objects" to stand "with a building permit". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15570	Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Snezana Malović, Dr Blagoje Bradić and academician Ninoslav Stojadinović. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15571	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, Article 55. The amendment of the law on planning and construction concerns members of the original law, between Articles 82 and 106. Our amendment concerns Article 88 and Article 97. So, for the citizens of 88, he's talking about the plan document, i.e. change the purpose of agricultural land into building land. The authority responsible for the adoption of a plan document shall, within 15 days of the date of entry into force of that document, submit an act to the authority responsible for the tasks of the national diameter and the catastra containing the list of cadastrian parcels to which the purpose has been changed. Article 2 states that the authority responsible for the tasks of the national diameter and the catastra shall carry out the resulting change and make a note of the obligation to pay compensation for the change of the purpose of the agricultural land in the immovableity catastra database from which the immovableity list is issued. Looking at these two positions, we have proposed a change because, by changing the land's planning purposes, landowners around the inhabited areas are bound by a tax settlement to pay taxes on building land, whose amounts are multiplely higher than tax revenues from agriculture. In translation, it means everything that the planning documents have to do with future construction plots, i.e. payments for construction, and agricultural land, at the moment of transition from one purpose to another, paperwork, will be burdened by an increased tax due to the assumed higher value of land, although these parcels continue to be processed. What we have proposed is that this change in tax duties occurs only when there is a fundamental change in the purpose of the parcel, and we have proposed that the authority responsible for the affairs of the national diameter and the land cadastre in the public property should carry out the resulting change and make a note of the obligation to pay a fee for the change in the purpose of agricultural land in the basis of the cataster data, the immovableity from which the list of immovableities is issued. The following is the view: “The Organ is responsible for matters of national diameter and land cadastre that are not in public property. “ So, in public property, it goes automatically and differently by valorizing that land, but when it comes to private land, the authority responsible for state-owned and non-public land cadasar affairs, with a view to writing a note without delay to change the purpose of land from agricultural to catastra-based databases, the immovable property from which the property sheet is issued, with the solution to which the change takes place only at the request of the party, and before the issue of a building permit and after the payment of compensation for the change in the purpose of agricultural land. The authority referred to in Article 3 shall, within 30 days of the entry into the notice, notify the owner of the land of the completed entry, which I think is one of the basic reasons for the man to whom the change of purpose has been made to be notified. You don't have that in law. Here, well-respected colleagues and dear citizens of what they have responded to from the government and from the ministry - the amendment is not accepted, because regardless of the shape of the property on the building land, it is not possible to issue a building permit until proof is provided that a change in the purpose of the construction land is paid, as prescribed by the position of the 5th member whose amendment is not proposed. Gentlemen, I didn't even suggest it. I don't know if you've read what we've given you, we've only asked that, in the case of a change in the purpose of agricultural land for other purposes, not directly taxed as a building land if the farmer continues to sow corn, but to be the moment when the essential change of purpose is made when he asks for a building permit. Then, before he got a building permit he paid re-use, and until then the man paid taxes on agricultural land. I don't see what's not logical and what's not acceptable. Why would people be taxed for something that could be, but in his case, he's not still sowing corn, not building walls. Why pay for a re-purpose when he hasn't practically brought in the land yet? That was it. The next Article 97 speaks of a contribution to the construction land and in paragraph 7 says – an investor providing adequate funds for payment security shall have the right to pay the amount of contribution to the construction land in at least 36 months of war, and the investor who pays the compensation once before submitting the gender application shall be entitled to a reduction of at least 30% in accordance with the decision of the units of local self-government. We asked for a change in what cash payments were all of a sudden to be 45% for the simple reason why, in the city of Nis, until now, this law was 45% for cash payments, in Belgrade, and despite those benefits, we didn't have increased construction activity, and only now will we be disabling those who want to build it up in full, but they'll all go to war pay, if they get rid of it at all. I think our proposal was, to put it this way, to inherit the right of someone who has been so far, and it was quite logical that those cities, local self-governments who made such decisions, were given the opportunity to continue to have such a decision and such a benefit for those who came to build on their territory. The next attitude is very interesting when you are looking at this attitude, says – the contribution to the planning of construction land is not calculated for public-service buildings in the public property of the infrastructure of manufacturing and storage spaces, underground garages, high-building facilities, space intended for the construction of vehicles, substations, transforming stations, storage rooms, laundry rooms and the like, except for parts of the underground floor used for commercial activity, etc. And there's just one more thing I'd like to ask you from the ministry, and what have you forgotten about the economic facilities? What's the problem? On the one hand, you're reducing the possibility that whoever's building the house gets benefit if he pays the utility all of a sudden. On the other hand, the one that builds the production hall in the storeroom, especially when it comes to the manufacturing hall where municipal equipment is more expensive when making private facilities. We release them, and when we have to charge the farmer for walling the barn, the barn, or some farm, he'll pay for the utility. Let's be clear, if you're already breaking the Constitution, you're bringing the citizens into an unequal position, because on the one hand, an ordinary citizen who's got a real house to pay the communals in full, the one who's building a production hall to be profitable won't pay, so we who build houses and pay apartments will pay for the one who makes the factory to make a profit, okay, that's your political decision, but then you include farmers who want to grow pigs, get bulls, whatever they do, make chicken farms. We're going to tax them to charge them utility, and those who make warehouses and factories will have communal equipment at the expense of those of us who pay for that equipment. Why are you making such a decision? What's the reason? Who did you draw in this law that you had to bring it in? What do you have against the development of the village? We're all full of mouths that we want our economy to develop, well, let's develop, let's give people a chance that if they decide to build a farm, at least pay less and have a better chance of investing in what they need to start some production. We have a constitutional problem with this member of the law. We're putting an unequal position on the part of the citizens of Serbia, but others are going to judge, not me. I'm not a lawyer to judge if it's something 100% constitutional, but I think this is against the constitution. I think you should consider accepting these two amendments to Article 88. In 97, I think they're meaningful, especially members of 88th and 97th. One gives an incentive and what you're saying is politically forming in your statements, to realistically show in practice what it looks like. To repeat, if a local self-government had 45% reduction in cash payments for municipal equipment in obtaining a building permit, Belgrade had 50%, why do you cancel it? At the same time, in the same Belgrade and Nis, someone who makes a production hall, where it has to be a stronger trafo, a stronger cross-section of water, a cross-section of sewers, infrastructure equipment is much more expensive, it will be without paying taxes. On whose burden? And to accept that, we need jobs and we will, but why don't you give it to agriculture? What's the reason? When you refused, this first part of someone who wrote probably wasn't imaginative enough so he didn't know what to write, but the second part didn't answer at all why you're refusing the amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15572	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15573	Without a desire to demonstrate imagination, very specifically, the reasons for refusing to refuse this amendment. Personally, I think there's a good enough reason at the proposed percentage to be reduced in case of single use. The proposed percentage by the amendment promoter here is 45%, the original proposal is 30%. I believe that it is necessary to leave wider limits for the assessment of possible reductions which I certainly refer to the text of the law as proposed, is made in accordance with the decision of the unit of local self-government. Let's look at the last sentence of this paragraph, at least 30%, and in line with the decision of local self-government. Is such a proposal putting into danger some measure of stimulation that, as we were able to hear, has already been adopted by certain units of local self-government? No, I don't. This amendment proposes 45%, possibly, and at least 30%, means that 45, if such a decision is made, 50% that some of the existing solutions that we were able to hear about earlier were not questioned again. So 30% at least, and 50%, depends on a concrete decision. I think we need to leave space wide enough for local self-government units to decide on this issue. Yeah, sometimes 50% sounds tempting, and then in practice it turns out that maybe it's not interesting enough. At times, 30% where, for God's sakes, it's said to be colloquial, there'll be enough interest to be enough again to make that interest of the initiative, to further expand it, and to make it through these compensation measures again. The answer to all the questions why certain solutions in this amendment that are very complex and very comprehensive are not adopted should be sought in the last sentence that we received in the Government's opinion. I'm instructing the Proposer to take a good look at the last sentence. She explicitly says, “The amendment cannot be accepted in part and suggests more than one time. ” So, even those things that deserve attention couldn't be accepted by selecting such a methodology, that everything is given in one package through one amendment. Otherwise, another note. Solutions have been found to adopt certain good things after all. First of all, I am referring to the final proposal of this amendment, which has been adopted through the proposal under the Committee's amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15574	According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15575	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm a little surprised, given that Mr. Bradic's party president was an exceptional lawyer and minister of justice, so I'm surprised that the amendment cannot be accepted because of technical shortcomings, or because he proposes to amend several members. I expected a more precise amendment and I don't think it's Mr. Bradic's fault, but I will vote for the amendment for moral reasons. The amendment promoter is right about agricultural land. I am sorry that the amendment is imprecise and that it is affecting several members and cannot be accepted as such, because a single amendment cannot be accepted in part. It can be fully accepted or not accepted. So I say, given that the partial adoption of the amendment is unacceptable, for moral reasons, I will vote in favour of the amendment. As president of the People's Peasants' Party, I agree with the proponent's explanation, especially because there are municipalities of local self-government that are hundreds and thousands of hectares of agricultural land just fictitiously translated into construction, with the aim, above all, to collect tax on property paid on building land at a far greater amount than on agricultural land. So there are villages and settlements where almost all the atoms are foreseen as working and industrial zones, and for decades nothing on that building land has been built. It would be okay to introduce a property tax on building land only after a change of purpose, and until then, the land used for agricultural production is treated at least in terms of the property tax. I proposed to Mr Dinkic that amendment a year and a few days ago, when we were here fortifying property taxes. It would be good if, when it is not already built, when a man can no longer pay a tax on property that can per hectare reach several hundred euros, because it is 0.4%, as far as I remember, of value, so some land worth 5,000 euros agriculturally, and when it is transferred to a building plot worth 100 or 200 thousand, then someone who is located in a building zone of 10 hectares can be very easy, and agriculture is a difficult area, to get into a situation to pay 200, 300, 400 euros per hectare, which at five or 10 hectares can be thousands of euros. He's not able to pay for it, and local self-government has no obligation. It would be good if they did. In any case, I would not mind charging a tax on property, that one who can no longer pay the tax on property, that this agricultural land declared by the local self-government has the right to apply for the estimated amount of construction land to local self-government, and that it again has the obligation to establish that land declared by a building purchase at the price it declared at the time of payment of the property tax, i.e. by zones. So in such a situation, I would have full understanding for local self-governments who want several hundred and thousands of acres to declare construction zones, industrial zones, no matter how confident they are themselves that they can never make so many construction and industrial zones. In such situations, we would not have one Belgrade, but would have at least 20 cities with more than a million inhabitants by the amount of agricultural land declared as building land. These are the reasons why I will vote for this amendment for moral reasons. The second reason is – after saying: "production and storage facilities", the words "and economic facilities" are added because the amendment promoter has proposed reliefs on economic facilities, especially in the country. Since we have problems for a pighouse, a henhouse, an barn, we need construction permits a small million, as if we're building a hotel rather than an economic facility in the village that needs to serve agricultural production and later as raw materials for the processing industry, in such a way that we make a cheaper agricultural and food product that we can market with and thus make an additional value. Since the goods are money, by producing these goods in a certain way they would all come to the distribution of a surplus and no longer live on the distribution of a smaller one. With that in mind, I was saying in principle last time that it would be good for the Ministry of Construction, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, to make a difference so that agricultural facilities, primarily farms, can rise on agricultural land, because we have a non-sension that in some local self-government we have agricultural land that is declared to be built hundreds of hectares, and in some other local self-governments, where they should be farms, that's agricultural land, and then we need a change of the regulation plan, a bunch of plan board papers, a few sessions of local parliaments, to get the right to deal with livestock farming and to build farms. Since we have recently been victims of conflict and sanctions between Russia and Europe, to CEFTA countries and to our market that is exposed to agricultural products outside, therefore, by falling customs duties, we have become the target of dumping imports or imports of agricultural products at dumped prices. With that in mind, we have to do everything we can to cheap our agricultural production. I think the promoter had good intentions when he suggested making economic facilities easier. I propose that these types of farms be allowed to, as once was built, salashi, make farms on agricultural land, of course, by standards prescribed by the construction and agriculture ministry, to fully respect the environmental protection and other standards that are foreseen, due to possible EU entry. So, that this type of type of farm, where it would not only produce meat, milk, wool, etc., but also electricity, that in such a way we would try to cheape our agricultural production, because the mind paid by our own experience is very expensive. If we continue this way, we are currently in a situation where, because of the circumstances already mentioned, because of the dumping of imports at dumped prices, we are in a situation where we have no one to sell the pig, that we have no one to sell the chicken, that because Europe is highly subsidized agricultural products being introduced into our market, we are currently imported over 350,000 pieces of pigs in the first 11 months of this year, and if it continues like this, we are obliged to try to cheapen our agricultural production in any way, including this bill, because, if we continue, the future of agriculture and villages will be a disaster. These are all moral reasons, despite the fact that the amendment is not technically enforceable, which is why I will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15576	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15577	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I thank you for your support of my colleague Rističević. I'm reading the materials I'm getting and what I've given with my MP group as a proposal to amend the Ministry's Bill of Law is meaningful to us. I'm deeply convinced that 45% should be the lower limit when liberating those who pay cash, that's one thing. Secondly, I think the ministry should have recognized everything that is good in these proposals and amendments to their proposals, because I think we need to free people from paying taxes on property where that asset value is fictitious, not realistic, because if someone plantes corn and wheat, they don't have benefits from that country like it's a parcel, a plot or whatever you call it, he can't make that income so he can pay that tax. On the other hand, I think it is necessary to allow our fellow citizens in the rural area to have the same benefits in building production facilities from their activities as those who do so in cities and the surrounding cities. At the end of the line, respected colleagues, that's what we pay from the city budgets, the equipment of these industrial zones, as we now call them popularly, and someone's going to get that equipment for free. Now I ask – why wouldn't someone get it in the country? The one who came here to build next to the city, he's going to have an enormous profit, which is why he's making a factory to make a profit, not for the pretty eyes, and, on the other hand, the one who does it in the country is that his family stays on the village land and has something to live on. I would very much like to accept that part of my money that I'm spending on the city budget goes for that purpose, and I think that if the ministry had any good will, it might have found a way to correct these members of the law. I don't think the law is perfect at all, if some law has 230 and change members and has 200 amendments, of which it must be 30 of yours, the congregation majority, then you can imagine what that law is like. I don't know what happened in the last three days, that the government itself gives 15 or 13 amendments, I don't know what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15578	National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15579	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment speaks of the use of funds to arrange construction land. I don't think the law has determined in a sufficiently precise way how these funds are used and spent by local self-government. I think the amendment contributes to the proposal to adopt a specific programme under which these funds will be spent, and to adopt the programme at the local self-government unit assembly, to contribute to the transparent spending of these funds. The explanation that I have received that the amendment is not accepted, because it unwarrantedly penetrates the original jurisdiction of local self-government units does not make much sense. I don't think you've even written it, Mrs. Mihajlovic, because it is quite clear that the legislator should determine the procedure for spending these funds. As the Law on Agricultural Land deals with and speaks of the adoption of a programme for the regulation of agricultural land, it is necessary in the same way to address this issue in the Law on Planning and Construction. Also in your jurisdiction, the Transport Safety Act says how a programme is adopted for the use of funds that are purposely defined for the purpose of traffic security. It is also necessary to regulate the procedure concerning the use of funds to regulate urban building land, because in this way we will fully respect the Budgetary System Law, fully respect the anti-corruption strategy, because we will have a completely transparent view of the way these funds are spent and will be fully available to local committees and residents and citizens who separate funds for these purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15580	Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15581	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Mrs Mihajlović and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, we have submitted an amendment to Article 55, which is being amended by members from 82 to 106, and our proposal concerns one attitude of amended Article 97. For this amendment, I have noticed one thing, perhaps I've been watching laymanically, so please tell me if I was wrong, but in one position in Article 97, as amended, that's attitude 5 -- the unit of local self-government no later than 30 November of the current year determines the coefficients of Article 2 of this article. This is how I thought, since it's been 30 November, maybe I'm wrong somewhere, you're going to tell me, then I thought it couldn't stay that way on November 30th, so we suggested it should be written by December 30th. Of course, I then reviewed the bill until the end, so I finally found a provision in Article 133 where it writes – units of local self-government are required to establish the coefficients set out in Article 97(2) of this Act within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law and to adopt the general act referred to in Article 97(7) of this Act. Then I assumed that this was the case this year, so all those coefficients from Article 2, Article 97 that couldn't be passed until November 30, because we were in December, that it was then left for 30 days. Then I thought further this way, it's not right maybe in two places that we have that provision in the law when something needs to be arranged, but let's agree to stand just one. Since we are already in December, why not stand until December 30th, and this year, the current, until December 30th, that units of local self-government can determine these coefficients that should have been determined? I've also read your explanation, I haven't convinced myself that I've made a mistake, but if I am, here's a chance to convince me now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15582	National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15583	Madam President, Your Honor, I have submitted an amendment to article 55 in the area where the investor pays a contribution instead of a fee for city building land. I was already saying in the principle debate that local self-governments, where we agreed, have reduced funds when compensation is lifted, and introduces a contribution to paying city building land, gives an additional advantage to the investor that if he pays at least 30%, that's what other colleagues have said, he gets a reduction of that amount, but then, to me, something difficult is acceptable as someone who has managed local self-government for a long time, that there is an additional possibility at the 36-month war. With all the reliefs you've given and the reliefs that I find justified for future investors and the reliefs in cash payments, he considers it indispensable to give the opportunity for 36 wars. That is why I am asking in my amendment that it be on 12 months of war, how long it takes one financial year and how many local self-governments are ultimately planning budgets. This morning when we had the Committee on Spatial Planning, where I brought this problem myself, I received at least verbal support from your associates, the distinguished State Secretary of State Mr. Trifunović and Mrs. Damnjanovic, who then said it depends on your attitude. Since, once again, honourable minister, I think that local self-government has already been well-delivered and will bear the burden of this law, they will implement 90% of the items in this law, they already have a decrease in their local budgets. Another argument, 36 months of war, believe me, do you know how much in Serbia in 36 months an investor can financially fail? They give a guarantee, a bond, and now someone starts building and failing for 20 months or a year. When a city or local self-government will be able to find and collect, for example, the rest of the war that is 18 or 20 wars. Trust me, this is too long a time period. We're bringing in this kind of policy, we're putting in danger that local self-governments can function normally and be, say, financially independent. I'm afraid this is a good part, a solution like this, with this number of war financial collapses on local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15584	Prof. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 55. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 55th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Susan Spasojevic and Master Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15585	Dear Prime Minister Mihajlovic, members, representatives of the ministry, frankly, I expected you to adopt this amendment, as it could remove any consequences that would result from the abandonment of cooperative property as a form of property in the event of the exchange of building land between owners. The cooperative property is an equal form of property with private and public property, as well as a member of 86. The Constitution guarantees equality of all forms of property. What you, among other things, have predicted by this law but have not consistently implemented, and I fear that abandoning cooperative property would affect, for example, the property of a residential cooperative, etc. So I ask you to reconsider adopting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15586	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15587	So you're absolutely right, and I accept the amendment with the correction, so which one was given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15588	Thank you. The 55th Amendment was filed by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, submitted to Article 55 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted to the 58th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted to the 65th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Master Dejan Radenkovic together submitted to the 65th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Master Dejan Radenkovic together submitted to the 66th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic submitted to the 67th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Ivan Markovic, together submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Master Dejan Radenkovic together submitted to the 67th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national letter from Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15589	The Honorable President, Madam Minister, means I only wanted to point out in some exchange of information with the services that the member here refers to the main project, and in Article 64 of the Law, we no longer have the main project. We have, therefore, a general project, an idea solution, an idea project, a project to build, a project to implement, and there is no concept of a major project. So you're planning to launch a major project or something? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15590	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15591	So, technically, it's a mistake. Of course, the main project is not being introduced, so it will be regulated in the legal and technical order.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15592	Members of the 69th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Novica Tonchev, submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Jovanovic, Gordana Komic and the magistrate, Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 71st Amendment, with a correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs, Novica Tonchev, submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Master Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 74th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic jointly submitted to the 75th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic jointly submitted to the 76th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 78th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic together submitted to the 79th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word about this amendment? (Yes) The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15593	I thank the president. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the honourable minister, respected guests, therefore, Article 79 is amended and it is said that, above all, the building permit is issued at the request of the investor who delivers an idea or main project has the right to land and property and has paid the corresponding administrative fees. Also, I do not read the whole change since it will take more time, as an appropriate right on land is considered the right to property, the right to lease on building land in public property as well as other rights prescribed by this law. This is, therefore, the essence of the adoption of the Law on Planning and Construction, i.e. the amendments and additions, and we have also pointed to this in principle debate for the simple reason that this is not only a scandalous member of the law and not only that this is the essence of the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. This is a sort of violation of the Constitution, and the DS will review the constitutionality assessment before the Constitutional Court, when it comes to this law, exclusively because of a member who, in this way, is created and opened up an opportunity for unprecedented corruption that has never been seen in the history of this country. I'll explain why. This opens the door by telling the tycoons to get to the land for free. So, it's not about the conversion with compensation, it's not about the conversion without compensation, it's about the right to use on land that was acquired in various robbery privatisations where now someone on that land can get a building permit, build certain buildings, sell these same facilities and thus earn their profits, which is not according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This devises property on land, since the prerogative of property rights is granted and the right to use, which is legally completely pointless. This also fully devises the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. So, if the user can build apartments and business premises at the site of a privatised company, he will build and sell apartments and bars. After the sale, the investor and the third party who are customers will no longer be interested in obtaining property rights on land. I know, yes, Mr. Mrkonjic, who listens very closely to this, so the state will sooner or later and the largest cities and largest municipalities in Serbia will be denied hundreds, hundreds, if not billions of euros in the long term. This is something that is totally shocking and scandalous. In this way not only do we send a message to those who are in robbery privatisations at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, privatise certain companies whose basic activity has been shut down, now they have the right to use, as they have so far on that land, but so far the existing law has not been able to obtain a building permit, and now they can do so locational, or locational conditions, as it is now called in the amendment and addition of this law. We think that's how 90 of them go back to the big door. We think that we are further dissuasing those who have been fired from their jobs, who are victims of poor privatisation, during that period of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, where in one way additional message is sent to them that there is no justice in this country, that those who have sown a huge fortune in these privatisations are opening up to them today the possibility of a hundred times greater wealth being created because of this way that you have arranged this law. We think this is a scandalous solution. We have heard that in the first quarter of 2015, the law on conversion will be passed, but on the question in the principle of what it is until then, whether it is possible to issue a local permit, or local conditions, and therefore, of course, a building permit, and those who have proposed this law have said that this is possible. What happens to those who have paid businesses, a few dozen million since adoption, or eight days, their assets will be worth billions and billions of euros in potential. This is the thing where one way is bypassing the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, where in one way those who are victims of poor privatisation are placed as citizens of a completely different order, and I think this is an opportunity to examine once again the constitutionality of this law, because this is the amendment which DS proudly submitted, because it introduces order into constitutional order, legislation, this kind of thing must not happen, this kind of thing will cause, not only in the 1990s, to return to a large door, but to knock down that door and to be much worse than it was in the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15594	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15595	So you've said so many things amazing, and it's just even more amazing that you're talking from the DS. It's great that you're talking, I don't know why you're throwing it at me, I'd like to answer to Mr. Bozovic who said this, that the victims of poor privatisation are now citizens of the second order, because we, precisely taxingly, are determined by one, two, three, four, in Article 102, determine who gets the right to build, but without property rights. Let me tell you, these victims of poor privatisation didn't make SNS, unfortunately, did you and what you did in the previous period generally for this society, which is why you lost the election. Because citizens have seen how malignuous and how you treat Serbian citizens in the first place. You of Serbian citizens have made this law, the first to make Dulic, what we call him, from citizens of second-class citizens. So you did it with the Law on Planning and Construction, which basically existed. As for persons who have the right to build, who do not have the right to property, do not deceive the public, they do not have the right to property, but they have the right to build, if that is decided by the urban plan. These are, therefore, exactly written to you – persons who bear the right to use, so from privatising the bankruptcy of the executive procedure, persons who carry the right to use the building land whose position is defined by law, which regulates sport, as well as other associations, Annex G to the Agreement on Succession Issues and so forth. So they have the right to build. That's the first thing. Second thing, you also said they were coming back in the '90s. I suppose in that sense, when you said they were coming back in the '90s, you had a certain message on the side of this government. If it is, then you'll explain it to us, because I think this government has done in six months as much as you haven't done in the last 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15596	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15597	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15598	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15599	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is that the SNS has done a lot for the last two and a half years, cut salaries and pensions, and many people have lost their jobs...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15600	Sir, you didn't ask for a replica, I gave you the word after the amendment. Then you'll talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15601	By amendment? All right. Thank you. We are discussing and discussing an amendment that is fundamentally related to this law and to the times in which we live today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15602	Yeah, but you'll be talking by amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15603	We think this amendment is essential...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15604	As long as I'm the chairman, everyone will be talking by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15605	So it is essential that this amendment, President of the Assembly, is for the simple reason that in one particular way it makes it impossible for robbers to privatise to further gain their wealth and increase their wealth. That amendment was filed by the DS. I would not want it to be clear to the citizens of Serbia, even though we had the opportunity to hear about the bad so-called. The 2009 law that made it impossible for robbers to privatize to get what you allowed them to do. And when, if we're true to will, we're completely open to the end, let's say things, if we're already talking about privatisations, as I recall in 2004, you were a member of the URS. The government of Vojislav Kostunica... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15606	Ambassador, I thank you. When you look for a replica, you will kindly receive a replica, but the abuse of a replica carries, or abuse of a word based on another basis, certain consequences. Thank you. If you're done after the amendment, if you want to continue at the time in which you have the amendment, of course you'll talk. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: How much time do I have left? Turn on my mic. You have plenty of time per amendment, and by some other basis you have no time at all. You've shut yourself out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15607	I didn't really turn myself off on my own, but okay. This amendment is important for the simple reason that we really think that unless it is adopted, some bad times will return to a big door in Serbia. I think that out of the 24 privatisations, the 23 that were in the period of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, they are fully confirmed here that, with this proposal, they amend and supplement the Law on Planning and Construction, they can today increase their wealth tenfold, that all those things that were unfair and abolishing basic activity in privatisations, just to build something on that land, are today being made possible. I think that the so-called Dulic Law was a law that dealt with this issue in a certain way, and I'm not going into other provisions, and I'm not going into those provisions that I said myself in the debate in the principle that the DS supported as a proposal for this law that further accelerates someone to get a building permit. We'll see about that in the period ahead of us, so of course we'll discuss it in the future, but certainly in the part about tycoon disabling. Oliver Dulic's 2009 law has clearly defined this matter in a way that it was not possible to happen without a conversion with a fee and today we have this dilemma whether or not a conversion is needed with or without compensation, I am not going to enter or plead, but I think that conversion is necessary, because without or without the conversion of land with or without compensation, tycoons will not pay even the property tax when it comes to the land they have been given the right to use in privatisation. And here, first of all, I address not those who privatised businesses, but those disputed privatisations, not those who successfully privatised enterprises, not those privatisations that further encouraged the Serbian economy to grow, and that is what DS is proud of, but the privatisations that robbed Serbia, where 1,000 and 1,000 workers were left out of work just to get the opportunity to use land on today, to build millions and millions of squares. It is not under the Constitution of Serbia, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and therefore the DS will review the constitutionality of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15608	Thank you. The word is made by Master Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15609	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15610	What replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15611	The Minister's office.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15612	He answered, you don't have the right to reply, do you want to talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15613	Well, you just said he's talking about the amendment, and I'm using a request to pick up the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15614	Well, you've been given the right to speak of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15615	Okay. Thank you. The President-in-Office, when an MP from the DS asks perhaps a fundamental and crucial issue of applying this law in terms of opening up the topic, whether there is a possibility that during the first half of the following year, until the application of this law, these processes will open up and lead to people who have bought certain enterprises getting permits to build themselves into the process to become owners of an object. In the principle debate, we talked about article 135a, which speaks of investors being able to obtain a building permit, prior to that locational conditions, a building permit, a used permit, etc., and only then prove property to parcels, i.e. to do a redistribution where they combine parcels. So, these few points of the law open the issue of corruption, raise the question of whether it is possible for these abuses to occur during that period and instead of getting answers or services or ministers to these issues, we are again getting accusations that during the previous period it has been done in such a way, and I, Mrs. Mihajlovic, invite you to remember your presentation in the principle part of the debate where you have just confirmed by your presentation that this authority has reduced 7% to 8% of annual construction activities and business activities in Serbia. You just said that in 2009, there were about 19,000 apartments that were sold in Serbia, and in 2013, it was 672 apartments. The Democratic Party, Madam Chairman, has tried to point out in this debate exactly the context and circumstances that decisions are being made, the laws in which the services are being handled in Serbia, we have tried to prove that precisely because you have brought hundreds of people who have come to some leading places, and that they do not know what it is, that you have brought 1,000 of your party listeners to decide on Serbian citizens, and that they are not competent for certain tasks, that this is exactly the context and circumstances that have led us to live in a major crisis, in addition to the measures that have been marked by your two years of authority, by these people and those personnel who decide on your behalf and on behalf of the Serbian citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15616	Shall we get back to the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15617	... They make these laws don't have real application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15618	Thank you. We will not call the members of any party obedient. Under the constitution, they have the right to be politically determined and to be members of the DS. Thank you. The word has Alexander Markovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15619	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I suggest, of course, that the proposed amendment, the amendment to Article 79, for the same reasons why the Government proposed the refusal of this amendment, but what I cannot go beyond, is the mention of one term of "the robbery of privatisation" and that would not be such a problem that this mention of the term does not come from MPs directly belonging to the political party, the party of the former regime...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15620	Ambassador, you've been granted an amendment, only an amendment, you haven't asked for a replica, and I won't let you replicate it without asking for it. By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15621	Thank you for warning me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15622	Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, Zoran Babic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic together submitted the amendment to the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branko Bosnjak submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Here you go, Dragan Jovanovic, I'm looking at the wrong side.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15623	President, already this morning, I've been distracted by the system once...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15624	Because you phoned, you used your cell phone, you didn't pay attention, and I did. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15625	You're wrong, but that's the second time. I have submitted an amendment in Article 79 which changes the name of the member and Article 135 after the term "for the construction of line infrastructure facilities as proof of the relevant law is considered... "and the words "the rightful or final expropriation solution" are changed by the words "the act of the competent authority which has established public interest in accordance with the specific law". Why did I propose this amendment? The main reason for the proposed amendment is that the draft law does not in any way provide for the specific status of line infrastructure facilities for which the investor determines the public interest and which is necessary for the construction of two reasons. These are facilities which are of particular interest both to the Republic of Serbia and to local self-government and to those facilities of the process of solving property-legislative affairs to obtain a final solution to the expropriation, i.e. the act of the finance ministry, the introduction into the possession of immovable property, extremely painful and long-term. For already well-known reasons, the impediment to the management of the cadastre, the non-starting of the desert procedure, the failure to comply with the applicable law on fixed-state pads and for which the investor is not responsible. I would remind you, Your Honors Minister, that we have a lot of projects standing here because of these misunderstandings. We can talk and citizens know that about certain roads that are built, for example, the Kragujevac-Batocin road, and then the huge investments they are suffering, for example, Serbiagas, because you have line projects that include sometimes more municipalities and more regions, and if a solution like this is kept, I'm afraid we'll get into a situation that we'll get back locational conditions, so while we're waiting for a final solution to property-legal relations, we have loans for roads, we have a bunch of other things that we can't solve. I underline that, recognising this problem, the legislator has recently passed two special laws to enable efficient construction of line infrastructure facilities of particular importance, which is the pipeline "South Stream" and the electricity transmission system, etc. ‘Transbalkan corridor’. Why is this important? Because my colleagues from New Serbia and I want the investor to simply obtain a building permit for the facility within a reasonable period of time, proving an appropriate right on the basis of established public interest, as it implies that there is an appropriate plan document brought by the competent authority in accordance with the law, which established the spatial position of the facility in relation to the cadastrian parcels, where the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the same law, has established public interest for the same catastrian parcels. Therefore, limiting the right of owners of cadastrian parcels on which the right of permanent service or the exercise of expropriation is established has already been executed, and the adoption of a decision on the building permit does not result in additional damage. This is very important because, I'm afraid, once again, I got an explanation at the Committee meeting of your associates this morning that, if this amendment were to be accepted, it could cause damage to the owners of the plots, but on the other hand we have so much of a delay that we are having problems, that here we are now being gassed in Pogorevec, where you have, for example. 1,500 parcels. When it was gassed in my municipality, Topola, there were 800 parcels. This amendment is, I must say, the co-author work of the people of "Serbia" and "The Way of Serbia", where I am someone who conveys their views in this House. We believe that accepting such an amendment would simply simplify the procedures for such capital facilities that are of paramount importance both for local self-government and for the Republic of Serbia and where it would encourage the construction of such projects both in gasification and in the travel economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15626	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15627	Just to clarify, and I know that's what my associates explained on the board, but let me do it again. So everything we're doing, we're doing just to encourage investors, to encourage construction. When you talk about how projects will stand, they won't, because it's under this law that you have the right to a phase building permit and how the issue of property is solved, so it goes into construction. Therefore, it won't stand for things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15628	Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric submitted together to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15629	In the course of the discussion, I have tried several times to point out the illogicality of the application of this law, and it concerns the disagreement of this law and the conflict of this law with many other laws. I also tried to talk about how many members of the law did not agree with each other and the obvious example is this particular member of the 13th position that speaks of funding. This position states that a building permit is issued on behalf of the investor and the financier if, with the request for the issue, the contract between the investor and the financier is attached, certified in accordance with the law governing the overing of the signature, in which the investor agreed that the holder of the rights and obligations under the building permit would also be a financier. According to this member of the law, the financier has the right to be on the building permit. Thus, he acquires the right and property of that immovableity. Article 2 of this Act states that the funder cannot solely be the owner of the immovable property. I would either like someone to explain to me what these members are about or to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15630	The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15631	I reported after the last amendment, but you didn't see it. I'll have a chance to get back to you next.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15632	You want to talk about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15633	I don't think I'm gonna be wrong about this if you let me say something.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15634	Yeah, about this amendment, about the previous one, no. I ask the messengers to report in good time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15635	Since the Republic Geodetic Institute, I also said in principle that it is simply passing through the entire law, a very important organ, I think there is a lack of knowledge of the obligation of the Republic Geodetic Institute. The Republic Geodetic Service in its business does not initiate the desert procedure, does not do the judicial part of the work. Investors, immovable property owners are obliged to submit the necessary documentation to the Republic Geodetic Office from the day of the change on immovable property within 30 days of the application of the change. In the end, this law says so, and I ask that it be understood that the whole burden of a job is not overloaded on the Republic Geodetic Institute, which has objectively some problems in its functioning, but surely a good part of what is not up-to-date in the Republic Geodetic Institute applies to both owners and other state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15636	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 81. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Comic submitted to the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic imr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 82nd Amendment were submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidic, Snezana Malovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic submitted to the 84th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15637	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished citizens, Article 84. The draft amendment of the law is referred to in Article 40. The law and talks about the period of validity of the building permit, and I will quote the first position that says: “The building permit shall cease to apply unless the construction of the building is started, or the execution of works within two years of the day of the eligibility of the solution granted by the building permit. ” We have submitted an amendment, which reads: "The building permit ceases to apply if the works are not reported in accordance with Article 148". Article 148 states that the investor submits a report to the body which issued the building permit no later than eight days before the start of the work. In addition to the application of the works, evidence of the regulation of the obligation to regulate the building land under this law is submitted, as well as evidence of a paid administrative fee, and we have proposed the following change in the first position which says: "The building permit ceases to apply if the works are not reported in accordance with Article 148 of this Act and does not start construction within two years of the date of eligibility of the decision issued by the building permit" for the simple reason that we want to prevent the situation in which the investor can start and complete the construction of the facility without reporting works, and thus without paying the contribution to the planning of the building land, and that it cannot be established that the building permit has ceased to apply. That is why we thought this amendment was meaningful, because it gives greater control and obligation for investors to report their work prior to the start of the work, with everything that Article 148 requires, which is that he paid all the taxes and all the charges necessary for the purpose of obtaining a building permit. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15638	Thank you. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Bosnjak. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15639	I'd like you to consider this amendment carefully after she refuses. I'll try to explain it as soon as possible. The amendment refers to a member of the law which says: "If, after the construction permit has been issued, the new investor is obliged to submit within 15 days of the date of the change to the authority which issued the building permit for the change of the building permit". It's nothing controversial. My amendment only says that the words "after the issue of a building permit" are replaced by the words "after the lawfulness of a building permit", because in the administrative procedure, the term "a building permit" cannot produce the next store, because otherwise, if it is not obtained, it does not obtain the right to a building permit, all these further procedures actually do not exist and do not apply. I'm not sure you're following me. Did you follow my argument? (Zorana Mihajlović, from the place: Yes. ) Don’t mind, since I was under the impression that you or may have agreed on this very amendment, expecting it. So, if we don't introduce an institute with a built-in permit, we can really create a big complication. So someone is going to issue a building permit, not to mention justice, someone who wants to theoretically do something, challenge the regularity of the procedure, file a request for change before lawfulness, and then other parties that are in the process can be interested in persons, would actually refer to something that has not received justice. I want to tell you that this amendment has been made in agreement and in conversation with the local administration of the city of Belgrade. They say such a defined member would actually give them a problem in their conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15640	The word has Mrs. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15641	Just for a little while. Your amendment has been rejected because it is legally imprecise, but through other additional amendments we are the problem you have just said. There are other amendments, the amendment more specifically, which has been accepted, but at that moment it wasn't written yet to write to you here with an additional explanation. I can't sit like this sometimes, I apologize, so if I turn around and talk a little bit, it's just because I just can't sit around like a mummy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15642	Do you want the word after the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15643	I am pleased that this inaccuracy will be corrected and that is, in fact, essential to the amendment. However, someone has to tell me, I have also consulted with the congregation services, that it is technically inaccurate, and all we have to do is input, I've got an explanation - the amendment is not accepted because it's legally-technically imprecise. I only asked to be put before the building permit, to add only that after the lawfulness of the building permit. Please really explain to me what inaccuracy is? It's not that important, but somehow it's just a little bit of a threat to professional vanity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15644	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Miroslav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milena Ćorilić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15645	And this amendment to Article 87, as next to Article 88, aims at simplifying the construction process and dissipating the law from excessive regulation. I expect that we will receive a positive response from the Ministry, or present ministers, to this proposal for an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15646	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15647	Thank you. In particular, to Article 87, the proposed amendment proposes a correction for eradicating words relating to connection to an electro-distributive network, which is one of the main changes proposed by the Member himself and which puts the matter in the appropriate context, i.e. disqualification of the amendment for eventual acceptance, because, as we can see in the explanation that we have received from the Government, precisely the connection to the electro-distributive network, i.e. the exploitation of existing infrastructure, which is treated in one of the previous members, is a prerequisite to act in the manner proposed by the lawmaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15648	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 88th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15649	The same motives, the same reason and the same expectations that this amendment will be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15650	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Miroslav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 80. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Novica Tonchev. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by MP Novica Tonchev. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Miroslav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Ilic Stosic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 97. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 100th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic together submitted to the 100th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 105. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 108. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 109 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Đurišić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Dr Blagoje Bradić and academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15651	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, our intervention in article 109 is quite extensive and one part has been adopted by amendment of the Committee to Article 109. I'm just curious, in this explanation, you've only stated that one large part of our intervention, points 3 and 4, you said that it's not possible to respect, that the amendment cannot be accepted in part. We are sorry if only for these legal reasons could not be found and this solution may be found through the amendment of the Committee in law. I hope that when a new law is passed, after these amendments and additions, that such a solution will be found in that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15652	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 109. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo jointly submitted to the amendment 109. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic together submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Jovan Markovic together submitted to Article 109 of the amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Novica Tonchev, submitted to Article 110 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic submitted to the 110th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Jovan Markovic together submitted to the 110th amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 111 of the amendment, together with the correction, the People's MPs Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Comic together submitted to Article 111 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Novica Tonchev. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 112. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted the amendment to Article 113. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic jointly submitted the amendment to Article 117. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Vladimir Marinković, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Mr. Dejan Radenkovic together submitted the amendment to Article 119. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15653	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, only to thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, on behalf of the Economic Cocuss at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for the dedication and, simply, the once-sensibility to hear and accept what is good, which comes from representatives of the economy in our country. I am sure that this way, and if, of course, we pass this law, it will contribute to the economic environments, the climate in our country dramatically improves, especially in the domain of the issue of building permits. My colleagues talked about where we are right now, and I'm sure we'll skip a lot of places next year and be one of the most favourable destinations in Europe when it comes to foreign direct investment. Once again, I can say that we can only be happy and satisfied in Parliament that we have such a representative in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who has a distinct sense of what the demands of the economy and what people who fill the budget and who pay taxes depend on, of course, on the economic development of our country. I thank my colleagues from the positioning parties who have signed these 15 amendments that the Ministry and the government have accepted and especially colleagues from the DS Ivan Jovanovic, who showed a very, very large contribution, understanding and desire for co-operation in the interests of parliament and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15654	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 125th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 126th Amendment were submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 126. Does anyone want a word? (No) Does the representative, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure accept amendments submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications to Art. 2, 9, 34, 39, 52, 55, 81, 90, 97, 105, 108, 109, 112 and 126. A bill of law? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15655	Yes, as a proposing representative, I accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15656	I understand that the minister has accepted the amendments. Members of the 129th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the MPs of Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric together submitted to the 130th amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15657	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Article 130 speaks of the planning documents that have been brought into force until the day of entry into force of this law and which remain in force. In view of the debate that was held in today's day, as well as the principle debate, I have always insisted that the design documentation be one of the priorities in the next period of all the competent authorities, in particular the Ministry and the local administrations, and I felt that it was necessary to adopt a new position 2 after Article 1 which reads - units of local administration which did not adopt the draft documents in accordance with the previous law, that within 18 months, from the date of entry into force of this law, they adopt the planning documentation, in accordance with the same. Position 2 so far becomes item 3. The basic explanation is our desire to limit, in a way, the conduct of local administrations, competent authorities and that the planning documentation, which is the basis for the application of this law and the unification of procedures, has as effective as possible and better application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15658	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15659	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, on this amendment, I will not plead, but I have one other suggestion, when it comes to this member and the connection of this member to the record in the immovableity cadastry service. We have passed all these provisions relating to sanctions, therefore criminal penalties, and, in that sense, there is full support for such a concept of more severe punishment and inspection. We have one situation, dear fellow MPs, in which we can all find ourselves more or less, but it is not normable, unfortunately. I would ask you to bear in mind, when you are doing sublegal acts, and this is about the situation where joint investment contracts are concluded, i.e. joint construction, or contracts for the purchase of apartments in construction. In view of the fact that the buildings are not registered in the immovable cadastar service, since it is logical that during the construction of the facility no technical reception has been made, and therefore no applicable permit has been issued, the question arises – how will this contract be verified? The notary, i.e. the public register, does not verify the contract for the purchase of the apartment in construction, given that no use of the permit has been issued for that apartment. You also don't complete a joint construction contract, and then we come into a very serious problem. The first problem is the bank doesn't give a credit line, it doesn't approve of a credit line. The other problem is that the bank on behalf of the investor won't accept the money because the contract isn't cleared. So, because we are entering a situation that is purely formal-legal to harm, or the harmful consequences of suffering, the investor, the buyer and possibly the financier, given that it is systematised in this law. When all these facts are considered, when we consider them, we come into one problem that is practically collapsing, on the one hand the Law on Public Registration, on the other hand the Law on Planning and Construction. Perhaps this problem could be solved by a sublegal act, which will also be considered as similar for the certification of contracts in which apartments in construction appear as the subject of the purchase, or joint construction contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15660	Thank you. The 132nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? He has Mr. Jovan Markovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15661	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the meaning of this amendment is that of Article 132. The bill specifies that real deadlines may be set. Given, again, the level of activity of local administrations, the new draft documentation done locally, given that it is necessary for local administrations to make a series of acts and decisions by 1 March 2016, to open a specific question of how local administrations will respect the deadlines given by this law, if there is no electronic procedure for obtaining documentation, reviewing documents, etc., in the period from 1 March 2015 to 1 January 2016, we considered that the time limit for the application of this law is 1 January 2016, as a realistically sustainable deadline, as a time-limit for establishing procedures at all levels, particularly for local administrations. What is a particular issue for the minister and her associates is this concept of the Singapore method that she mentioned here, perhaps it should have been explained to the Serbian MPs and the public so that we can get more quality information on what this concept refers to in this context as the law is proposed, I am absolutely sure that by 1 March 2015 most authorities will not be ready to apply this law and I thought it would be good to move that deadline for 1 January 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15662	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15663	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are in the free zone of amendments concerning Article 132, which reminds me of the deadlines for entry into force of certain provisions, i.e. application. These provisions apply in the list to members of 8, and then to the taxation of 8a, 8b, 8v, etc., relating to the so-called united procedure. Otherwise, a very interesting solution, a solution that, in my personal opinion, deserves special attention under this law and that we have been able to discuss on several occasions and on the committee responsible. I find it very important, I wouldn't turn this into a principle debate and talk too much about the importance of this solution. I think it's more than clear what she's looking at. When it comes to the dynamics envisaged for the establishment of certain mechanisms in practice, in particular on the date here, in particular in this amendment currently on the agenda, the word "1. March," we heard in an explanation as a potential problem raises the question of establishing the exchange of documents by electronic means. The first March mentioned here only in the first paragraph refers to all those tasks related to a united procedure that are not directly related to the establishment of electronic communications, i.e. the exchange of documents by electronic means. In the next position, some other deadlines are prescribed, specifically for those issues concerning the exchange of documents by electronic means, but I would take advantage of the opportunity to give a common answer for all amendments concerning the dynamics of the united procedure. It is certainly the time limits concerning procedures as such, the establishment of appropriate authorities with competent authorities, i.e. the establishment of electronic procedures for the establishment of appropriate registrars, etc. Each of these individual transactions has, according to the proposed legislative solution, some proposed dynamics for itself, depending on the complex and demanding process that needs to be brought to an end in order to bring this united procedure into practice in each of its partial parts in the right way. Interestingly, I think all the proposed amendments are such that they predict a little more time than the bill's proposer predicted, except for one. One predicts something shorter. I'll give you a joint comment on all the suggestions. First of all, I personally have a lot of sympathy for this one proposal that we haven't discussed yet, which provides for somewhat shorter deadlines, and I am personally always inclined to realise in as quickly and as short a time as possible. However, I will not support this amendment for just one reason, because I do not think it will be practically possible for this shorter deadline that is really being used in the right way, or to be respected. I think the measure is shown in the proposed solution of law, and I'll tell you why. I will refer to one example from practice and a few details about the context that may have been missed, because they are not directly in the text of the law itself, but are discussed in the reasoning. First example in practice. I come from the territory of the town municipality of Chukarica, a territory for whose operation, work, the life of citizens certainly depends on the local self-government, the responsible Serbian Progressive Party in the spring of this year and one of the achievements I particularly proud of as someone who belongs to and who comes from the territory of the municipality of Chukarica is exactly the fact that the new municipal authority is in record, extraordinaryly short notice for our opportunities, within just two or three months I have established with a system of effective processing of all submissions of citizens and all objects that open electronic exchanges, including service that allows remote monitoring of the status of individual objects at all times. One of the most interesting aspects, and I say that from my own personal angle, from everything that needs to be a good electronic administration, efficiency through a united procedure that should represent the base of a system that will represent the "One Stop" system in the right sense and in its full capacity. It is a mechanism that provides both technical resources and adequate services and adequate work of employees, and the municipality of Chukarica took two to three months. I now consider it a good rapper for the complexity of a job that can be done within certain deadlines. The fact is, they don't have all of the city's municipalities, maybe this achievement in two to three months can be considered extremely good, let's get him up as a good standard. So at this time interval it is possible to achieve and effectively complete one solution of this kind at that level. I also need to take care of the level, I use this good example as a reason for not giving longer and wider deadlines, but also as a guideline for the amount of work that can be achieved at the level of a city municipality. Why won't I support shorter deadlines, even though they'd paint one on one with the fact that the need for two to three months to realize something like this? Because this law isn't just treating this level. This law should be applied at the level of the entire Republic. I point out the need to bring this job to an end in a successful way must also introduce appropriate technical support throughout the country, but also networking, data exchange between different hierarchical levels. So also those who cross the territory of the city municipalities. Thirdly, and that's what I meant when I talked about the reasoning that goes with the text of the law, to establish a unified, uniform software solution for all these affairs across the Republic. It's that part of the job that's gonna take time, that if the local community is able, fast, to find a solution to do all this within a few months, I'm deeply convinced, but to establish a clear vertical and most important one system solution that needs to work properly in all its particular parts. That is why I think it takes extra time over a certain few months, that is to say, the exact time that was proposed in the original text in the way that the legislator formed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15664	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Snezana Malovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15665	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 132(2) where I only ask that the procedure, the electronic procedure, be extended from 1 January 2016 to 1 July 2016. My esteemed colleague, Mr. Orlic, has now spoken and I could support him in what he said, but the point is that Serbia is not only Belgrade and it is not just city municipalities. I just have to say one thing that's out of practice that local self-governments who, once again, are going to implement this law from next year, have so on January 1st. program budgeting. Little does anyone here know, perhaps even knows, that at local levels, at local self-government by the end of this year, we're going to have to bring risk management strategies that are very complicated, require a certain procedure, only programming completely different from what we're used to in local self-government, and that requires further training of local self-government workers, relevant services. What I think is a real deadline is for the law to liven up on March 1, 2015, to start with so-called. By a united procedure, to serve as a local catastra, local self-government, and to be able to change that law from 1 March of next year, but to go from 1 January 2016 to a complete electronic procedure, I tell you, here, live and see, it will be quite difficult. We'd better go with reasonable deadlines, so you'd better surprise us both, and we'll all be happy, and then we'll all be happy, but it's happening that we're going to vote back here for an extension of certain deadlines. I'm telling you, knowing local self-government throughout Serbia and all that local self-government has been waiting for, and by the end of this year, and since 1 January 2015, we're going to have a hard time meeting these deadlines. That's why I think six months is quite enough to respect the deadline and to be able to go completely with the electronic procedure in mid-2016 in the middle of 2016 and, if God does, to have an electronic building permit in that year. It is something that I consider reasonable deadlines and therefore I have submitted this amendment, although I agree that we should all do even more to make these procedures shorter, but Serbia is the country as it is, we will all need a lot of work to achieve these deadlines and I think that this deadline for the electronic procedure is quite reasonable on July 1st 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15666	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 132 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric together submitted the amendment to Article 133. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15667	The President-in-Office, Article 133(2), defines contractual relations between local administrations and competent authorities towards investors, i.e. vice versa. It states here that contracts which determine the payment of the land planning fee concluded before the entry into force of this law, under which compensation is not paid in full, the unit of local self-government may, by means of a general act, lay down criteria for the renegotiation of the amount and method of payment of the compensation for the construction land in accordance with the provisions of this law which are governed by the payment of contributions to the construction land. Given that it is the end of the year, that December is the month, given that contracts reached between local administrations and investors, i.e. people who have made certain changes or works on their facilities, are already in force, bearing in mind that here and those people who have paid part of their obligations, I think it is totally irresponsible and irresponsible that local administrations change their existing contracts with special acts. I also think that if this member were to fully apply, we are going into one big problem, that investors are being sent a bad message, that we are sending a bad message to people who have been building something that any government can change its decisions or worse, that some other authority that comes from this government is changing the contracts that are signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15668	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 135th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the Parliament, given that the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, today on 8 December 2014, starting at 17.00 a.m. as a day for voting on the agenda points of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let me abuse the word and thank you for today's constructive debate and I want to do so in the future. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-08-0.u15669	Let me explain at 5:00. The services are not capable of a reminder to vote after all these amendments have been accepted by ministers and committee amendments and other synopsis devices in a few minutes, and to allow other MPs who have other obligations to come to the vote. It's not a big deal, we're working at least 1800 hours, and we've extended the hours, so the vote will be at 1700 hours. Anyone who doesn't want to join the vote doesn't have to come. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the quorum for the work of the Parliament in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. Please insert your identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 152 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, with abstention – voted 12 out of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments: Article 2, with correction, and Article 48, submitted by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic; Article 7, paragraph 7. 9, 42, 81, 94 and 100, as well as art. 39, 50, 52, 65, 66, 67, 74, 79, 86, 89, 93, 119 and 122 together submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandra Tomić, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Ivan Jovanovic and Mr. Dejan Radenković; in art. 13, 14, 22, 36 and 37, submitted together by the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic; in Art. 16, 31st and 51st, together submitted by the MPs Borislav Stefanović and Balša Bozovic; on Article 23, with correction, Article 42th and Article 46, submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Snezana Malović, Dr Blaža Bradić and academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović; on Article 23, Article 52, with correction, and on Article 78, which was submitted by MP Zarko Micin; on Article 23, with correction. 24th and 70th, together submitted by the MPs Jovana Jovanovic, Gordana Comić and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, to the 30th, who jointly submitted the MPs Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djorđe Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo; to the 43rd member of the People's MP Novica Tončev; to the 55th, submitted by the MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković; to the 79th, who was submitted by the MP Branko Bošnjak; to Article 105, with the correction, and to the Member 107, who submitted the MP Katarina Rakić; to Article 110, with the corrections submitted jointly by the MPs Marko Đurišić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanović Koraić, Branka Karavidić, Dr. Blaže Bradić and the College of Ninoslavdinović; to Article 132 and to the people, who were sent to Jovan i. 9, 34, 39, 52, 55, 81, 90, 97, 105, 108, 109, 112 and 126 submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. I also remind you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is in accordance with Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been rejected as incomplete amendments: which add the name of the member and member of the 4a, submitted by the MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, who was sent by a new member of the 24th, who was jointly submitted by the MPs Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr. Dejan Capo; and which was sent by a new member of the 83rd, who was jointly submitted by the MPs of Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr. Dejan Capo. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – four against – 157 of the total attendance of the 161 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Branka Bosnjak submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 13 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 153 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric I am putting the amendments to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Bosnjak. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo I am putting the amendments to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 158, no one, with abstentions, voted for five of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The 9th Amendment with the correction was filed by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted for 164 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 13 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric submitted together to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 157 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic jointly submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 157 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 162 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanov and Goran Ciric submitted together to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Ćorilić to Article 37. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 157 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 37th Amendment in the same text was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovanovic, Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 154 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was filed by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 164 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Novica Tonchev. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric submitted together to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'd like an emissary of Katarina Rakic to approach the table, please. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 159 of the total of 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—two, voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Novica Tonchev. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 165 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - none, with abstentions - one, did not vote 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stevanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - none of the abstentions - did vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - none of the abstentions - did vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric submitted together to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - none of the abstentions - did vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Snezana Malovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Snezana Malovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Suzanne Spasojevic, submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against—no one, abstentioned—has voted 167 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric submitted the 53rd amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 54th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, joint MPs Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo, together with MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić, submitted the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - none of the abstentions - did vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Snezana Malovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 158 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 160 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions—one, voted 155 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 55th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment, with a correction, pending a review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 144, no one, with abstentions, voted 21 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The 55th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, v – two, abstention – one, 12 of the total of 165 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. I note that, as this amendment has been adopted, a legal-technical editorial of this amendment will be carried out. Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 162 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 62nd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic, Dr Blagoja Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic submitted to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Jovan Markovic submitted together to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 69th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Novica Tonchev. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 71st Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Novica Tonchev, submitted to the amendment of the 73rd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic submitted together to the 75th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic submitted together to the 76th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic submitted together to the 79th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 79th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric submitted together to the 80th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Comic submitted to the 81st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 82nd Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Snezana Malovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic submitted to the 84th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 162 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Bosnjak. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Ćorilić to article 86. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 87th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 88th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Novica Tonchev, submitted to the 91st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 91st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Novica Tonchev, submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Ilic Stosic to Article 97. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 166 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 100th Amendment were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Comic submitted together to the 100th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 105th Amendment were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 105th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 109th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Branka Karavidić, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 109th Amendment were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 109th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 109 of the amendment, with correction, the MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Jovan Markovic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 110th Amendment was submitted by MP Novica Tonchev. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – two, abstained – voted 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 110th amendment, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, abstention – one, 160 of the 166 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 111 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Novica Tonchev. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 117th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 125th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 126th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 129th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the MPs of Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, no one, abstentioned - one, voted 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćiric submitted together to the 130th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 132nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Snezana Malovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for—four, against—no one, with abstention—two, voted 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 133th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 135th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 165 out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People’s MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that by adopting several amendments to the text of the bill, the situation in Article 165 arose. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely that the adoption of these amendments, led to the need for the committee responsible to submit a new amendment to bring the amendments adopted to one another, as well as the text of the draft law. Because of that, I'm setting a 10-minute break. I ask that the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives meet immediately and submit the necessary amendments, i.e. the report. The board session will be held in Hall Two at the House of the National Assembly. Please be there in 10 minutes to get back to work. Thank you. We're going back to work. [[After a break.]] Before we continue to decide, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 146 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. most of the total number of MPs are present. Therefore, there are conditions to decide. You have been presented with amendments to the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one with abstention – has voted eight of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, submitted an amendment to Article 55. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted four of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. Since we are done deciding on the amendments, we now approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, v – one, abstention – one, three of the 159 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction. As we now need to decide on the draft law on the confirmation of international agreements, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will vote only in general on these draft laws. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Loan Agreement (Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154 against – two abstentions – there are no votes, three of the respective 159 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee, (Project – Switching from analog to digital signal) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – five abstentions – there are no votes, five of the 160 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the European Convention on the Protection of Audio Visual Heritage, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one of the 160 MPs present, voted for – 159. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See in the area of higher education, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 155, no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Decision on rules on implementing a public competition to elect candidates for members of the Public Media Institute's Programme Council "Radio-Television of Serbia" in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted nine of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. As we now move to a decision on election and resolution proposals (points 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2, paragraphs 14 and 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority, holds most of the votes of all the MPs. In view of the fact that no amendments have been made to those proposals, as referred to in Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 159 against – two of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, five of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted five of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Educational Council, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted seven out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require without the right to explain that the National Assembly is to declare itself in the day of voting. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Jovan Markovic, at a session on 8 December 2014, at 11 o'clock and 14 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 7, no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Thank you.
