ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12941	Thank you. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Registration provided that the public notebook must have residence on the day of its oath in the area of the municipality, i.e. the city, which is designated as its official seat in the designation decision. If we have in mind the possibility that candidates for public notebooks, regardless of the area which the municipalities, or the city, have a registered residence, may apply for public notebooks, and if a public notary which has no registered residence on the territory of the municipality, or a city designated as its official seat, or if the place of residence is changed until the day of the oath, I consider it logical that the minister annuls the decision to appoint such a public notary and to repeat the appointment procedure as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12942	By amendment, Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12943	Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group will not accept this amendment and we will vote against because this amendment wants to resolve something that is excessive, something that is not necessary and that will burden the amendments and additions of the Law on Public Records. If there is no residence of a public notary, or notary at the time of taking an oath in the place in which it is to be carried out, it cannot be appointed, it cannot begin with its work and it is a notary fact where it applies to lawyers as well, this also applies to other public service officers. So whoever has to take the oath must meet at that point all the conditions that the law provides. Therefore, this is an excessive provision and this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12944	National MP Vesna Martinovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12945	Let me get this straight. Therefore, at the time of appointment, a public notebook may have a registered residence in the territory of a municipality or city which is not designated as its official seat. The decision to appoint is a legal act. The act of taking an oath is not a legal act, and how will you deny someone the right to take an oath in a situation if you do not cancel the appointment decision because he has not aligned his residence with his official seat? That's actually what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12946	Thank you. National MP Dragan Nikolic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12947	Madam President, I didn't mean to answer, I explained in my first address, but the Law on Public Records in Article 22, paragraph 2, says that a public notary cannot begin work before taking an oath. So he can't start working before taking the oath, so in a specific case he's not even considered to be a public notary, because he didn't even meet the conditions laid down by law. It's all clear to everyone who's heard this and I think it's both professional and laymanly transparent of what I've just read. So it's about the Law on Public Libraries, it's about Article 22(2). It cannot begin because it does not meet the conditions laid down in the law, and one of the conditions is to take an oath, or what precedes it, which is to have a place of residence at the moment of taking an oath in a place where it will perform its duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12948	Thank you. There are no more applications under this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12949	Thank you. The proposed amendment suggested that the Law on Public Records should be amended to the extent that, apart from the proposed amendments, public records should be drawn up to traffic the immobilities of persons who are commercially incompetent, which I think is a good thing, to delete 1), 2), 3) and 4) point in paragraph 1. This is about property relations between spouses and out-of-marriage partners, i.e. agreements on the share of joint property of spouses and out-of-marriage partners. I don't think business people who choose to live in a marriage or an out-of-marriage community really need a public notation to regulate mutual property relations, or to have anyone suggest in any way they should and can exercise the division of the common property. Let me give you an example of how absurd that is. In a situation where, for example, both spouses or out-of-marriage partners are lawyers who have no legal right so far to represent, for example, marriage mates in matters of property relations, each other, but who have a restriction to regulate each other's property relations with spouses, or outside partners, or to draw up agreements on the share of joint assets, which is absurd. Therefore, it is absurd that persons living in a marriage and non-marriage community reach an agreement on how to regulate property relations, i.e. to exercise the division of their property, do not have the opportunity to by means of a contract that would regulate and mutual relations, which I believe is not good, and in that case should be excluded from the authority of the public notary from making a public note when we talk about the property relations between marriage and non-marriage partners, i.e. the denomination of the common property, also legal maintenance and the promise of gifts and gift contracts. I will remind you that the legal maintenance contracts have so far been subject to jurisdiction by the judge, but the judge who has been segregating the legal maintenance contract. So, I don't think there's really any need to prescribe in this case the exclusive jurisdiction of public notebooks.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12950	Thank you. The word has a minister of justice, Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12951	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer to the presentation of my predecessor, Honorable colleague Martinovic, and point out something I directly consider here by replacing the thesis. So, what's the substitute for thesis in? The replacement of thesis lies in the fact that it is a fact that here it makes it impossible for spouses to form a contract, i.e. an agreement on the decoupling of the joint property of spouses or outmarriage partners, which is simply not true. There is no single part of the law here that limits freedom of will. Freedom of will is also present in this law. What does this law prescribe? What has been prescribed since 2011, because four positions, whose erasure you are looking for, are attitudes that were brought in 2011. What changed compared to 2011, so this was a good solution at the time and today is a bad solution? So here the law just points to the essential form of that contract. I spoke sufficiently in the debate in the principle of what is the importance of the public record, that it is a public executive document, that it has the power of a court decision and when pollution is concerned, that I thus express myself, marriage or non-marriage partners, at that time reach a contract, or an agreement on the denomination of property to which both spouses will give consent, and that it has the power of an id with an executive title, the power of a public id, it is almost impossible. Here in time they regulate these relations with an executive public order in the form prescribed by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12952	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12953	Thank you. So, what changed from 2011 to 2011? In 2011, I was not a national MP, and I could not respond to the amendments to the proposed Law on Public Registration. When you say that in 2011, you wonder how it didn't bother you at the time, and now it reminds me of the situation where every day you go to the street next to the same paper and say, "I didn't throw this paper away, so I won't throw it in the trash." So, the fact that something was wrong in 2011, it can't be good now. You now have the opportunity to correct what is not right. The second thing, I don't like it when you say that polluted relationships between spouses, or out-of-marriage partners, because, believe it or not, property relationships between married and out-of-marriage partners can be regulated and they're not, as you say, polluted, but just to rule out the possibility of being polluted. Why, for example, do you think that the agreement on the share of the common asset is the result of coercion, not the goodwill and intentions of the mates to share their property relations and shared assets? Why does that have to be the result of a dispute? The second thing, you're giving a public record more power than a court settlement. I don't think that's good, and that's why I suggest that the property relations of the spouses when the result of the agreement and the consent will be left to them, along with an overture of signatures on such contracts or soloisation by a public notary, not conditioned by making public records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12954	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12955	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would disagree that this is a natural situation where you walk down the street next to the paper that stands on the street and you won't pick it up and put it in the bin, because this isn't the paper standing on the street, this is the law. This law was passed by the National Assembly in 2011. If someone wasn't a national MP, and he was elected on the list of parties who proposed this law, which by its majority passed this law, only then can we talk about a little paper on the street that needs to be raised and thrown into a bucket. The second thing, a very important, professional thing, is not said at all, nor did I say that the public record of the agreement on the decoupling of the joint property of the spouses or of the outside partners is the result of the dispute. It arises that in the event of a dispute, it enables an effective distribution of assets and that is its purpose. Such a type of public record shall not be given any greater power than a court settlement, on the contrary, the article 85 of the public record shall be equated with a court settlement. So he's not given more power, he's equating himself with judicial alignment. Therefore, the public notebook is what is said in theory – a preventive judge. He makes his activity so that one day there is no judicial dispute in the fact that it consists of a certain notary instrument. That's the point of his actions in this situation. This is not the result of the dispute, this should prevent the dispute itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12956	The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12957	Thank you. I just have to figure one thing out. I'm always a fan of it, let's be honest, let's say what we want. If this were to be accepted, then we can freely shut down the notaries and shut down the public records. Now the question arises – what did someone adopt in 2011 the Law on Public Registration? Why did you bring it to us then? Was that, first of all, a little bit and hypocritical, just to say in front of the European Commission or in front of anyone, to get a point – here, we passed some law, and we essentially don't want to apply it? Today you want to end this institution. If this is accepted, we can tell the notaries – lock down your offices and don't work anymore and get back to how it's been so far. I understand, you may be a lawyer, as far as I can tell, I know you're a good lawyer, but let's be perfectly honest. This is something that is totally unacceptable, because it loses the meaning of the Public Records Act. I repeat again, we can tell all the notaries – people, lock down your offices and no one else will pass the exam for the public notebook. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12958	The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12959	Thank you. I am using the parliamentary group's time to support the amendment that my colleagues have submitted and to comment on, an argument as to how a metaphor is used on paper, with special gratitude that stenograms exist and will remain. So, when an argument is used that the MP who signed this amendment or anyone else voted in favour of a law that changes, it is considered that the electoral list on which you are elected did not vote for any legislation in the National Action Plan of European Integration, it did not support any regulation that would harmonize legislation with EU legislation. Yes, this is an amendment, since the argument that the amendment is unacceptable is that the law was passed in 2011 or that someone voted for it. I did not enter that argument, it was introduced by the minister and this argument can be very easily disputed, because the minister was elected from a list that was never voted for by 2012 for anything related to European integration, and now, I will also commend the various sectors in this government, very accessible, and here I would single out the minister without the portfolio of Jadranka Joksimovic, but also many other members of the government, are working on the affairs of European integration. If that argument is the same force as the argument for the refusal of the amendments that the colleague made, then the argument is weak and thin and shows what the minister should not show in the hall in which the Law on Public Records is changed two months after the amendment here in this same room, the subsequent amendment, changed the disputed provision, which caused the crisis in the relations between the government and the lawyers as a profession. The problem is still unresolved and the proposals the government has made now as a proposal to amend the Public Records Act, which is changing for the third time over the past two years. Instead of looking at who is proposing the amendment, it would be useful for the Government, for MPs who are applicants of the amendments and for those who, for the reasons of their profession, oppose the changes adopted in this Assembly two months ago, whom you were warned would cause the crisis, it would be good to talk about the content of the amendment. It's called dialogue. It's not called a dialogue stubborn insistence on the idea – it doesn't matter what they comment on and what lawyers are looking for as a profession, whether they're right or wrong. The disqualification of the profession cannot improve neither the text of this law nor its application in the future, and in particular the weak arguments on the attachment of European integration and the lack of credibility of attachment up to two years ago cannot dispute the validity of the amendment given. It would be good for the Minister and for the Government to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12960	The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12961	Thank you. It's just the clarifications that, when I said that your attitude and behavior reminded me that someone was able to pass the paper for days, I didn't even think of any law or other regulation identifying it with the papers. I believe you understood that too well, that the metaphor and the example of the paper was applied in a way of thinking and a way of acting, and not that I really mean it, nor would I ever say that the laws and other regulations are in the rank of paper on the street. That would really be embarrassing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12962	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12963	Thank you. I'd like to look back on something that's been given to me by circumstances, which I haven't said for a moment. The first and basic argument for not accepting this amendment lies in the fact, and that is what counterpart Djukanovic indicated, that this is a well-designed role for a public notary. If he is deprived of these three powers and has only a few responsibilities on the obligation to form a public record for certain types of contract, he shall be deprived of that type of transaction. That's the first thing. The other thing, one material untrue, I believe that Col. Comic made it a failure, two months ago there was no change in the Law on Public Registration. This respectable home two months ago did not pass a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration. The law was last amended in February 2013. The third argument, at a protest by lawyers outside the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Bar Association said: "Give us back the 2011 law. “ So the man representing the interests of lawyers in Serbia said that. You have the footage, look, "Give us back the 2011 law." We are here now to witness that this 2011 law too to a significant extent ends. I don't have enough time to show you the proposal given by the Serbian Bar Association to me personally, where a whole series of provisions are made. 82, 83, 84, and 85, anything that defines the public record cancels, erases, doesn't exist. This leads to the role of the court's notifier and the court's notifier, which is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12964	The word has been given by MP Dragan Nikolic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the minister has fully explained why this amendment should not be accepted, and because he is at the small door disabling the powers of public notaries or notaries, he is trying to reduce them to the point of losing every sense of performance and very responsible duties and notaries will remain part of our legal system, although it is not like those who liked it in 2011 when they passed this law and when they need it for EU praise, he praises that they are on the European path and that the EU has no alternative. After politics changed, it was obvious that rhetoric had changed. When we discussed the principle of this law, that is, the amendment and addition of the Law, said that you ministers and the entire government had given hand to lawyers, you gave a gesture of goodwill, you met the requirements that were laid out on the myths and at the meetings of the bar. One of the conclusions was what you just said – give us back the 2011 law, the Law on Public Libraries, which was adopted on 5 May 2011. When you decided to do so, when you decided to take away the exclusiveity of building a real estate contract at the heart of the public notebooks' work, that moment the demands became higher, became more alavia, became enormous perhaps with a desire that when you accepted one thing, then the requirement was increased with a view to not meeting those requirements. I am afraid that someone is making demands that cannot be met by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we people's MPs cannot accept, no matter what we do, and as a crown proof of what you claimed, and you haven't been able to say for a short period of time, I will say. In this request that the Attorney's Chamber sent to the Government, or to our MPs, you have brilliant ideas that say, if the camera can record, I would show it, Article 82. - It's wiped out, Article 83. - delete, Article 84. - Article 85 shall also be deleted. - It's wiped out. Something I know very much about this – it is deleted, as if these requirements were written by some MPs, our fellow MPs from the parliamentary benches who remained in debt to Mr Selakovic, Mr Babic and me – who earned a note in Serbia in September 180,000 euros to give us a name and a last name? I think the same hand was putting this together. If we accepted this, we would delete the notary system from Serbia and thus become the state of money again, i.e. a state that is beyond all European flows. At the same time, we are in favour of joining the EU, of meeting all the requirements that the EU is making for us, not for the EU, and we want to put an end to something that qualify us to be one normal state, like everyone else in our environment. I remind you, we are the last country in which the Notary System came into existence. Someone's fighting in this assembly, and I'm afraid on the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12966	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I am deeply dissatisfied with the fact that several times already, and in recent days, we have been discussing the demands of several thousand lawyers. The question is whether those several thousand lawyers or several hundred lawyers run the bar. As a farmer, I am deeply dissatisfied. This is the second time that the National Assembly with special attention, with far more attention, is considering the demands of a lawyer with great attention, and you all remember those taxations when it was intended for lawyers to keep books, which I was representing, because my aged father, when he was 80, has to run books for agricultural land, but gentlemen and comrades lawyers don't have to. I'm afraid, despite the fact that there are at least a dozen lawyers in this assembly on 0.1% of the electoral body, let's say, at the top of their heads, there are 8,000 of them, and in the Assembly there are 4% of them, and we've been discussing the Law on Public Records for days, the amendments to go to lawyers, because this Assembly with due attention, with increased attention, must take care of them. As a farmer and as a former IMT worker, I am deeply dissatisfied that they are so relieved in this society. So, the Public Registration Act, which was adopted in 2011, has several repairs at the request of lawyers and lawyers. I don't mind sitting here with 250 lawyers. Let the Chamber gentlemen establish a political party, let them go to the polls, let them win, let them not be ten, let them be 250, our farmers have 25% in the electoral body, and here we have 0.4%. There are 0.1% of them in the electoral body, and there are 4% here, forty times more than there is participation in the electoral body and they are still dissatisfied. It would be easy for farmers to feed the hungry and the poor, but it's hard for us to feed certain lawyers, because it's never enough for them. Any law we bring here will not be enough for them. They'll be looking for something again tomorrow. Because, Mr. Minister, what you agreed with them, you made a deal. Second, tell them, let them form a political party, let them go to elections, let them win, and let me see what kind of laws they will make for us farmers, and we always give in to them lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12968	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12969	I'm using the MP's time group. When I said it was about amendments to the law two months ago, it was clear that it was the Law on Transport of immovableity, because the subject of the amendment was such that the changes caused by the conflict caused a protest. I said I wasn't going into whether the lawyer's demands are justified or not, but I'm going into it that disqualification of anyone in society, whatever social group belongs to, whatever the profession is, threats aren't the way to get to a good law, and they're not the way to make a common benefit, whether we're in a government, whether we're the ruling majority or we're opposition. The atmosphere in which the legislator is disqualified, the atmosphere in which it disqualifies itself on a personal basis someone who has an objection to law enforcement, which explains it in the right way or not, the atmosphere in which the campaign is being created to silence those who have reason to protest, justified or not, is not getting into it, is not a good atmosphere. She's going to do total damage. It's my only appeal to anyone who thinks with such ease that they can and can qualify very uglyly, to disqualify the pure lies of any group of people who report for dialogue, saying that some application of the law, that some provision in the law, which should be applied, is such that there is a reason for their resistance. Since there will be no dialogue here, there will be no dialogue in public either. No good can be done to anyone. The law was amended two months ago, and in connection with the Law on Public Records, it produced two months of different types of crisis in which I do not appoint the guilty or the responsible, but I consider the minister responsible for the unnecessary extension of the crisis. Who knows more and who knows better, is obliged to invest all his knowledge in order to reduce this type of crisis to the shortest possible duration and to reach a compromise that involves an amendment submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12970	The word has been sent by the People's Parliament, Vesna Martinovic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12971	Thank you. So, I'm just going to say this about this amendment. I am truly amazed by the way you approach the examination of amendments that are not politics but waist. I am not a representative of the Bar Association, Serbia, or the Voivodina Bar. I'm a folk MP selected from the DS list. So, from opposition lines and nothing more natural, it is not that, if I consider that any proposed law or amendment of an existing law is wrong and that a better and better solution is possible, it is my duty to write and submit the amendment. Why does it hurt you so much? This has now become a trial. Are lawyers right or wrong? I don't want to do it here. This isn't a topic. Should lawyers now apologize for being there, for paying taxes, for not using the stock reserves? Is that what they're supposed to do? I don't think that's the level and there's an unnecessary debate about this amendment that's not politics, it's the waist. If we don't have expert arguments, then let's get on with not discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12972	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12973	Thank you to the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will really talk about the amendment and what the profession has said here, in the working group that wrote the law in 2011. So the waist then supported the passing of such a law, the waist then said it was a good law. A lawyer organised in Serbia then did not say a word through her chambers against the law. One word. This law has begun to apply and we are no longer working on amending or supplementing the law whose application is still going somewhere in the future. We're talking about a law that applies, a law that's real, about public notebooks that exist and that apply this law. It is not convincing for me to say – there was no reason in 2011 for these businesses not to be in the public register's jurisdiction, and today in 2014, there are reasons why these jobs should not be in the public register's jurisdiction. I really respect my colleague Martinović and so many times we discussed and came to good solutions in this Assembly, simply neither I nor the people who worked on preparing these regulations see the purpose of why something was good in 2011 and in 2014 it was not good. I am convinced that with your participation in her work, one parliamentary group has strengthened its professional capacity and I am sorry that you have not participated in writing this law. For example, there was another man involved who was a time-old party official of the DS my distinguished professor, Dragoor Jimen, who says...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12974	Minister, time's up, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12975	... This is a great law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12976	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12977	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Now that it's said here whether it's a policy or a profession, here's what I'm saying with an esteemed colleague, I'm just asking, when was politics? Were you dishonest in 2011, when you passed the Law on Public Records, against whom I was otherwise personally? Right away, Minister, I was personally against giving so much authority to public notebooks or notaries. Or are you being dishonest today when you want to get in touch with some part of the legal esnaf? Why am I saying all this? You know, when the law was passed in 2011, you found that there was then a notary exam, which is to remind far more than a judicial exam, which is extremely difficult, and you to pass and be a public notary you have to have both a judicial exam and a notary exam. Now, you're taking away the authority of the notaries with this amendment that you're proposing and completely devising something that you brought in yourself in 2011. I don't know when politics was then. Tell us, when you were being dishonest, did when you passed the law, obviously, that you would have reached out to the European Commission or to someone or today when you wanted to court the bar. After all, all the lawyers were then able to rise up against the law in 2011. I didn't notice they ever said one word against that law. The truth is, two months ago, no amendments were made to the Law on Public Records. Amendments and additions have been made to some of the other laws that had to be in line with the law that you passed in 2011. Let's be honest, with this amendment you're proposing you're devising public records and everything you brought in in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12978	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12979	Through, however, dialogue and I am pleased about it, the real context is clearly pictured in which we bring amendments to the Law on Public Records, and because of the amendments to the Immobilities Act. So it is clear that the ruling majority, not the whole, but the biggest party in the ruling majority did not support the law then and then, not now, and that is the problem, because reforms of this kind must be carried out with convictions. You cannot call reforms declared European, and this body of public documents, amendments to the Law on Public Records and immovableity is part of European law. So when it comes to the will to change the system, it has to be done with conviction. This is not the first time that it may not be deliberate, but again, thank you for having a stenogram, it is very clear, in essence, that it is against the adoption of European laws, because they have always been against having to vote. It will be a common problem and common damage. If it's the 2011 law and the reasons why it was brought in, because it was brought in with a dialogue with lawyers. That wasn't easy. Because it was brought with their opposition, and then a compromise was reached with agreement. It is the only thing I can offer when it comes to the problem that the Government now has, that is, the Ministry of Requests, the proposals and the resistance of the profession that should work both in public records and in law. The compromises that I hope will be achieved on this occasion, and when it comes to amendments to the MP Vesna Martinovic, neither the minister nor the lawyers will like, but only those are good ones. The ones nobody's happy with. As long as there are sentences here that he's giving in to lawyers, it's hard to understand how crucial the compromise is at the core of what's called the European change of Serbia. Without the hope that the amendment to the National MP Vesna Martinovic and our colleagues, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic, will be accepted, I just want to remind myself once again that we will change our approach when it comes to the demands of the citizens to which the provisions of the law apply, whether they are in the public sector, in private, whether they are in any social group. These are not people to talk about in any way differently, but with respect, and the effort to make is only to reach an agreement that no one is satisfied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12980	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12981	Madam President, if you'll allow me a replica because the ruling majority and the largest party in the ruling majority are mentioned, and by amendment, I will contact you later. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12982	A replica to whom specifically?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12983	Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12984	Comic, okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12985	Thank you, Madam President. You see, I would have been much happier if we had found ourselves in 2012, if we hadn't actually found such a state of public finances that allowed normal functioning and funds for 15 days, for half a pension, for half a salary, for a doctor and a teacher and a teacher and a cop and a soldier. I'd be much happier if we hadn't found those debts and those obligations based on those debts, which were increased 25 times by just four years from 2008 to 2012. I would have been much happier as a citizen of this country if we hadn't found such a state of public finances in 2012, which is why next year we have to pay one billion euros in interest for what we didn't do, for what we didn't owe, but was already done by the previous regime. We can't act the way we say-- no, we didn't do it, we don't care. Continuity must exist. We didn't like many laws, so here we are, changing them, like the Law on funding political activities that we're going to talk about tomorrow. Do you think we like all the provisions of the Public Note Act? No, they don't. That is why Minister Selakovic announced changes to the law, but the laws were passed to comply. Can't one congregation...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12986	Time for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12987	... Most to pass the law without the other not respecting it because this one has passed. Simply, these laws must be respected and therefore we show courage that the previous regime did not have to enforce.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12988	The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12989	Thank you. When and if I want to talk about public finances, when and if I want to talk about borrowing, when and if I want to talk about the mistakes that are made in Chapter 27 in Chapters 12, 31 and 24 for the last two years, and compare them to the mistakes or good moves of 2008-2012 or 2004, 2007, I will do so, but I am not now. So I would be very happy to have my colleague Zoran Babic happy, and I love it when people are happy, and if they're going to make him happy that I'm talking in detail about things that were the contents of his replica, I'm going to do it. But I'm not now. So this exchange of replicas also comes down to the confirmation of what I have given as the content of the appeal, to change the approach when it comes to the demands of social groups in our society, which concerns the provisions of individual laws to whom they apply. The will to change laws and the will to understand why some laws with certain provisions, such as the Law on Public Records and the Law on Transport of immovableity, do not respond, that they will cause harm, is only will, goodwill, which is also willful, to listen to what we say to each other. But I thank my colleague for telling me what I needed to fill in my exposure so he'd be happy, so I'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12990	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12991	I was really trying to understand the previous pay phone. Here, I admit I'm not smart enough to understand this philosophical activity and learning democracy, by which someone who hasn't voted in favour of the Law on Public Records, when it's passed in this National Assembly by the will of some other majority, honors why we're applying it -- I don't understand it. Is it necessary for each congregation majority to begin and end? That's why I made a parallel with public finances. I wish we didn't have to close all the bad things from the past and all the holes in public finances. I wish we didn't have to give injections to public finances because someone in the past didn't even measure the temperature, let alone to do that, but to the temperature he added ice or gave ice cream instead of treating the state of public finances. Now he's respecting why we respect the laws. Is that normal? Is that democratic? Of course, we can like them or not like them. I may not have voted for the Traffic Safety Act either, but I am fastening my seat belt because it's the law, because I respect the state in a way that I respect the law. Another problem is that because of lack of political courage, political will, laws have been passed in the past that remained a dead letter on paper, which they should not have, precisely because of conflicts with some social groups in our country, or to apply. It is precisely because of the lack of courage that the hour of the people of KIM is given an axe in their hands to cut the balvanas, and then these same people are warned to move those logs. It's just because of those...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12992	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12993	... the conflict situations and conflict policies that have been led are necessary to remove such a policy and such a way of thinking because these laws I am certain that people who come after this assembly majority will apply them and respect them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12994	The word is Gordana Comic, a replica, as the previous speaker said he did not understand it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12995	At the risk of being accused of taking too much time with these replicas, I'm gonna have to do it anyway. The point of a replica is to respond to something someone says. It's not the meaning of a replica to come up with an effective text, consistent, but to what no one has said. It's a little missing in our conversation, because if I had any intention of transferring what it took 20 years for him to understand that the EU was a good idea, I would have done it, but I didn't. If I had any intention of making it harder for the minister to make a deal with the lawyers, I'd have something to do, but I won't, because it's a common shame. If I had any hope that we understand that the replica is – something is said, so it is directly answered when the replica is requested, then our discussion would be more productive. But I'm still grateful to my colleague Zoran Babic and the president of the Assembly for making this and this exchange possible, because I think it's good to start, so we'll work on it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12996	The word has Zoran Babic, a replica. You didn't understand him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12997	I'm glad we're having this conversation that's normal and decent. I'll say. I admit it. I admit that it took me years, as Col. Komic said, to understand the values of the EU, but I also admit that in two years' time, we have brought our society closer and closer to European integration and to the same EU than those who realized the values 20 years ago, and they have done nothing about it. I also admit that with all the challenges and the hard work that awaits us in harmonising legislation, with all the challenges and political nature, we will explain to our people in Serbia that we are not doing this because someone has imposed it on us, someone who sits in Brussels because for years back for all the bad things that have happened in our society or had to happen in our society was the EU. No, it is simply not true because I believe that all the work we are doing on the path of European integration without irresponsible statements and irresponsible announcements, which is why, unfortunately, the great number of people in Serbia are disgusted, because it has been announced that we will be a full member of the EU and in 2004 and 2007, however some elections are discussed, there is a promise, there is a Djelic who is going to jump off the assembly phone and announces when we will be members of the EU, what this government of the RS is doing and what this assembly majority is doing is clear – by 2018 we will do everything we can to harmonise legislation to open and close up quality all chapters so that after that political decision and Brussels...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12998	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u12999	... I hope to become the next star on the EU flag.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13000	By amendment, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13001	Thank you. So this about this amendment is really going to be the last call. I agree with my colleague Babic that the laws should be binding on everyone regardless of what congregation assembly has brought them. The ruling majority of those laws that were passed during the period until it was not ruling if they do not feel they need them and can change, just as the opposition to the proposed amendments or new laws can react to amendments. We agree that the laws are binding on everything. I believe, and here I answer to my colleague Djukanovic, yes, simple, pure rhetoric is now what you are flaunting with me. Who was honest when? Was I honest in 2011 or now when I propose to amend the Law on Public Registration or you who said that in 2011 you were against public records, but now you will support its changes? So it's pure rhetoric and it doesn't contribute significantly to what's on the agenda today. Let me get this straight. No one's against public-booking. It is one of Serbia's fluids and civilization and legal development. The question is only the scope of the competence of public notebooks. It's a service that only started working on September 1st. It is natural to see for the first two months what are the main shortcomings that exist in the work of the ministry. In the next period, we'll see more of that. That's why I expect to discuss it, not whether the lawyers are right or wrong, even though I think they are, but that's not the point today. We are not judging lawyers today, we are not deciding today on the demands of the Serbian Bar Association or any other chamber on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We are today deciding and discussing the amendments that have been made to the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Registration. Please continue the debate in that tone as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13002	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13003	Respecting the good intentions of the amendment promoter, however, I think it is a vain job because no amendment can fix such a bad law, because if it were then the New Party MPs would, of course, write amendments to this law. But there's no help here. This is badly started and this is developing even worse than has been started and is causing major problems, not to lawyers, notaries, notaries, the government of Serbia, MPs from Donjek, MPs in unusual clothing items, MPs who owe money to rent some land to the Indji municipality, but to bring a big problem to citizens of Serbia, who, without any possibility of reacting, at least until the next elections, have to endure this bahanalium that has been under way for more than six months. We have a law that led to everything being braked in Serbia, and what little did, that it was impossible to make real estate traffic, that an exclusive law was made for notaries that should become super-rich, but provided they don't pay part of their income to those who put them in those places, most of them, and they come from a highly corrupt top of the current government. Therefore, this is what is the basic problem today in Serbia and no amendment, so my predecessors' good intentions will not be able to change that. We have many other opportunities to prove that we respect European values. Public records are presented as one of the highest European values. Well, respect for the law is also a great European value, and the fight against corruption is the same great European value, the culture of dialogue is the same great European value, freedom of the media is also a great European value, but it is not applied here. Well, of course, a government that doesn't want it and can't apply it can't pass a serious law or a set of laws regarding public records. We have a complete disregard for the law and the establishment of the Chamber of Public Notebooks and how some have obtained these certificates, how they work during these first month of work, and how enormous the profits that have otherwise been the income of courts and local self-government are not the question to be answered by the opposition. The opposition is asking a question, and the answers, even if they're correct, are rarely supposed to give power. We expect to hear that report that's pressed on one button, so if someone doesn't know where that button is, don't push it wrong, ask someone who knows the button thing. We expect an answer to the question is it true that in the first month of the implementation of this law, multimillion-dollar sums were included by the notaries, 94 of them, and after 92, they still fell, they did not increase, and at prices that were several times higher than the fees when courts and municipalities did, and why was that portion of the income taken away from these institutions? Is the real estate process accelerated, is the process of any deals accelerated, getting any IDs? No, I don't. We warned all of this two months ago when the laws were amended. Then we're told -- no, it's perfect, it's the best experiences from Europe, it's a tradition of Serbian notation, it's phenomenal, they're taking us into the EU right now, they're going to give us back Kosovo for it. In the meantime, we have another situation so that I can automatically think that handing over this public function to private public notebooks, which allegedly performs a public function, is only done so that someone could fake someone's ID card tomorrow and open a phantom company. The government in the resignation can't propose law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13004	Time, thank you. You spent five minutes, even though it wasn't about the amendment, but it's your right. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13005	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, here, to agree with my previous fellow farmer, after his discussion, to use his sentence – there is no help here. If someone wanted to help him, he might be able to help him, but he has to cooperate. I think we've heard all about Donek here, too, that we've heard especially about the highly corrupt top of power. I call again, given that the same MP in one of the previous exhibitions, the other day, used the term that 80% of the funds from the public records are collected from the public records by the public. So it was a clear and unequivocal charge of corruption. I don't think a government should be appreciated for what you were when you were in power, so with that in connection, as someone who lives in the last street and the last populated house, I could ask -- how some former prime minister acquired a 165 square-square apartment on Vracar, how his garages only have over 40 and some squares, which is about the average square of some employee's apartment, not to say farmer, they don't have apartments in the city, how does someone become a farmer for three years, and that's a fat cash compensation? When it comes to renting land, it's no secret that I'm suing the previous regime for letting me rent a land that was private, as a state, it's no secret. I went three times now on these charges, alone, without a lawyer, because lawyers strike. With that in mind, I want to ask the minister what is the rule of law? Is that rule by the book? Is rule according to the rules of rule by law? Whether we have the right to be represented in these lawsuits or someone can tell us – as of today, I will no longer represent you, from now on I am on strike, you have to go to court alone, you have to handle yourself, that we had some representation agreement, that you gave me authority, that no longer applies. In this regard, I expect the minister to answer me, as well as to answer me whether those pictures were completely authentic, the dancing in The Tower, and was that with the song "My comrades are tough guys"? To me, performer Bajaga claims that this song was the one that was sung in 2002 in The Tower, not full a year before the prime minister was killed. So there's a lot to answer here, but let's not spread the subject. I'm not a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer or a lawyer. I am not a lawyer to the public, nor am I a lawyer who is an adviser to the president of a political party, nor am I a lawyer who is a political adviser to the president of a government. I think that among the lawyers whose demands regarding these amendments and the addition of the law we're discussing, I think there's a political part of the lawyer about that, and that's my right to my position. The opposition has the right to propose laws. The opposition also has the right to propose amendments contrary to the 2011 law when they adopted. It's totally their legitimate right to say, now we're not going to do what we want, and now we're not going to do what we want. They have the full right to propose laws they oppose by power, even if it is contrary to what they advocated in 2011. This right is not disputed, but here in the speeches of some MPs, for whom I needed an interpreter and very skilled, to translate it into a national language, I have about experienced some criticism about my attitude towards the work of lawyers and a large part of those other lawyers, whom I claim to have abused the Law on Public Records, that some of them perform politically, that some of them are even political advisers and that I have recommended that they establish a political party for that purpose and that they do so. If the opposition has the right to defend, and I don't argue with them, lawyers' proposals, proposals that are contrary to public notes, and by the way, I have publicly held an objection to the tariff in principle, at the price of public records, and I don't have any problem with the minister of justice to tell him that, but here, there is still one position that is close to the rebel lawyers, to call it, which is sort of headed by a public record chamber, that I appreciate that it is a few hundred people who have led other people on strike. I see fellow lawyers here who are against the strike, but because of orders and press releases, the Chamber has to strike. They've been put in a position not to represent their clients, nor can they represent me. So the rights of citizens are violated and the right of detainees to freedom, the fundamental human right -- the right to freedom is violated. So today we are arguing to meet those who have rebelled, to change this law, but someone wants to fully derrogate it. My advice to the minister is that if he agreed with the lawyers, we'll vote this out. There's no problem. If it's gonna change the law another time, I'm not against it. I say lawyers are part of these citizens, but I say they are far more represented than we are farmers. We were supposed to have two MPs, and we only had one, because one of the farmers had abdicated, so I was left alone to represent the profession. Therefore, I must rebel because there is 0.4% of us in parliament, and the lawyer still has 4%. There are 25 to 30% of us in society, and below one percent of them is 0.1%. I believe that we in this House have been neglected for years as workers, that our problems are not discussed with as much attention as the problems that lawyers have discussed. So I want to put a point here, supporting the opposition's efforts that they have the legitimate right to oppose those things that they were in 2011 have the right to change their minds, they have the right to some other attitude, but they insist on us others who have a different attitude challenge our right to judge that from our point of view. I guess we farmers have some rights, too. My colleague who was three years old, who charged it fat and got out. So to conclude, I've been going three times in the last five days, because I sued a Kraut newspaper for one lie, and I can't possibly exercise my right because a lawyer has to strike. He doesn't want to, but he has to strike and he can't represent me. I'm leaving the session, yesterday I wasn't here before noon, as you saw. Where's my right to be legally represented? So I ask the Minister, what about those photographs? Secondly, what about my right to be represented? Third, what about the rights of the detainees to have their custody lifted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13006	The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13007	I'm sorry the MP in the resignation isn't here, so we can't debate. It's strange to call for dialogue in a way that's going to tell a bunch of lies and then come out of the gym. You say, "Why is there no dialogue?" So, who do we talk to? With the MP unit? As for a bunch of things that have just been said, and even if some of my colleagues are in strange suits, here, I accept myself, on behalf of the parliamentary group that I'm running, that I'm the one in the weird suit, but that's why I'm willing to take out all my suits that are domestic production and put them in the loop, and their price. I am sure that they are all more expensive than just one suit of Mr. Zivkovic, "Bosov" or who knows which, and we receive the same pay. But I am sure that, as once a gentleman's and politically correct offer was made by Mr. Alexander Vukic, so we saw that Mr. Zivkovic was not accepted because of the lack and absence of parliamentary honesty, because he would already be at the National Assembly's Office to resign. Since I don't have much time left in this replica, is the traffic of real estate increased or reduced this way? Compared to two months last year, September and October 2013, and September and October 2014, the number of property traffic sold and purchased, because it is the result of both the crisis and the saturation of the market and everything that is happening to our construction industry. But do you know what's interesting? The number of real estate traffic has been reduced, nominally, numerically, and increased money traffic. What does that mean? That the contracts made up of the introduction of notaries are correct, marketable, that taxes are paid to the State which is required, that taxes are paid to the State which is needed, which ended in the hands and in the pockets of whether the lawyer, whether the purchasing parties or on any other side, but not in the hands of the State whose income it is. This is the difference and therefore the value of these laws is also important for the state, but also as legal certainty for the parties negotiating the traffic of immovable property. Keep your head down, because they're taking the heads off those who don't respond to the state's real income. Those who did not allow tycoons to establish a tax base, let alone charge, are now not responsible for the traffic of real estate at a market price and proper price, and not for the Vrakar apartment in the contract says it is 500 euros per square.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13008	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13009	I'm sorry I didn't get a replica earlier, but by amendment, of course, I'll say it. It is my fault that the esteemed applicant for the amendment, Mrs. Martinovic, with whom she can take a good turn, is not there. I believe it was a shame how her colleague defended her amendment. I was told I was against public notebooks. No, on the contrary. It's a good institution, I was just against the law that you passed back in 2011, which gave them this much authority against which you are today. That's a huge difference. Now you have to understand one situation, you can't play with it. Someone was taking a public notebook exam just maybe motivated by all these responsibilities that you gave them back then, and now you're asking all of a sudden to erase it. You can't play with someone's destiny. Someone may have sacrificed a career. Someone might have really wanted to lay down to get that chance to do what you predicted. It's really not right that now, all of a sudden, all you've been telling us are the greatest European values in the world, you're asking all of this to be erased now, because it's now politically relevant, because one part of the legal esnaf is asking her to strike and obstruct the work of courts and whatever you want, and you're collecting political points here. That's not correct. All these lawyers who strike today, I repeat, in 2011, peaceful souls could come out and protest and say – we are against what is then brought. They didn't do it then. Today they might pay just for their inactivity. We warned as a party then, that it was wrong to give it to notaries of such jurisdiction, you gave it to them. And now we have one big problem, I agree with that, but let them first address you and let them talk to you first and ask why they didn't react when it was necessary to react. You can't give people a very difficult exam, I'll remind you one more time, the most difficult exam for every lawyer is a public record exam, because, besides a judicial one, in order to be a public notary, they have to have a public record exam. You can't bring them down to the court's credentials now. It's just not right. You gave them something like this, people accepted it, learned it, sacrificed their careers, you can't play with them today in this way. Asked for one more thing, don't use the term that two months ago there was an amendment to the Law on Public Records. No, some other laws have changed that had to be consistent with what you brought in 2011. It's just the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13010	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The People's MPs of Gordan submitted to the 4th Amendment together... (Dear Nikolic, from the scene: Please, I signed up 45 minutes ago. I'm sorry, you weren't in the system. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13011	Mr. Chairman, I'm really asking you, but this is the last time I've asked you to hurt the Rules of Procedure, so far I've abstained. I called 45 minutes ago, and you kept avoiding me, you kept shutting me down...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13012	Mr. Nikolic, I don't want to convince myself of you at the moment that I...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13013	No, I'm not talking to you at all. I'm just warning you this is the last time I've put up with you doing something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13014	Sir, you can't warn anyone that last time, last time or so...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13015	Here's a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13016	Please, the moment Mr. Djukanovic finished, there was no one in the system. I've moved on to the next amendment. You can't convince yourself with me. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13017	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that there is no honourable Member Martinovic, because I called right after her discussion, and I wanted to explain what I said. At no time will I challenge the other MPs he has here 49, including me as 250 to make amendments, to participate in the work of this Parliament, to give their opinion, their views, to represent their own interests, perhaps the interests of their constituents, and I call on Mrs Martinovic to always give her opinion, her opinion. I was just dealing with what she said. I said that this amendment for the SNS parliamentary group is not acceptable, because it greatly reduces the size of public notebooks' affairs, and at the same time, I would remind the Serbian public that the public record has the power of the executive title, has the power of a practically legal executive verdict, has the power to settle before the court, has the possibility to write the execution and implement what you have agreed on. It's got weight all over the world, it's got weight on us, too. Given that we have come to these amendments and the addition of the laws and these amendments, probably with your desire to give hand to those who strike or who have suspended work, let's set up a situation to accept everything they have asked for and I've read it before, and that's Articles 82, 83, 84 and 85. Law on public notebooks, adopted on 5 May 2011. We would get to the point where the notaries no longer have any authority, that their role is cosmetic, and that we would bring them down to the high schoolers who would hit the stamp and who would only verify the signatures, all their documents wouldn't have any power and we would have the situation as it was. What does that get lawyers? Almost nothing. In the existence of law offices in some more, some less, the job of drawing up a purchase contract, a gift, a life support contract, making up a will that is certified by the court, of course, may be within the scope of one, two or three percent. This large-scale strike and this big battle, which lasts 56, 57 days where we are all at risk, starts with the court, through citizens of Serbia who suffer the most, through the blockade of our judiciary to the enormous damage suffered by all the lawyers, and fighting to get something that will bring them one, two, or three percent in the revenues of their office. There's one more thing I'd like to remind you of, and it's about, of course, this amendment and everything that we've adopted about the Law on the Transport of Immobility and other laws, it's all subject to the Constitutional Court's decision. An initiative has been put in place to examine the constitutionality of all these laws by the Serbian Bar Association. Why don't we wait for the Constitutional Court to decide? Why someone comes out and says the unconstitutional laws you've passed by taking the prerogatives of the Constitutional Court, pleading to be something unconstitutional, and the exclusive right to unconstitutionalness and any law itself has the Constitutional Court itself. In addition to all of this, the resignation of the minister, or the shift of the minister, is taking political connotations, is dragging the lawyer into conflict with the executive authority, and some MPs here and two days ago and today are trying to bring our MPs into conflict with the lawyer, with the honorable interest, with the interest that this country needs very much, which is a judicial system. Here it turns out that without a lawyer working, without their work it's impossible to operate the legal system. We, lawyers, blocked the work of courts, prosecutors, complete verticals of the judiciary. We have come to an absurd situation that some MPs from the opposition are holding some of the demands of attorneys to make such amendments that can't contribute to the improvement of the status of lawyers who are otherwise not threatened, but are jeopardising legal certainty, are jeopardising the Law on Public Logs which, I recall, brought by most of the DS, on 5 May 2011, when lawyers did not strike, when lawyers did not object, but at that time we agreed that it was acceptable and that it was quite normal both in other countries and in ourselves. The moment he started and took effect and started working with the notaries, the conflict began, and we heard from colleagues Pavicevic that some notary earned 180,000 euros in September, but we can't hear his name, his address. Because I'd like to get involved with him, take that notary exam right away, and make 90,000 euros, which is, of course, science fiction, which is impossible. But when you spin the public, you come into a situation where someone wants us to feel bad here. I feel very good, I've been a lawyer for over 25 years and don't defend your lawyer from me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13018	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Professor Vladimir Pavicevic, replication of the name and last name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister of the Government in resignation, as I understand Mr. Selakovic and the respected guests of the ministry, I would like to point out two things in this replica to Mr. Nikolic, dear Mr. Becic. The first thing, we here two days ago in the context of a principle debate on the proposals of these two laws found that Minister Selakovic said that one push on the tax administration button now has all the receipts of the notaries. My proposal was then, Mr. Zivkovic repeated it here today, to press that button, gentlemen, that if no one else can, Minister Selakovic press that button, and to publish the revenues of all the notes, of all the notes in Serbia, achieved in September of the month, so that we can see exactly how much money that is, to check exactly what there is, gentlemen. Another thing in the replica, dear Mr. Becic, Mr. Nikolic. I also invite Mr Nikolic and all the MPs and MPs of the SNS to at least one mention of my last name in every speech. Whether they will say "Pavicevic", or "Pavicevic", I don't care, Mr. Becicu. I would also like to be mentioned more than once in my every speech, and I ask you, dear Mr. Becic, that every time a member of the SNS Parliament mentions me by my last name, that you record it in the system and that, dear Mr. Becic, you must give me the right to speak on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which says that when someone mentions me here, I have the right to a replica, Your Honor, Mr. Becic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13020	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Prime Minister Nikola Selakovic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13021	Thank you, Your Honor. Since I'm personally mentioned, and they've been torn from the context of my word, I'm taking the opportunity to answer it. I would remind you of the principle of ethics of responsibility. So, the principle of ethics of responsibility, which is set in this National Assembly, in this distinguished home two days ago, when it is just said that you should bear responsibility for your words. I said at the time that the flow of parliamentary democracy is that the MP has immunity for everything he says, but the ethics of responsibility is mentioned, not in relation to that immunity, but in relation to what is being said here and clearly claims. In the last two days, I have not received an answer to what has been put here as a claim, as a clear and unequivocal claim, that there is a public notebook in Belgrade that earned 180,000 euros in one month, in September. I, as well as the convincing majority of Serbian citizens who have been monitoring the course of the National Assembly session, expect an answer to that question. To anyone who expects me to present such types of information on other persons, I would recommend that he take and read the Personal Data Protection Act. According to the Personal Data Protection Act, he can find out that personal data are not provided without the consent of the person concerned. Since these are the public records run by the IRS, and said that the one person who cares about it can only write to the IRS to get that information, but I'm going back to what I said was absolutely false. It's an absolute lie that one man earned 180,000 euros, and one who claimed it should be guided by the ethics of responsibility and say who it is. If it is false and if it is indeed proved to be true, let the guided by this principle bear the proper ethical consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13022	Thank you. Replica has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic. Here you go. You don't have a chance to replicate, you're not mentioned. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I answered the line, the minister spoke to me.]] Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13023	I would call on my colleague Pavicevic and mention him, and to the personal mention of Mr Pavicevic, instead of the buttons he mentions, I would absolutely not have to get the right to the replica, because I mention Mr Pavicevic in an educational sense, that as a younger colleague Pavicevic instead of those buttons he mentions, he included with him the truth button, honesty and responsibility, that the Serbian public, that the National Assembly should inform the people of what he said a few days ago in this home, where he said that one notary had received 180,000 euros, to tell us who it was by name and last name, or to include that other button for responsibility, Mr Pavicevic, and congratulations, it is necessary to include it, it is necessary to get it and to send a public apology to the citizens because he had deceived us here and his colleagues, or to join the MP in the resignations, Mr Zivkovic, at the National Assembly office. For today, at 1400 hours, a session of the Administrative Board is scheduled. We have one resignation from the MP, we expect another, eager, one promised, and that is Mr. Zivkovic's resignation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13024	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Pavicevic, your name is mentioned, but please let the subject be the same as before, so that we can finish and move on to the next amendment Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Please give me the replica, I was mentioned five times in two minutes.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic and the Honorable Minister of the Government in resignation, as I understand it, Mr. Selakovic and honored guests, three things...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13026	Please, Mr. Pavicevic, I won't allow you any more. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) The People's MPs Gordana Komic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. You interrupted me in the middle of a word. Here you go, Miss Jerkov. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: My Honored Mr. Becic, in the middle of the word you interrupted me when Mr. Babic said "an ambassador to the resignation", you did not interrupt Mr. Babic. ) Please, Mr. Pavicevic, allow the Assembly to work. Miss Jerkov, your time is running out. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I ask Mrs Jerkov not to start speaking until I get the right to finish. ) The word has Mrs. Komic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I would also like to ask Mrs Comić. Mr. Becic, I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pavicevic, here you go. If you abuse the Rules of Procedure, I'll give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13027	Please turn on my microphone to be heard by SNS deputies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Becic, a member of 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I ask you not to warn me not to try to abuse the Rules of Procedure and the right to the word for breach of the Rules of Procedure, because, in these six months, I have never abused the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as it never happened that I did not speak of the agenda. According to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I was entitled to a replica, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, you gave me the right to speak on the basis of Article 104, and then after 15 seconds, Mr. Becic, you turned off my microphone, and you could only turn off my microphone after two minutes of which I, according to the Rules of Procedure in Rule 104, had the right to do so. Dear Mr. Becic, I can understand that you are sensitive to that coin "Governmental Government", but you should also be sensitive to the coin of "national MPs in resignation" when Mr. Babic mentions it, and you do not turn it off, dear Mr. Becic, the microphone, but Mr. Babic uses two minutes as a whole. I only invite you to, by respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provide me with a minute and 45 seconds to complete my replica of which I was entitled under Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13028	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. You can read nicely in Article 104 on the use of the rights set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this article, the President of the National Assembly decides. I've decided you don't have the right to a replica and I'm asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13029	I'm reporting by amendment to Mrs. Martinovic, Mr. Becic. You said in the debate with Mr Pavicevic that we were moving on to the next amendment, but I was still in contact before Mr Babic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13030	Miss Jerkov, we can't go back...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13031	But I called before Mr. Babic, Mr. Becic, who got the word before me because he answered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13032	Miss Jerkov, you have your amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13033	Thank you. I didn't mean to talk about this, but good. You deny us all other rights, so why can't we talk about the amendments we want to talk about? This amendment just comes down to what the minister wanted us to do, which is to return to the 2011 situation. We think that the provision, whose eradication of Col. Comic and I are proposing, is just another one of the things that will bring in additional confusion, first of all, among citizens who are now in these changes, who apparently happen every few months because of the minister's hesitation and unwillingness to listen to anything that is not identical to what he's saying, and who no longer know what jobs they should go to a lawyer for, which jobs they should go to the notebooks, which jobs they can do in court, in the municipality, etc. I think the minister in this whole evil lawyer thing and the good ministry overlooked the citizens. It's something we're trying to fix. He said one rather scandalous thing earlier, arguing that the revenues of public notebooks are their private matter. Mr Selakovic, it is terrible if you do not know that these are people who are public officials, that no one is going to the public notebooks because he loves it and because he wants to pay tens and hundreds of thousands of dinars for their services, but because he has to, because the law obliges him to do so, and now, when we adopt these amendments to the Law, part of the income of public notebooks, we advocate that it be a major part through the amendments, there will be revenues from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. As you can, Mr Selakovic, claim that their incomes are their private matter, the secret information of the Personal Data Protection Act? If you're still staying on what you said here in the Assembly, now five minutes ago, then it's no wonder your resignation for ignorance is being sought by lawyers for corruption by the Anti-Corruption Agency. Please consider their proposal. If you ask us again why something that worked in 2011 is wrong now, I'm going to ask you and why something that didn't work out in 2011 is right for you now? Thank you. I would like to thank the president. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Excuse me, Mrs. Comic, Prime Minister Nikola Selakovic called. He's got a head start.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13034	Here I am begging the chairman to hear from Mrs. Komic, and then I will be very happy to answer both to her and to Mrs. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13035	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13036	Well, you can see it's just a little bit of a will. Same with lawyers, no problem at all. So, the key member, because in Article 4 he was added to the Law on Public Registration in Article 83, this position 6 and he is key because he is tied to the change of two months ago and he is essentially the Minister's hope for the time being that the conflict, in my opinion, will completely unnecessarily sharpened and completely unnecessarily coerced, stop. That position, which is added, reads: ‘Contracts and other legal transactions at the disposal of the immobilities of commercially qualified persons shall be concluded in the form of a public notary record or in writing which shall be certified by the public notary, in accordance with the regulations governing the certification of non-public documents, soloisation’. Why do we want this erased? Because we want the resolution back for article 83 or to achieve with some hope enough effect that the minister continues to negotiate with the majority who will also vote with lawyers who are interested in solving the problem in a different way. Why do I want this erased? Because whatever you think of lawyers in Serbia and whatever you think of any minister of justice, this solution is on the back of citizens. So ministers and lawyers can't agree on who's going to have the right to enter into a real estate contract. Two months ago, it was only given to public notebooks, we have to change the law now, and what's the solution? That the citizen goes to both the lawyer and the public notebook. The damage is common. I don't doubt the will of the majority to vote like this, but I am expressing little doubt precisely because we managed to reach each other during some kind of dialogue, to think once again about whose account the possible agreement the minister is satisfied with, and the lawyers are not. It's not good and I just, unfortunately, I wish I wasn't right, in a few months from today, even if an agreement is made with lawyers, it's going to make another change. So my motive to add this attitude to the law, and as a consequence of the amendments to the law of two months ago, is to delete it, is to accept such an amendment, or to make such an amendment as to make an agreement that will not put citizens in a position to go to both the lawyer and the public notary because everyone wants me to be allowed to say, stubbornly preserve their own perception of their pride and that someone is right. It is not as important as who is right, whether it is the applicant for the amendment of the Law, or the Ministry of Justice, or MPs who will vote for or lawyers who have their reasons for such a sharp protest and even more reason to defend themselves sharply from disqualifying themselves because they have objections to the law, it is important that this will be the price paid by citizens who need the services of lawyers and public notebooks. Let's not do that, it's a common shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13037	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has a minister in the government, Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13038	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to speak to two colleagues in two minutes. The first one seemed to listen selectively to me, and she didn't hear what I said, and she said one material lie herself. The public notebook is not a public official. The public notebook is an official face. That's the first thing. Another thing, that I said any moment that his income was his private matter? That's absolutely incorrect. I said – given that they perform a public function, these revenues are on public insight and by request of the tax administration for obtaining information of public importance you can get that information. It has absolutely nothing to do with what I've been instructed to do, that I claim that the revenues of public notebooks are their private matter. Absolutely not. The second thing is, we can agree that the conflict is completely unnecessaryly sharpened, but we cannot agree on what was said that a citizen should not go to both a lawyer and a public notary. Well, these very proposed amendments and additions to the Law allow a citizen, if he will, if he has more confidence in his lawyer than in a public notary to go to a lawyer first, then to a notebook or only to go to a notebook. That's the first thing. If this were about this being the original application of a lawyer, you will give me, please, just to finish the sentence, testify and the request that arrived at the National Assembly Office in 7.10.2014 by representatives of a parliamentary group who is not participating in the debate, why don't I know where the amendment of the Law on Public Records is proposed in this section that we are discussing today. Therefore, after talks with the Attorney's Chamber delegation, Honorary counterpart Marko Djurisic submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Note containing these two elements – amending and supplementing Article 82(5), in order to include persons who are incapacitated, therefore, only for those contracts to be the competent public notebook and amendments to Article 93, paragraph 8, where two other positions suggest the need for soloisation are added. I apologize for taking more of your time, but this is proof that this is what the lawyers were looking for back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13039	Thank you, Mr. Minister. That's why I let you finish your sentence. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, you have injured Article 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides for you to take care of the order at the National Assembly session. The order at the meeting of the National Assembly implies that every person who reports for the word and receives the right to speak uses the exact time within our dialogue that we are conducting in the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, the minister in the amendment's debate has the right for two minutes to explain his position or to answer a question of MPs. The minister has now used two minutes and 54 seconds, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, and you had an obligation as chairman to warn Mr. Selakovic that the time has passed and to turn off his microphone, as you do to opposition MPs and a few seconds before they run out of time, and sometimes before they speak, as you just turned off the microphone to me here, dear Mr. Becic. That is why I call upon you to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, especially when there is a man present here who is a lawyer and who is the minister of justice in the government, although in resignation, but still to say the holder of that function, the minister of justice, chairing the National Assembly. All of us MPs must take care of order in the National Assembly, because this shows a kind of commitment to one concept, one principle which is the fundamental principle of the Constitution of our country, respected gentlemen, and that is the principle of rule of law, Mr. Becic. You, as chairman, must first and foremost take care of respect for the rule of law, and you violate it whenever you have a chance and a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13041	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Please let me answer the previous speaker. This debate was in the spirit, firstly, the minister was kind enough to favour Mrs. Comic. Mr. Pavicevic, then remind me, here I am now aware that at the last session several times I have allowed you to speak over a certain period of time. I'll give you a stenogram where you'll see that over two minutes you spoke, 15, 20 seconds, your colleague, too. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I have to react. Please don't flaunt with me from the bench. Here, you don't respect the Rules of Procedure, because you come out with me from the bench. You'll be in touch before the previous speaker finishes. Don't do that. Dear Professor, don't do this. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I want to make a statement to the Assembly. It's not even worth explaining to you anymore. The assembly will declare itself in voting day. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13042	Dear Chairman, I call on article 107. The speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The previous speaker already several times during the day, and in the previous discussion he injured, insulted, both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia by saying - the government in resignation. I'm asking you not to let that happen anymore. The government is a serious state body. It's not about the individual. It's about the government. I call on the MP to apologize to the government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Selakovic, to apologize to us to the MPs of the Republic of Serbia and to most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if not on behalf of nothing or anything, then at least on behalf of academic integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13043	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. Witnesses that I've warned the previous speaker several times about what he's doing, but it's again until the home education of a respected professor. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13044	Thank you. The Serbian Progressive Party will not accept the amendment and will not vote for it. I think he is against the spirit of the proposed law, but he paints one disagreement, because in order to discuss the fourth amendment, which is deleted, we must also look at the amendments of Mr Dragan Sutanovac, whom I think he is from the same parliamentary group as the fellow Members who have submitted this amendment, which is totally opposite, because this amendment makes it impossible, if accepted, to prevent lawyers and other persons from forming a contract in the purchase of immovable property. The amendment also to Article 4, the seventh amendment, which you have in the Government's opinion, reads Article 4, which adds Article 83 following Article 5, the words “unpublished correct soloisation” are replaced by the words “signed non-public correct, i.e. legalisation”. In this way, it goes to the other end and literally abolishs public registers, because that way they would return to the old ones, that the purchase contract that is made in the law office just checks out in the court's office. We also have an amendment that is an interrelationship, which was also signed by colleagues from the same parliamentary group, distinguished colleagues Stefanovic, Martinovic and Bozovic, who foresees each other, so I would ask you not to confuse both the Assembly and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, please, agree. You can't send a little message to the notebooks, you can send a little message to the lawyers, you can send a little message to each other, and in fact there's no one and a single solution. I'll talk about the other amendments. No reason to be nervous, no reason to throw. This amendment is unacceptable, because it is a point of merger for interests and states and citizens and lawyers, but also for other people who are willing and able and have the knowledge to form a buy-in contract. Why is this amendment one large group of people who were here yesterday on the market or will be at the Justice Ministry tomorrow or at another location, because it is being discussed and dialogue being conducted, why are such people whose interests the amendment promoter understands, but are being thrown out of the contract process, because it is reportedly bad for the citizens of Serbia? It's bad because a Serbian citizen will go to his lawyer friend, who will charge him or not, in which he has confidence or no confidence, make up such a contract, and then go to soloisation and at the notary's confirmation, because we don't want examples that Mr Selakovic has very vividly described in practice and applied in previous years, which is to buy one real estate, and that you don't even know whether she's under some dispute or not, you don't know whether she's sold to you or more times who knows who you are and you don't have anything other than to bring a lawsuit if, in the meantime, until you move in, someone irresponsible won't break in and move in. What's the possibility for the parties? What is the possibility of a buyer who wants to protect, what, a court dispute, a lawsuit, a year, two, three, five, costs, anxiety? How many people have not even welcomed, unfortunately, the justice of such litigation and to reach their apartments? In this way, by making a contract a public notebook or a lawyer or a person who knows how to make a contract, which will come to a soloisation, which costs 60% of the cost value, with such a contract the parties are safe, the state is safe to charge taxes and not just 30% as it has been so far. Because a 500-euro apartment was represented, and nobody cared, and the court's credentials had the authority to verify the truth or not. We will have the prevention of black money flows and the prevention of money laundering in this way, because what the contract says for the Vrakar apartment is certainly not 500 euros, but is measured into hundreds of thousands of euros. Is that how the amendment promoter wants someone who may have reached the money as Mr. Saric through the privatisations he performed until 2011, 2012, through various actors who are now protected or not protected witnesses, through various Jerkovics, through various such things that one black, dirty money, money from drug sales is legalized and put into normal flows? The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Justice and this assembly majority disagree, because we want to introduce everything into normal flows, because I invite you, Mr. Minister, to move forward. I also call on you to take what is the next step, which is the establishment of a public note bank, which will add the whole area and all that monitoring of money flows, and we see that no notary can receive money in cash, that there is no cash, that there are cards, that there are clear traces and flows, that thus it is provided and the state, the security of the parties is provided and the job is provided for everyone – both for lawyers, for notaries and for all those who have knowledge and calling to participate in this process. That is why, but also because of the large number of facts that my fellow SNS MPs will bring, this and this amendment are not acceptable to the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13045	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13046	Thank you, Mr. Becic. What Mr. Babic said, I can only say - is, Mr. Babić, Mrs. Comic and I have proposed an amendment to launder Saric's money, and you should be ashamed of what you said. That's all I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13047	Please, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13048	I'm sorry, Mr. Becic, but Mr. Babic said earlier that the amendment promoter intends to allow Saric to buy real estate money from drug sales.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13049	He didn't say that, Miss Jerkov. I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13050	You listen carefully, you never hear anything, that's another thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13051	Please, he cited examples from the past, but not the way you said it. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13052	As for what Mr Selakovic said in his first answer why it is not necessary to accept the amendment, to write it in this proposal as you said, that it gives citizens some choice whether they will go to notaries or lawyers, that would not be a problem. Then we wouldn't have a problem and we shouldn't be talking about it today. But, Mr. Selakovic, it doesn't say what you said. According to this, citizens still have to go to the notaries, where they're going to pay tens and hundreds of thousands of dinars, and if they want to go to lawyers first, where they're going to pay extra, that's their thing. Don't say what the bill says incorrectly. If that were what it says, we wouldn't suggest erasing, because that would be the solution to the problem. However, the solution to the problem is not in sight. As for Mr Babic's wonder that different MPs from the same parliamentary group propose different amendments, it really speaks more about his view of the role of the MP and the parliamentary group he is leading, so I would not explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13053	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13054	Thank you, Your Honor. I can only find out that it's probably accidental but someone doesn't know this law in its entirety and to the end, as soon as it's claimed. Even with the amendments, the citizen has to go to both places. But the difference is qualitative, completely qualitative. I would support one thing that my dear colleague and friend Zoran Babic said. So, if you have the making-up of a real estate contract, multimillion value, where you can fool the state, where you can avoid tax, where you can trick your co-dealer, like in some cases a few years ago, where a team of 10, 15, 20 lawyers who represent a powerful tycoon versus two farmers who have their own field along the highway, and then this powerful team of lawyers comes up with a completely unequal contract of real estate transport on which the judicial authority only seals and says, well, this is legal, not even entering into contract content at all, then we have the possibility of double-crossing citizens. This is exactly how a citizen protects, which enables the citizen to be equally represented and according to one who has incomparably greater power, incomparably more money and incomparably more influence than an ordinary citizen. Solimnisation is a control mechanism for the legality of legal traffic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13055	Time, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13056	I'm sorry, let me finish. Who minds controlling the legality of legal traffic, that something of the law wants to cover it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13057	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm informing the MPs that I had to delete the list, to give my word to Mr. Secretary. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13058	Mr. Chairman, I don't understand the nervousness and trembling of the voice and the increased voice when Saric is mentioned, but what I said was in the form of a question. However, what is not in the form of a question, which is a fact, is that they are from dirty money acquired by drug trafficking, if it can be called money acquisitions at all, bought orans, fields in Vojvodina, hotels. With such money, Mile Jerkovic, Saric and the team also bought hotels, not at the time of the government of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, but at the time of the DS government. At the time of the government of Alexander Vukic and the SNS, they are both in detention units and they are seeing lawyers, although they are not seeing them now, but they are seeing judicial guards and prison guards and they are where they are for such people a place, not on Tatar Hill, gardening in fairies, residences, swimming pools, yachts, planes, hotels, on orans that are privatized by dirty money, with the act or inaction of those who had to prevent such things, which is then the government led by DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13059	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13060	Thank you. I feel like someone's against the legal security of citizens. Somebody's got a problem with this, I don't know what reason. I'll try to explain to the citizens what this is all about. I mean, today, you have to get everything under public record. To tell you the truth, a lawyer could have made a contract by now. No one's defending it. You can put the contract together. I can make two people who aren't even lawyers. But it just has to go through the public record. That's how lawyers could have put together a contract by now, but the court or local self-government verified them, they didn't have the right to verify them. Now they're allowed here, and it's a good thing they're changing, that they can put together a real estate contract, I don't know why it was taken away, I think it was a mistake, and it's a good thing it's coming back, but it has to go through a public record. And why is that? Because the public notary of law has established responsibility. He doesn't have the right to just verify something like that and just let it go into legal traffic. Because he answers, and even criminally, it seems to me, for what he has confirmed. That's why he's obliged to say when the real estate contract comes, the apartment to check if there's a mortgage on that apartment, whether it's been sold multiple times. It's happened as many times as you want, especially in Belgrade. Then he has to warn both sides that something like that exists. I don't know why it bothers anyone. I don't know how they didn't mind when, say, some firm from Katja bought land by the highway. They know very well who it's about. It damaged the country by 370m euros. Do you know what the number is? Someone damaged the state that way, and it doesn't bother him, but he does mind if someone controls it today. It's really something amazing. So if this were to be accepted as an amendment, we would return the opportunity to the citizens to enjoy, if it could be called pleasure, legal uncertainty. In this way, such a contract must pass through the public record is obtained on legal certainty because the notary himself is responsible and guilty of what he confirms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13061	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13062	Obviously, we have a misunderstanding about the amendments that we have commented on by colleague Aleksandra Jerkov and I, a banal misunderstanding, but a profound misunderstanding that is being looked at in who is allowed to submit an amendment, so over whether anyone should mention that someone in the government should resign or yell down the government, to an argument that does not exist. The argument given by the Government, with the agreement of the Minister of Justice, states that the amendment to which it is concerned is not accepted, because Article 4. The draft law whose erasure is proposed requires the necessary harmonisation of the proposed amendments to the Immobility Transport Act and, in view of the consistency between those two laws and their clearer application in practice. The already established amendment of the Immobility Transport Act took place two months ago, deprived lawyers of any involvement in immovable activity. Don't even try to talk about general security, about how the notebooks work and stuff, it's about reality. This amendment is here because two months ago, lawyers were removed as a profession. (Ninoslav Girić, from the place: We heard. We have heard the people's messengers earn, but you do not say what you have heard. It's my fault. I know you know all this, but it would be nice if we all knew that we were having a dialogue, not made-up things and things like that were good for the story. So, the provision we're asking to delete is back in shape from 2011, and my remark was to find a solution that, because of not agreeing to seek a real compromise by the minister of justice, along with the lawyers, all of the cost of conflict comes to citizens. He can go to a lawyer if he wants to, it's demeaning and what the professions and all of us are here, but eventually he has to go to the notebook. I said I've submitted the amendment, or you can accept it, which would require other actions, or I could try to convince you to resume your agreement with your lawyers. We'll come to this assembly in two months, and I'll be very sorry if I'm right, to talk about the same subject, because we all know what this is about, and we're talking about what it's about. It's legitimate to say that it's not about amending the law two months ago, but it's useless, unproductive, and that's why I comment on what I think needs to be commented on that it would remain beyond any doubt what the consequences will produce such a voted, amended and updated Law on Public Records.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13063	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13064	Thank you, Your Honor. My distinguished predecessor, as a person who explicitly insists on a democratic spirit in his work in the National Assembly, which I respect, respect and respect and I try to be that way in all things, has predicted one thing. When discussions on a problem and on something are being conducted to solve this problem, the talks can be well - guided to resolve the problem and can be led to an unsatisfactory extent so as not to solve the problem. Several of my colleagues spoke before me about your amendment to the amendment to the Law on Public Records, which the Serbian Attorney's Chamber delivered to the justice department. This is exactly the proposal, absolutely, and I can grant you this 262-page file, absolutely defusing the public records system. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: It has nothing to do with the amendment. ) It also has something to do with this amendment because my distinguished predecessors insisted on returning to the compromise talks. It is from this provision of Article 4. You can see that there has been a solution that neither sides are satisfied nor both sides are thrilled. That's what compromise is all about. Everything else would be ultimatums. If, through a proposed solution, a lawyer has the opportunity to charge a certain fee from the citizens for his professional, intellectual work, and then a notary will not charge the same as if he was doing everything alone, then it is a compromise solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13065	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13066	As one contribution to not deluding people who are watching the transfer of this session of the congregation, we should not underestimate the legal literacy of the people who are watching us and who will participate in the traffic of immobilities. When you conclude a contract and sign the confirmation in court, which could have been done recently, you, on the basis of such a contract, register property rights in your name. It's got nothing to do with handing over possessions, taking possession of possessions, whether someone before you did before closing the contract accidentally entered that apartment or not. Also from all these sales risks, people are not protected even in case they work a public record. Because the notary makes a public record, but doesn't go with him to the door of the apartment and doesn't hand him the keys, doesn't hand him over the property. So, don't go after grandmothers and frogs, don't make any unnecessary delusions about people who are extremely legally written and who know what a lawyer's been doing so far, and what a public notary is doing right now. The public record is only an executive document and reduces the risk of conducting a litigation procedure, and that does not mean automatic legal certainty when handing over the property. I'm asking colleagues I don't know if they're lawyers, but to listen as I listen to you. If you have anything to say, feel free to sign up, but that bar drop is inappropriate for the National Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13067	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13068	I don't think we're here for a single moment, to quote, "We're not chasing grandmothers and frogs, "and we're not deluding citizens." The proof that we are not deluding the citizens is just being told by my distinguished colleague who spoke before me, when she said – that is, the public notary does not lead anyone into possession. That's true, but if the one who bought a field can't get into possession, then the public notebook responds, not only criminally, but responds materially. Since I know you're a lawyer, and there are more people in this hall of the respected House of the National Assembly who are a lawyer, I'd like to hear an example from over 160 years of history of Serbian law where the attorney really replied to his property because he put together a contract whose accuracy he guaranteed, and after that he himself suffered material consequences. One of the reasons why he couldn't do it, among other things, let's face it, is that the lawyer didn't issue an account for the job he was doing, which is based on the example I cited here two days ago in the National Assembly, if you have in one city municipality in Belgrade, the Zemun Municipality in one month was certified in court of 226 immobility contracts, and on only 19 you have the seal of a lawyer who made the contract. At all 19, the lawyer stood behind what he wrote. Then it's a big question and a big problem. This is an executive document whose accuracy is corresponded to a public notebook.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13069	Time. Thank you. The word has Professor Vladimir Pavicevic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Mr Becic, the Honorable Mr Selakovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I really believe it is very important that we speak very precisely about the amendment that colleagues Stefanovic, Martinovic and Bozovic have submitted to Article 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration. Here, for the sake of precision, what did the government suggest? The government has proposed to be in Article 83. The Law on Public Registration after Item 5 adds the position 6 which is, now commenting on the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13071	Mr. Pavicevic, I'm asking you just to make it clear to me - we're talking about an amendment to Article 4?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13072	Amendment to Article 4, I'm talking about it too. Please just...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13073	But the amendment to Article 4 submitted jointly by the MPs Gordana Komic and the magistrate of Aleksandra Jerkov?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13074	All right, amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a Law on Public Registration. You've opened a debate on that amendment as far as I understand?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13075	... who were sent by the messengers of the people, Gordana Komic, and the magistrate of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13076	That's the last one, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13077	We're not up to that amendment yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13078	I'm sorry I made a mistake, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13079	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13080	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I admit that I have no difference in the knowledge of legal as has a distinguished colleague Martinovic, but according to every challenge by accessing the engineering logic that I have learned from and the role of an ordinary citizen. That logic with the upheaval of legal knowledge compared to the esteemed colleague Martinovic tells me something else. So far, someone who is a citizen of this country, who is a entrant in real estate, who is a buyer, who made a contract with a lawyer, who later went to the court office on top of that contract, an office that doesn't have to verify the truthfulness of the contract itself. He paid a tax, which is shown in the contract, which may also not have an agreement with market value, on which the state loses, and I went to that apartment or to that property that neither the notary nor the lawyer admits it to. He saw a problem there that he hadn't seen before, a changed lock, someone else or someone else who knocks maybe after him, because it's been sold over and over again. What is this entrant doing in real estate? What will this Serbian citizen, so threatened, do with that contract? To return to the same lawyer who has not guaranteed anything, we have heard this from Mr Selakovic, and again to pay the tax, and again to pay the obligation of that lawyer or someone else, and to initiate the lawsuit, there is no third option, or what this evil proposal foresees is that the contract, consisting of a lawyer or a lawyer or a person with whom it can be made, is soloizing with the notary and thus gets the role of a public executive, a public executive with my humble legal knowledge, but I have informed myself enough about every draft law, because it is part of a parliamentary obligation, with such correction, goes to an apartment that the notary does not take him away. He sees the same problem and he doesn't go back to the notaries, nor his lawyer to start a lawsuit that will last a year, two, three, five, with anxiety, expenses, and even sometimes not to see the end of that lawsuit. Then he goes to court to execute with the perpetrators, with the police, with the authorities that have to provide it coming to the door of that apartment, that someone who's against the law here, by the hand, by the ear, for anything being carried out from the apartment, and a man gets into possession of what he paid by contract, solemnizes, gets a public executive order without new charges to lawyers, no new litigation, no new anxiety, no new waste of time with a big message that this is a legal and secure state for every individual.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13081	Thank you. I'm sorry, I thought you were finishing up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13082	I, as an ordinary citizen, continue to say, see progress with the passing of legal knowledge, see security, security for real estate participants, but I also see security for the state, because the Vrakar apartment will not be presented in a 500-euro contract. In the gray cash zone, something else will be done and in this way legalize black cash flows, launder money. The state will remain deprived of that tax that is marketable, which is correct, and the citizens will be safe and secure. That is how we see and see the role of the public notebook and the document that he has drawn up as public executives.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13083	Thank you, Mr. Babic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13084	Thank you. As a comment to the minister on how an agreement was reached and with gratitude for making it so clear, which remained in the stenogram - so, the Ministry of Justice and lawyers agreed to this member of the change and addition on behalf of the citizens. Lawyers aren't completely satisfied. You have a majority to vote on, and the citizen will go to lawyers and notaries on this proposal. But it doesn't bother me as much as it's a common shame that you don't understand the same banal misunderstanding here, but deep down. The Law on Public Records is not against lawyers as professions, nor are the provisions of his law or grounds, nor are the grounds for speaking about criminals among lawyers or among notaries. The public records bill...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13085	Mrs. Comic, you're done, since the time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13086	... So, the Law on Public Records needs to dissipate courts and lawyers to leave her alone. I'll see you here in two months.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13087	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The Democratic Party has no more time, except for the time of power. The word has a minister in the government, Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13088	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one more material lie. No one here has agreed on the citizens' account, but on the contrary, has agreed on behalf of the citizens, because what this whole assembly debate is under way and I suppose an unintentionally forgotten is one thing. These amendments and additions to the law suggest that a contract can be drawn up by a citizen himself regardless of whether he is a lawyer, whether he is a graduate lawyer, whether he has graduated from a high-level Law-Birotechnical school or perhaps a graduate engineer of engineering. That is what is in favour of the citizens, because the citizen can draw up the contract, and contrary to the proposal given by another opposition parliamentary group, where she said only a lawyer or a public notary could do it. No, I don't. Whoever's legally written can sit down and make a deal, but that contract eventually comes to a public notebook. So you can do that, and you can sit down, see in article 84. The law on public records which are essential elements of the public record, to the member who has been proposed by the lawyer to be deleted. So, sit down, see what are the essential elements of the public record, together, if you want to give some real estate to a close relative or friend, put it in shape with all those elements that have a public record, except for the first item that the public notary put together, and go to the public notebook, he turns it from private to public correct. As such, he has the power of an executive public document or, to be understood by the citizens, the power of a judicial judicial executive verdict.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13089	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Mladenovic. Please, Mr. Mladenovic, I apologize for waiting so long.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration in Article 4 as provided for in the amendment should take away the powers of the public notary to carry out the following tasks that are taxed. Under 1. – draws up, verifys, issues of public documents on legal matters statements and facts on which rights are based and confirms private documents. Under 2nd-- it takes over to store IDs, money, securities of value and other items. Under 3. - under this law and by decision of the court, the tasks which can be entrusted to him by law, shall be taken by other actions in accordance with the law. By erasing this article, all the powers of the public notary would be taken away, and in this way, what is in the explanation would be confused with the final effect that the law should produce. The amendment has a political background and is a front for political action, just as the negotiations with the management of the Bar have a political background, but with inconclusive consequences for lawyers in small areas, as representatives of the management of legal chambers are mostly engaged in other consultations in private firms, deal with politics or have other sources of income, and with their repressive measures and pressures and tortures endanger the existence of lawyers in small-scale areas that are no longer allowed to represent parties in the dispute for more than 55 days. The key word is that they must not represent parties in the dispute and thus knowingly destroy small law offices, lawyers in small areas and their families. I believe, Your Honor, that you have made a maximum concession and that you no longer need to give in to amendments or in further negotiations with the management of the bar, because you have given the maximum maximum. It is clear to everyone in Serbia that this is a political matter and that these are attempts at new blackmail and possibly your personal humiliation as a minister. One of the exits is for lawyers to cancel their obedience to the bar and to change the unconscious leadership within their chamber, which they paid for about 4,000 euros in work this year. For these lawyers, it is the obligations of the National Assembly and of us MPs to preserve them through the change of legal regulations and to protect them from further terror and harassment they are exposed to. I am taking this opportunity to invite all the lawyers, since I am not a lawyer and I am not a lawyer and I cannot bear any coincidences, to cancel the obedience of the Chamber and to choose within themselves for the fundamental rights that the Constitution guarantees them, and to ensure that you, Mr Selakovic, do not give in to the dignity of the minister and that you do not give in to the pressures and blackmails of the management of the Bar Association, because they do not see the end, to ensure, regardless of the reactions that would result from the non-governmental sector, and from the external factor, to do what must be done and to provide lawyers who are in the vast majority, who want to work, to return to their business and to ensure within the shortest time limit of the functioning of the judicial system. For this reason, I suggest, among other things, that this amendment be not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13091	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. The word is made by the People's Messenger Gordana Komic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13092	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I think you have failed to warn, and that you later warn the speaker, because during the presentation he has violated the provisions of Article 106, which says that the speaker can only speak about the agenda, only you can interrupt him, and a 107 member where he is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, where he is not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. It can't be clearer. I think it's a common shame to be silent about the amendment that reads to erase a written attitude, such dysfunctions, inadmissible words about people who aren't present in the hall or are, but you're silent, so all the dysfunctions relate to generalization to the entire profession. I just said -- the Law on Public Registration is neither a law against lawyers, nor a law that should in any way reduce the quality of life of citizens, but is a law that allows you to disband courts and that we have modern notation. The fact that you have missed, I believe with hope, that the speaker will remember in time that there are provisions, whatever the heat of discussion, this Rules of Procedure that must respect has produced that we have all witnessed here a speech that is inadmissible in the National Assembly, if, or any group of persons, if it applies individually to anyone who is connected in this case profession, with the hope that you will be able to correct, I do not want to make a statement, but this simply cannot be left without comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13093	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I have to explain, I haven't heard everything you've just said, I haven't heard the previous speaker say, but I haven't heard you speak loudly in your part of the hall, and from the noise you've been making, you've also noticed that I've been ringing, I haven't heard what the previous speaker is saying at all. Mr. Mladenovicu, you have no right to report to the Rules of Procedure, the breach of the Rules of Procedure does not have a replica. You have no option at this time, you can't report for replication or explanation after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Vesna Martinovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13094	Thank you. When the minister says he has not heard that any lawyer has been held guilty or materially responsible for the failures in his work, it surprises me because of the provisions of Article 37. The law on law of law is a prescribed obligation of all lawyers to insurance against professional responsibility. I don't trust the Minister that you don't know about it. I would not like it to be interpreted as being lawyers of people who, without any obligation or responsibility, are doing their job and that the public records of people who, behold, are both criminally and materially and in any other way are responsible for every written word. I suppose because of this responsibility they also write that they do not personally verify the contributions delivered and that parties, participants in some legal work, unanimously declare that they release a public notary from any kind of liability, which, of course, would not be of any importance in any court procedure, but I am telling you about how public notebooks experience their own responsibility and how parties who address public notaries face what they are and what their responsibility is. The second thing, when we talk about what public records are and what they are, I am obliged to explain to the public records and the public and executive documents, and that only a public ID is segregated when it comes out of the public notebook's office. Show me a member of the law that says that the solemnized document is both public and executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13095	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The word has a minister in the government, Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13096	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to respond to this last one. The soloisation process is the process of turning the private id into a public id, and only an Id that meets all of the elements of Article 84 can be polymerized. The Law on Public Registration, which is made up of the form of a public notary, and the public notation is an executive document. Who doesn't get it, he needs to sit down and read the law well, and then he'll get it. Yes, you're absolutely right, the obligation to ensure professional responsibility of a lawyer is prescribed and should be prescribed. I didn't even ask the question. I asked the question - when in the 160-year history of law enforcement did a lawyer professionally, not criminally, but answer materially? A third, very important thing, and I would like you to listen to me as carefully as I have listened to you. So the third most important thing, I didn't get an answer to the question -- why does someone bother controlling the legality of the contract they put together? Why does someone have a problem with a contract that becomes a public document being checked? Why does someone bother to see if everything in that contract is written in accordance with the law, not touching the freedom of the contractor? Why does someone have a problem controlling that contract? Does anyone want anything from the law to cover it up, from the state to cover it up? I don't know, I just asked the question – why does someone bother to have an insight, so all they ask is legalization, or over the signature?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13097	Mr. Minister, thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13098	Dear Minister, you know very well that I wasn't just talking about legalizing, but that it is necessary to allow both legalization and soloisation of the immovable transport contract, but it is not for the state to be the one to tell legal workers what's better for them, but to leave them with the possibility to choose between the two variants of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13099	Thank you. Mrs. Martinovic, the time has elapsed for you as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, so the DS has no more time. The word is made by MP Goran Mladenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13100	Dear ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the removal of Article 4 from the amendment further produces confusion and confusion in the existing law. I wanted to inform Mrs. Comic, too bad she came out, that only in Vladica's Han in 55 days the strike was supposed to be held at 902 trials, and neither was held. If we have about 150 such places in Serbia, then we can easily conclude that there are about a million to a million to a million and a half trials that were to be held in Serbia, and none has been held. It's a shame that this strike produces, and the product is the fear of lawyers by the management of the bar. That's exactly what I want to say here, which is the final message and what we all know, and nobody's talking about it, because licenses are being taken away, because lawyers are suspending themselves for this kind of procedure and these kinds of attempts. This leads to the fact that the judiciary has been acting for the last 55 days and that lawyers are denied the right to work, that they must not publicly state their opinion and have no right to freedom of opinion and speech. Not to mention there have been a lot of cases of human trafficking in these trials, trafficking in white slavery, drug trafficking. This strike is held by force, he's artificially and lawyers represent leadership, lawyers represent the hostages of the Attorney's Chamber's leadership. That's what goes on about the back of citizens, which we talked about earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13101	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13102	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, the entire course of today's debate over the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on Public Libraries and the Law on Transport of Immobility went somewhat beyond what was not necessary, which is to deepen the conflict between the two institutions, lawyers and notaries or public notaries. Our very clear political position of the SPS parliamentary group is that the state needs both lawyers and public notebooks and that everyone within their jurisdiction must take care of one objective only, which is to protect the interests of citizens, with full legal certainty and the security of the rule of law. Mr. Chairman of Becic, I'm just going to ask that my time be not only the time I use by amendment, but also the time of the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. What has been kind of forgotten here all along is the fact that what is easier for a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, what is simpler in the transport of immovableity how to reach its goal? We strongly support the principle of solemnization, i.e. confirmation. To make it clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what solemnisation is, it is a confirmation of the real estate contract in a particularly prescribed procedure, of course, by the law of the prescribed procedure. But we are also of the view that, in addition to this legal institute, since it is both in theory and in practice, there must be a legalisation procedure, that is, a signing order for those involved in immovable activity. Why am I saying this? I'm going to illustrate it on an ordinary case of life. I want to give my daughter real estate, I want to give her a cadastrian plot. Between the two of us as a entrant in immovableity, because the gift of traffic is immovableity, there is a relationship of complete trust, absolute trust. We have no luxuriant intentions. I, as an honest and honest man, who I strive to be, don't want to fool anyone, not the state, not anyone. If it's necessary to define in the Immobility Gift Contract, I'll define it realistic. But if I define it unrealistic, let me put a single dinar worth that cadastrian plot, it will intervene the tax administration and say that this gift contract cannot be accepted. By the way, let me correct myself, between parents and children, and there is no obligation to pay real estate tax, and the point is that the state and the budget are protected. The second illustrative example attached to this is the next one. If my daughter has a desire to provide a housing loan on the basis of the donated immovableity that her father gave her, that contract can be soloized with me, or confirmed. Either way, we're going to the public notebook. In the first case, we don't need anything more than a signing order. That signing over on the contract will be done by a public notary. If there is a need to carry out confirmation, my daughter will tell me – yes, but on the basis of only a signature certificate I do not satisfy my whole interest, I am also asking what means a higher degree of legal certainty, I want the public notebook to confirm my contract and issue me a public record. Could I say no? No, I don't. In that situation, the public notary shall issue a public record of soloisation, i.e. confirmation. Such cases are in practice present. Gifts are essentially traffic, traffic of immovable property. There are trust relations in a much larger number of cases. We have in the villages of neighbors who have been in great relationships since the ages over their ancestors. When it comes to sales, they don't need solemnization, except for the signature. They've had enough of the signatures because of this relationship of trust between them, the inability to abuse anyone, anyone, anyone, not the state at least. Again, the intervention of the tax administration is always possible and present and here all the MPs who have met with traffic immovableity, and surely most of them are, and how well they know. Therefore, two equal institutes, legalisation and solemnisation, i.e. confirmation in translation is the first one over, the second confirmation should be present in the law. In this way, we provide citizens with what is necessary for citizens, that it is mandatory to report to the notary. What we strongly support is abolishing the exclusiveity of public notebooks. What we support the public record through confirmation is true, it achieves the power of the executive, although it is dissuasive, the executive documents, because it is possible in the law of the prescribed procedure and to bring down, as well as any other executive documents. The provisions of the law on enforcement and security say that an executive document can be refuted and each of us can refute it, which does not mean that, by automatedity, an executive document introduces anyone into possession, but that the executive document must be checked, so let the notary make it, and he is subject to the responsibilities that he has made, but only subject to liability if he has illegally made it. If it is contrary to the provisions of the law, if it has misused its position or has acquired a certain illegal property benefit. In all other cases, it has drawn up a public record which implies an over-executive executive order. We in the SPS parliamentary group are committed to respecting the so-called "supervised". the social element, since it is not the same price for a public notary that will only be paid for the overture of the signature, compared to the price it will pay for the confirmation. Why? Because, in any case, he has to pay twice in both case of confirmation and in case of confirmation. In the case of an overa, they will pay a fee to a lawyer for drawing up a private document in the form of a contract, and then they will pay to the public notary the amount provided for in the tariff for the overa, but they will no longer pay as much as the tariff for the public record. In the second case, if an intervention by the Authority is required to confirm that the executive document in a special procedure, the amount of payment with the notaries will be higher in that situation, as the tariff also provides for. It's simple and simple, one is a tariff for overa signature, the other is a tariff for confirming signatures or solemnization. There's this difference and there's a need to prevent the burden of citizens. That is what involves the essence of our amendments. In the end, I just want to point out something that seems inevitable to me, as one need, we must insist that citizens be satisfied with the maximum extent. We don't have a lawyer's request here, we don't have a notary's request, we need citizens' demands. How we're going to burden them, how and to what extent, how we're going to provide them with legal certainty and how we're going to ensure the rule of law at the same time. We think, in the SPS parliamentary group, that this is possible through these amendments. I'm not going to talk about any other amendments, nor do I think of the fact that in this amendment I've shown everything that's the essence of the amendment, but let's not deepen the gap between the ministry and the law. The ministry and the lawyer are on the way to the agreement, and we must stimulate both this desire and our support for the government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Vukic, Minister Selakovic, to come to an agreement. We have no other option and we cannot generalize. Today I spoke as a folk MP, as a representative of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia whose interests I represent, I did not speak as a lawyer, but I want to be here never again in the course of the debate, nor at any time generalising any evaluation of the lawyers. There are 8,000 or 9,000 lawyers in Serbia, who do their job honestly and honestly. Personally, I find it inadmissible to paralyze one pillar of power, which is the judicial authority. It is also unacceptable with inconceivable adverse consequences that we do not have what we must have and that is the availability of justice to citizens, i.e. the availability of courts to citizens and, of course, the efficiency of courts. Without a high-quality judiciary, there's no quality of attorney, because it's one thing with the other and one without the other can't. I am firmly convinced that the government of the Republic of Serbia has absolutely nothing against lawyerry and should not be guided by generalisation, it is necessary to take care of the spoken word as I was distracted in the principle debate. That is why the SPS parliamentary group supports the greatest together with these proposals that we have through the amendments affirmed what means much satisfaction for the interests of citizens, but there is another far more important reason, and that reason is also the protection of our economy. We will have many contracts dear friends and fellow MPs where there will be only a need for this, but not for solemnization, not for confirmation. I have to give an example of where the state saved it, the minister knows it as a member of the government, where the state saved one of our giant, commercial entity that is giant, and that's "Smederevo Iron." After the devastating way of selling that same hardware, the state returned, took responsibility for the hardware store. How's the contract made up? The contract is made up of $1. That was the value. If I'm wrong, correct me. Then the question is, if it's one dollar, would the notary be allowed to accept that amount through a public record, if they were to follow the concept of what the value of the contract means. The value of the contract is a verifiable category and always protected from the state apparatus, primarily from the tax administration. I am convinced that as a lawyer and Mr. Minister as a lawyer, we have a full agreement on two objectives. One objective is the legal certainty of citizens who are provided with participation and attorneyship in the transport of immovable property related to public records. Which means that without a public record, there's no way to get past any real estate traffic. The second goal is to make it easier, more efficient and cheaper for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, believe me, the most sincere, well-intentioned motivation of the SPS parliamentary group is that these amendments are presented in this way, that in this way they are affirmed with a request to be respected and understood, because this is a way of overcoming a complete problem throughout the country, especially the justice of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13103	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13104	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a colleague, Jovanovic, said a lot in an exhaustive and meaningful presentation, but he had little time to look back at everything. I absolutely agree with him that he said it is unacceptable to paralyze a pillar of power as it is absolutely unacceptable that if, say, counterpart Jovanovic would start working tomorrow, to automatically experience punishment, or sanctions from his Bar Association, which is absolutely unacceptable. Which is why many lawyers who want to start working can't start working because they're being punished, because if someone gives them the right to strike, as they say, to stop working, it also makes it impossible for them to work. It's a constitutional category and basic human right, the right to work. You're right, but only in part, dear colleague when you say about the gift agreement. But it's a contract that can get in the rights of third parties. Well, if someone wants to give their daughter a flat or a cadastrian plot because she knows that the execution on that apartment or on that catastrian plot is near, and this is not just a legalization and an over-signature by a judicial authority or in its role as a public notebook that does not enter into the content of that contract, it is not fair, because it enters the rights of third parties. It's something you should also say, and it's on a public record to determine whether or not it is. And when you mentioned a case of privatisation, let's say, the Irons, or many other companies that have been sold for one euro or one dollar or one dollar, it should also be said that these are specific contracts in the economy. You take over the company for one euro, but take over, say, all its debts of 300m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13105	Thank you. Time. Thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: I beg you for a word.) On what basis? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: By amendment. After the amendment? Then sit down because other colleagues have come forward and you have no advantage but in the end come forward. The word is Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13106	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, as an authorised representative of our parliamentary group in the debate, I did not want to speak in principle, and today I am reporting for the first time. I report to you absolutely with the best possible intention that the first law that you have not brought and the cassation from the fires you draw, not your fault, should first be in the best form possible in the interests of citizens, not lawyers or public notaries, and then end this strike by a lawyer who is the biggest strike in the history of our attorney. That's one practical reason, but you'll assume my good intentions to recognize and I want to say something publicly. With an informal conversation with the Minister of Justice, whom I see as a good minister and my dear friend, I also spoke with lawyers, in the best interest of giving my contribution as a MP, a constructive contribution to finding the best solutions. In 2011, I strongly supported the introduction of public records into our legal order. It's a tectonic disorder, it's a big revolution. We tried to do it in the 1930s, but in part, the notary system only came to life in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In the rest of Serbia because of a large number, first of all because of the absence of land books, the unsettled catastrian state, etc., it simply did not come to life, and I was then very optimistic that with one law, which normally looked quite good, we would do the best possible thing. But now there's his application and there's trouble. I'll try to, here, if we didn't purposely write this amendment when we saw Mr. Jovanovic's amendment, we thought, for a long time, that this was probably the key to solving all the problems. If the Ministers, the SPO in some things agrees with the SPS, its biggest opponent and party that is our most programmingly distant, then I think this will say enough for itself. Mr. Jovanovic made some remarks out of practice, out of life. I've been in law enforcement, I've met many examples, the ones he said I won't mention, but I'll mention others. For example, I own my own yard and gate for 10, 20, 30 years with the consent of my first neighbor extended my entrance and took a piece of his land. That's, like, a foot square. We want it now, so I'm basically in possession of a piece of his immovableity, that's what we want to legalize to do legal work. How are we gonna do that? We're gonna put together a contract or we're gonna get a lawyer, we're gonna go to a notary just on the contract's cover, and that's the one that used to do the court. We don't have any dangers here that have been talked about and considered very carefully here. So I'm also in possession of immovable property, the actual state of affairs is that, and then the doing of that id with public correction would suit us with the procedure and that half a meter of square would, which is a negligible price on the market, cost us a lot more which is not the purpose and purpose of speaking about this social category as well. Secondly, especially where people have been intercessors for centuries, where families, heirs, inherited order, where there's a relationship of complete trust, people won't feel the need at all, and they're going to wonder why the state is asking me to put so much trust to the mind of the neighbor that we've all agreed on, and we've come into possession and paid the purchase price, there's no irregularities, anyway, the notary will, before she puts her seal on to check why the state asks me to have something called, and you've called it a very good, preventive verdict. I don't have any doubts, the job is completely done for us, and then the state asks me for something that we don't think is necessary. Secondly, public confirmation of the contract, the assembly of the public record is deeply justified in many cases. I was talking to the NSRS, and it seems to me that this 35,000 deceived citizens in the traffic of immovableity, in which the example is, one apartment sold five, ten, twelve times where citizens had no ability to verify whether this apartment was previously sold, it's a disaster of economic, social, human, for one family who spends her whole life separate from her mouth to buy immobility, to provide herself or the child with a roof over her head and then schedule the state in such a type of checkup, allow some criminals to sell the immovableity multiple times, and whether we're putting together a public record with a reminder that since 2010, we have a court record of immobility, so let's say in Belgrade if you want to sell the apartment, leave until you start working the notebooks, to verify the contract, and you already sold the immobility simply won't be able to do it because of good records. For this reason, I think it is absolutely deeply justified that the Ministry of Justice should do so in some situations. Contracts on joint construction are very complex contracts, to draw up such a contract, and only practice when joint construction occurs most often leads to litigation. It is absolutely justified to draw up public records, but we are from the point of view of respect for the provisions of the Law on Liabilities, Freedom of Contracting, Freedom of Decision, the fact that the obligation, namely the legal obligation of a lawyer, under the Law on Legal Assistance, the Service of Legal Assistance, because the legal obligation and the notary to present to each party what it means is only an overarching or legalisation of a specific contract, that it is a lower degree of legal certainty and that the party is absolutely engaged in all the accompanying risks, and that the assembly of a public record is absolutely replacing a judicial executive verdict and that it is something that enables the parties to avoid the multi-annual harassment of the conduct of various judicial disputes, from litigation to damage, to criminal proceedings for fraud and not all things. That's why I think that, since the law regulates the obligation of both lawyers and notaries to present to the parties all the risks of signing, only the certificates of a contract or the assembly of a public record, that we simply don't need citizens all, in all situations, to experience as underage children that the state has to lead by hand and take care of them. No, it's the state that has to with its legal solutions just to create a fair system and the right to choose. And the right choice is on our citizen. Will they schedule a lawyer, if the lawyer does not present all the risks of such a kind of job or notary, they respond both criminally and materially. Lawyers are obliged to be insured, notaries respond to their property and on this side citizens are absolutely protected. That is why I am of the opinion that we really need to consider this amendment very carefully. The opinion of our parliamentary group is that this is the key to solving all the problems that not only burden the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and your ministers, but also burden our public. The public should know that the creator of such a law is not Mr. Selakovic, and even if it is, the intention is the best. More responsibility, Minister, is mine for a bill like this that came into practice than yours, because I strongly supported it, but I didn't know what problems were going to happen in practice, because it was simply in that assembly there were 850 laws. Mostly the laws came through the emergency procedure. We've had a little time to think about all the provisions of the law and everything they're going to produce tomorrow in practice. I think there really is time for this amendment to be carefully considered and I think that accepting this amendment would really solve all the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13107	Thank you. The word is Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13108	The President-in-Office, distinguished ministers, as well as the previous speaker, I believe that the amendment of counterpart Nedja Jovanovic really needs to be reconsidered, because this amendment really represents a solution to the problem of the relationship between lawyers -- notaries -- ministry. On the one hand, it is possible, i.e. the amendment, that citizens can decide for themselves who will draw up their own immovable transport contract, whether they will do it themselves, or they will entrust it to the lawyer, or they will still entrust it to the notary, which is also the Constitution guaranteeing them the right. Also, since it has been repeated several times today that someone wants to avoid responsibility, or to avoid control, I don't think that's why we're all discussing this issue today, but it's really wanted to find the best solution for citizens. If you and I want to do some real-estate traffic and conclude it ourselves, and we want that contract to only go public, then we only pay the bill. Under the proposal of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Note Act, we would also be obliged to pay 60% of the otherwise foreseen price for drawing up the contract, so that it is still a cost for those citizens who want to make their own purchase contracts. I think it's out of this whole discussion both in principle and today in particular that the real estate agencies have been shut down. We cannot avoid that they are also crucial in this whole business and that the Law on Real Estate Mediating agencies, in Article 16, provides for certain obligations and responsibilities of intermediaries. Then, the agencies are predicted to be among insurance companies secured from the potential damage caused by the employers. On the other hand, the Public Notebooks Act provides that public notebooks guarantee their assets to the parties to the correctness of the documentation on the basis of which the immovable property contract is to be drawn up. We know it's a real estate agency, that the law now obliges them to be licensed agents. That's all some extra expenses. Why am I talking about real estate agencies now? Because they're the key to this job, too. Everyone's talking about lawyers and perhaps some possible damage that lawyers are suffering from this law, but no one mentions real estate agencies that are also in some way affected, on the one hand, they are undermining their obligations, on the other hand, certain rights are being denied. If agencies also have to guarantee the correctness of the documentation on the basis of which a real estate transfer contract is made, is that double responsibility, they also have agencies, are there notebooks that make up the purchase contract? I just wanted to hear your opinion about it, and to say that indeed everyone, especially from the SPS parliamentary group, is trying to find the best possible solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13109	According to the amendment, the word is News Tonchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13110	Dear President, dear Minister Selakovic, honourable fellow MPs, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to commend my fellow SPO predecessor, who praised our amendments. I'm reporting for these amendments, and I believe, Your Honor, that we need to accept our amendments that will fix a law like this that our congregation majority has not passed. As you know, the SPS parliamentary group welcomes the introduction of public notaries, or notaries to Serbia, and we also welcome all the harmonisations of our legislation with the EU, but as MPs of the SPS and the party that advocates social direction, we also need to know that citizens are most complaining about the heights of fees, rewards, or as you call them, that they are large. I think the members of the European Commission know what kind of economic situation Serbia is in, so they too will understand if these fees and fees are less for our citizens. This law was passed by some congregation majority where I was not an MP and I did not vote for this law, but I want to say that this law was good and that in 2011, the previous parliamentary majority, in 2011, had passed good laws, the citizens would certainly not have trusted them, asked for reforms, and would not have given votes to both your party and ours, and that we are making the majority in this assembly home today. That is why the SPS also submits these amendments to fix how much this law can be fixed, and we are not against the introduction of notaries and public notebooks. I'm going to give you an example, which I just said, at the height of the fee. This is a living example that happened to me and my company. Namely, my company made a property purchase contract worth 1,200,000 euros five years ago. That's when they paid 20,000 dinars to a lawyer for making a contract and they paid 47,000 dinars for overing that contract in court. Now I should have made an annex contract where I would only change two members of that contract. We agreed with the signator of the other side of the contract. I went to the same lawyer, he says -- it's what public notebooks do now, I'm going to have to ask what and how we should do it. He asked and said - Mr. Tonchev, in order to make an annex, we need to pay the public notebook 720,000 dinars. At first, I thought it was a mistake, and then maybe I misused my parliamentary mandate and I said, "If that's true, then I'll comment on it in the Assembly, check on that notebook again." He left again, and then he told me -- because it's an annex, it's going to pay half, 300,000 dinars. I think that's a high price, too. However, these changes today that we're bringing in, that 30% will go to the state and that we can make ourselves, or that a lawyer will make contracts for us, I think that price will be lower. If the same price remains, then it's better to pursue a lawsuit in such cases than pay this much. I'm saying that we need to cut down on citizens' fees, try to influence it as a congregational majority and you as a minister, to see the benefit of this law that we have not passed, to see what changes we are making today as a young man, so that we can get the support that in the next term you will be a minister, not that it happens to us, as it did to the previous majority, that citizens do not recognize the good of these laws that we make. There are also questions – why did no one object at the time in 2011 to the adoption of such a law, which is why no one intervened? I can tell you that whenever a law is passed, no one takes care of it then, but only when its application begins. Also, mistakes and faults of all laws are seen only when their application begins. That's why, and these amendments of ours and this amendment that you've proposed, I think it's good, if there's one more step to take and a good law for citizens to apply. Also, in small municipalities, according to this law, we have one notary of 25,000 inhabitants. The municipality I come from is also small, it has 22,000 inhabitants, it may not meet the conditions, but it will certainly get one notary, or public notebook in the municipality. I don't think it's right for one man, and especially that in small communities people know each other, and what if we choose us, I'm a man who divides people into good, bad, working, non-work, not by party structure, not by national structure, what if someone passes a notary exam, appointed by the government as a public notary, and half the city doesn't talk to him? He's gonna be so bad, he's gonna be worse. I realize that there's a move to make on this plan, so even small environments have the opportunity to choose, not just to go to one public notebook. I would like to repeat once again that the Socialist Party Group of Serbia will support changes and additions to this law, will help to the extent possible and in the knowledge that this law applies, because if the whole EU applies it, we should also apply it in Serbia. Thank you for listening to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13111	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13112	Thank you, Madam President. Of course there are different data, sometimes verifiable, sometimes unverified, but what's a fact, the fact is that the 2011 law in one part generated certain problems that are today the focus of our consideration and our attention. Of course, this government and this government are not responsible for this, and my colleague Mirko Chikiriz said -- it's not up to us to get chestnuts out of the fire of some of the failures or failures that happened earlier. In that direction, a colleague named Tomchev pointed out the problems of bad laws. I don't want to read the numbers, I hope the two of us got along in principle, so the numbers don't come into some actual state of affairs. We don't have data on the exact amount of fees, or the reward sought by the notaries, but we do know something that's actually true. It is true that there is a public note tariff, it is true that this public note tariff must be respected. What was our motivation to be extremely honest, extremely well-intentioned, when we offered these amendments, is that, within the context of this note-book tariff, citizens are simply protected, that they are not burdened by the application of the public note tariffs. For this reason, we felt that two equal legal institutes - legalization and solemnisation, or verifications and confirmations, should be standardised, or systematized in this law. I'm sure you'll have an understanding of these motives. I am convinced that you will carefully consider them, as my parliamentary group of the Socialist Party of Serbia and how well it understands when you point out certain problems that can be with a degree of risk. I wasn't talking, Mr. Minister, about a possible violation of the rights of third parties. I was talking about the relationship between the contractor's trust, the immobiliser, where it's almost impossible, where the legal situation is absolutely clean, where there's no problem with anyone, who could suffer the adverse consequences of the conclusion of that legal deal, and I'm talking about a third person. It is about situations that are present in life, practically effective in the sense in which they should be, which is to satisfy the interests of contractors or participants in legal traffic where they need nothing more than what they need, which is legalisation. For soloisation, it is doubtless that as a procedure for intervention by a state body, such as the court, now a public notary, the Socialist Party's parliamentary group of Serbia's Socialist parties, has the greatest support. There is absolutely no problem here, that all immovable transport contracts must be segregated, if necessary for the purpose of meeting the objective of the contract, such as contracts that are defined by law and subject to soloisation, as a life support contract, a grant contract for the life of the leaver, publishing statements, or mortgage agreements, which relate to the setting up of claims on immovable property, there is no dispute over the fact that the public notary has to verify them, that it must exercise control of everything that the participants of the legal work present to him and ultimately make a confirmation, i.e. a public record. In that sense, support is unquestionably and it stands and I guarantee that there are of all the MPs present here, because there must be no dispute about it. I thank you for your assurance that all this which we have pointed out is sufficient reason to respect and accept, with all kinds of support for legal projects that lead to the goal and ultimately, which are respected colleagues and Mirko Chikiriz and my colleague Susana, we believe that this is the key to the problem and the final end of the agony in which the state is concerned with the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13113	Thank you. National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of the People's Parliaments of Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinović and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13114	Thank you. I'm going to try to explain once again why I think contracts that fall within the scope of bonding private law should not be conditioned by the form of a public record. When we talk about business-skilled persons, and they are referred to by this member, it is enough to predict two possibilities, and they as business-affiliated, reasonable and reasonable people to choose a variant that suits them for a specific legal work on immovable property. So the written form is out of every debate. This is understood and has been understood for centuries when the immovableities were at stake. I suggest that, in addition to the written form, we allow the first possibility of legalisation, so the possibility that the contractors can only confirm their signatures on the contract in front of the public notary and the other possibility of the contract being verified, the contract contained in the contract is certified in front of the public notary, but not by the fact that the public notebook is typed, copied, etc. that the parties bring him, but that, with what the parties have brought to the notice, a special public note which will be part of the legal work. So, to be clear again, now that there are no colleagues in this debate bringing this political moment, I'm just professionally speaking...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13115	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13116	Just one more second. Therefore, the written form is understood, which is certified either in the form of legalisation or in the form of solemnisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13117	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, Mr Selakovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I have specifically prepared myself for this amendment to Article 4. I understand, and I ask Minister Selakovic to correct me if I have made a mistake in some understanding, to propose Article 4. The Law on Public Registration is the answer of Mr. Minister in one good part and to the demands of a lawyer. Mr Selakovic suggested adding a new position of 6 to Article 83 following Article 5, which is this purely for the sake of one precision in our dialogue, contracts and other legal transactions at the disposal of the immobilities of the commercially competent persons, to be concluded in the form of a public notary or in writing, which is certified by the public notary, in accordance with the regulations governing the certification of the non-public document and writing in brackets of the solemnisation. I understand that the lawyers, whose demands were to respond to one good part of Mr Selakovic, claim that this proposal is unacceptable to them, and not only that lawyers claim that it is unacceptable, but that, as I understand it, Mr Selakovic, they are seeking your resignation. If I understand, not only do lawyers ask for your resignation for this, but also the Anti-Corruption Agency says that you have been unwittingly working, and we, Zoran Zivkovic and I, also consider, on the basis of our principle of ethics, responsibility, that for one bad work should bear some consequences, in this case resignation. What happened, Mr. Selakovic, assuming I understood this whole stream? It happened that colleagues Stefanovic, Martinovic and Bozovic proposed that Article 6 of this Law on Public Registration do not read as you suggested, but suggested the following text: "Contracts and other legal transactions available to the immobilities of persons in a commercial capacity are concluded in writing, either in the form of non-public documents with the signatures of the parties certified by the public notary, and legalisation is in the brackets, or in the form of non-public documents, which are certified by the public notary, entangled, and that the public notary draws up a special public note act, which is added to the private correction and makes its integral part in the brackets of the soloisation. What happened? I understood that, Mr. Selakovic, you refused, so I read in these papers, this proposal from our three colleagues, and then I understood that a representative of the Chamber of Public Records for this kind of action in one performance announced that you also deserved the Order for your actions, Mr. Minister. Then I wondered what the medal was for? How come now, suddenly, in a situation of blocking an important branch in our system, we have an initiative here to get you an order and then I came...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13120	I've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13121	You spent a minute and a half, so you were given another three minutes and 30 seconds. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: I think it is a mistake, but okay. You made a mistake because you discussed an amendment that you did not want to discuss. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Mr Dejan Chapo. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE IMPLEMENTATION LAW You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Neđo Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanović, Vesna Martinović and Balša Bozovic, as well as the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13122	Given that I have already said, when I spoke about the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Records, there is no need to talk about other amendments, because they have the same goal and the same motivation. Mr Minister, all the reasons presented in relation to the previous amendment, which relates to the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration, are entirely identical with the motivations and reasons relating to the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport of immovableity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13123	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13124	As I have said in the previous amendment, I call on you to reconsider the possibility that legal transactions, which are of a bonding nature, which fall within the domain of private law, are not conditioned by the making of a public record, but that it is quite enough to achieve legal certainty and protection of the participants of legal work, that the signatures of the contractors are certified by the public notary or that, if the contractors so require, the contract contained is certified, selemnized, but that you do not condition them that they have to go to correct, that their private affairs become public executive documents. In addition, in the section relating to the obligation of the public notary to provide the court with a certified copy of the contract, the formulation you used is the time limit ‘now’. I think it can be a bad thing, because it's not a precise enough time limit for what is "now". It's for someone right now, and for someone as soon as I have time. I suggested that it be a 10-day term, but I see you didn't adopt it. Also, I think it is important to make it possible, for the sake of the legal certainty to which everyone is called during today's debate, the right to take into account the specific records of the immobility contract conducted by the courts for all interested persons, as this prevents the conclusion of the contract and the possibility of certain suspicious actions. I proposed that those contracts that were overly fulfilled be similar for the book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13125	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic jointly submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13126	Thank you. In this case, the amendment concerns statements of denial, which citizens can give up and which deny property rights in favour of the Republic of Serbia. For me, all the absurdity of prescribing the obligation of a public notary record or mandatory soloisation is just looking here, where a citizen, for some reason, wants to give up property rights on immovable property and not only what he wants and wants to do, but also has to pay for the making of a public record. You will agree that this is absurd and incorrect, especially if it is borne in mind that citizens do not give up their right of property every day for the benefit of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13127	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Article 5 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure were submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13128	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-05-0.u13129	Thank you. So, due to the record, the minister has adopted this amendment to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed the debate on the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly under which the President of the National Assembly may set a vote day on a proposal for a law to be taken immediately after the finalisation of the draft law. In accordance with this provision, I set out on Wednesday, 5 November 2014, starting at 13 am and 50 minutes as Voting Day on the first two points of the agenda of this session, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport of Immobility Act. Let's wait two, three minutes. Dear People's MPs, we continue our work by deciding on the 1st and 2nd item of the agenda, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Records and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport of Immobility. In order to be able to approach the vote, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 148 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, against – three abstentions – there are no MPs who have not voted, of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 153, of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – one, abstention – voted 157 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 154 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandar Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 154 of the 158 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 137 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Mr Dejan Chapoo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 161 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Mr Dejan Chapoo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted for 164 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since he's a 6. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and in accordance with Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am voting on a proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – none of the abstentions – did not vote one of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. Since we have come to the conclusion of the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – two, abstentions – there are no votes, two out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS OF IMPLEMENTATION Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the transport of immovableity, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – 2 abstentions – there are no, two out of the 165 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 5, which, on the basis of Article 157(6) of the Treaty, has become an amendment to Article 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 135 of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I beg the messengers only quieter, I make mistakes because I hear what you're saying, just a little bit, we'll be done now. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one, with abstentions, voted 138 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since he's a 6. The bill provides for this law to enter into force on the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and in accordance with Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am voting on a proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – two abstentions – there are no votes, three of the 167 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of immovableity, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164 against – two abstentions – there is no vote, one of the 167 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Immobility Transport Act. Today's work is over. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 115 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
