ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12290	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists when the agenda is established if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Miljana Nikolic, Momo Colaković, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Ivana Dinic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, exceptionally, for Monday, so beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda and the proposal to merge the debate. A group of 199 MPs proposed that the draft law amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 October 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted 10 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 199 MPs proposed that the draft Law amending the Public Prosecutor's Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 October 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 127 MPs proposed that the draft Law amending the Law on Legalisation of Objects, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 October 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 10 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 3 July 2014. Does the MP, Professor Dusan Milisavljevic, want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 135 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 2(2). 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office and a Law amending the Law on the Legalisation of Objects (points 1, 2 and 3 of the proposed agenda); Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Trade in Arms and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on Exchange and Mutual Protection of Secret Information; List of Candidates for the President of the Commission for the Protection of Competition submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Trade, Tourism and Energy of the National Assembly and the Proposal for a Decision amending the composition of the Parliamentary Committee for the Stabilisation and Association of the National Assembly. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – 11, the abstentions – there are no, four of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one, with abstention – three, voted 11 out of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges, 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Public Prosecutor's Law, 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Legalisation of Objects, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the arms trade treaty, 5. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, 6. List of candidates for the President of the Competition Protection Commission, 7. A list of candidates for members of the Competition Protection Council, 8 / 8 Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on proposals for the agenda under points 1, 2 and 3 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12291	I'm reporting for discussion as authorized in front of the group. I'm a little early.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12292	Wrong, we haven't gotten there yet. Thank you. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law and amending the Law on Judges, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office and Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Legalisation of Objects. Do the proposing representatives, MPs Biljana Pantic Pilja and Katarina Rakic want a word? The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12293	Thank you, President. Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased that 199 MPs supported the draft Law amending the Law on Public Prosecutors and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges. I hope that in the voting day we will have a full consensus, i.e. that all 250 MPs will support these laws. The amendments to these laws deserve an initiative jointly submitted by the president of the VSS, the president of the State Council of the Prosecutors, the minister of justice, the president of the Serbian Judges' Association, the president of the Association of Public Prosecutors and deputy Serbian Public Prosecutors. This is an initiative submitted by the most professional people in the field of justice, the most popular people in the profession, and it is up to us, I think, to just support this initiative. In 2010, the Advisory Council of European Judges adopted the basic principles of the court, the Magna Card of Judges, which stipulates that independence of the court is guaranteed by appointment to the age limit. The UN also adopted the basic principles of independence of the judiciary in 1985, which are predicted that judges cannot be removed until they are under the age required for compulsory retirement or their term of office expires. These laws that are before us today provide for the public prosecutor and the judge to cease his post when he turns 65 and deletes a provision that stipulates that he ceases his post when he turns 40. These changes will not force the judges and prosecutors to retire when their labour force is fully operational, when they are the most recent. As early as in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, we had that the Supreme Court judges retired at 70 years of age. Here's an opportunity for the profession that has also submitted this initiative and for the Ministry of Justice to consider that judges of the VCC, as the highest instance, are retired at 70 years of age, because these are the most judges who work in the highest instance of the court. As for amending the law contained in the draft law on the public prosecutor's office, where the prosecutor is expected to establish a working relationship for an indefinite period of time if he passes justice. I believe this promotes the principle of equality. The Law on the Regulation of Courts to Article 66 provides for a judicial intern to establish a working relationship for an indefinite period of time at the place of a judicial assistant if he is to pass justice with a distinction. This is how judges' assistants and prosecutors will equalize themselves. For what reason would the prosecutor be in an unfavourable position with regard to a judicial intern? Those who passed the judicial exam know what the exam is and the president of the National Assembly knows how difficult the judicial exam is. The judicial exam consists of a written and oral part. Seven oral exams should be awarded and a written summary of the verdict. A very small number of people pass all seven honour tests. Such five have been in Serbia's territory for the past three years and almost no one has established a working relationship in the prosecution. I think there's a reason to keep the most professional, the most persistent and the most determined in the prosecution. As there is a legal provision to keep them in court, because they tried their best, they passed seven exams in one day. They got a medal that's hard to get. For this reason, I believe that these changes give young people wind in the back, the ability to establish a working relationship and contribute to the profession. I'm going to point out again that there is an agreement of the profession on all these issues, all the professional associations, the Ministry of Justice. It's up to us to help the profession and give everybody support in the voting day for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12294	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12295	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendments to the law on legalisation that we propose relate practically to the change of one position in Article 23. Legalization law. In the light of the current provision of that member, all those who have applied for legalisation should, by the first of November, have all their necessary documents delivered. If they do not, the competent authority will, under the law, have to reject their demands even though they may have been able to legalise their facilities. In order to avoid such a situation, we propose amendments to this law and I want to stress, we want to propose a change in the deadline within which citizens need to submit the necessary documentation to supplement their already submitted requirements. So, I want to stress that this is not a new deadline for legalization. The need for a change like this is seen in Serbia as having submitted 800,000 legalisation applications, and only one small part has been granted permission. I'll set an example for Belgrade. Since the entry into force of the Law on Legalisation, 240 thousand legalisation requirements have been submitted in Belgrade, only something close to 7,000 facilities has been legalized. What about the others? Should we tear them down? Of course not. The position of the Serbian government and the construction ministry is to legalise everything that is possible and legalised. However, the example of legalisation in Serbia is just one example of how things are seriously implemented within a year, so that in a year, not all the problems that have accumulated behind us can be solved. Last year, when we passed this law, we told the citizens of Serbia, more precisely, we promised the citizens of Serbia that we would do what we really are obliged to do as Members of the public, that we would follow the application of this law and that we would change it in walking, or harmonize it with the needs of citizens. I received information from the competent ministry that within the time limit prescribed by the Law on Legalisation, the competent authorities have issued to the citizens information on what is necessary to deliver in order to supplement their legalisation case. However, in these years, we have seen that this is not enough time for citizens, that a year was not enough for citizens to complete their cases and although last year, while we were now passing the Law on Legalisation, we felt that the documentation prescribed by that law was indeed something minimal that was needed to legalise the objects. It's just, in practice, it didn't work out like that. Citizens continue to have a very complicated procedure, citizens still have a major problem with providing evidence of property still all the documentation they have to deliver. So it certainly represents another difficult environment for citizens. Certainly, the issue of property and the price of legalisation is something that perhaps in the coming period we should consider changing. This solution that we are proposing today, we are certainly only proposing as a temporary solution, because in the construction ministry it is a new, a whole new legal act, a regulation that will make this area even simpler and allow citizens to legalise their facilities in one simpler way. So they don't get into a situation where their deadline expires on November 1st and the citizens start getting notices that their facilities may be torn down, so in a few months to re-invite citizens to legalisation, we are now acting as one responsible group of MPs, as the responsible government that wants to overcome that vacuum. This isn't something that hasn't happened in the past. In the past decade and a half, there have been more situations when citizens were called on to legalize, so the laws were in conflict with each other. As we know, I will remind you once again, there are a million and 300 illegal objects in Serbia. I will only remind you that the first call to legalization of the facilities was in 2003, when the Law on Planning and Construction entered into force. The law has been changed and we have experienced new calls for legalisation in 2006, and then again in 2009, so that the Constitutional Court of 2011 would break the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction as unconstitutional, because at the same time as the law was in force in 2003 a Criminal Law was adopted, which says that construction without a building permit was a criminal offence. So, over this entire period of 12 years and longer, we had two laws in force, one by which we could punish people who were building without permission, and the other by which they invited people to legalization, and it happened that only illegal construction was growing for that period and that the number of objects increased. The Law on Planning and Construction, which is unfortunately still in force today, I personally consider it to be one of the most complicated procedures and one of the worst laws ever written. Under that law, on average, you need to spend 17 months in various services to get permission. Here, for example, in order to get only one approval for construction, according to the still valid Law on Planning and Construction, you have to get approval from many city institutions, including: Katastar immovableity, Directorate for City Building Land, Construction Inspectorate, Urbanist Institute, Department for Urbanism, all public enterprises, EPS, plumbing, gas pipeline, Telecom, Toplan, all for one approval only. Not to name planners, designers and contractors. Also, not to mention all the corruption and all the things that citizens face on a variety of counters. I am personally looking forward to the new Law on Planning and Construction, which was in public debate, which was before the competent assembly committee in August of this year. It is a law that will certainly simplify the procedure and introduce a new institution – offices for quick response. It's simple, we'll have one counter and the citizens won't walk anymore, they'll walk the subject and on that counter where we submitted the request, that's where we'll get our license. Last year when we passed the Law on Legalization we knew that it was certainly not the best solution, because simply, when you do things backwards, the best solution doesn't exist. We've chosen the least bad solution. Of course, anyone who is seriously caught in solving this problem cannot come out as a winner can certainly not find one solution that will suit all citizens. But what is very important is to point out that in Serbia, illegal construction has been stopped, that Serbian citizens have started to behave responsibly, that they know they shouldn't build the way they want to build wherever they want to. Also, the readiness of municipal administrations and construction inspections was shown to prevent illegal construction in the root, which has happened before anyway. Out of all the above, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to invite you to support these amendments to the law in the voting day, in order to allow the citizens of Serbia to finish the job by the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12296	Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12297	Madam President, I can say that the Committee unanimously supported amendments and amendments to the Law on Judges and Proposal for Amendments and additions to the Law on Public Prosecutors. I wouldn't explain much, my colleague Pilya has said enough about what the reasons are and what led 199 MPs to go to the National Assembly with a proposal for these amendments to these two laws. I'd say just one thing, which is that we need to protect the holders of judicial and public prosecutorial functions who are 40 years old, or they're going to get 40 years of employment or insurance, and they don't have 65 years of life. It's a very small number of public prosecutorial and judicial officials. It's about people who are very early, right after graduation of college, and the college ended up on a regular basis, as soon as they reached a 40-year-old insurance internship 65 years ago, that means that the college ended at 22 or 23 years in the regular period, and should be allowed to, given their knowledge, experience and expertise, to stay, to be able to work and to be the bearers of public and judicial functions until the age of 65. It's a recommendation from other bodies and organizations, as you've heard from your colleague, Pilje. For this reason, the Committee has accepted these amendments and complemented these two laws and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt them. Madam President, if you'll excuse me, I would use this time, just one more minute, to say, as deputy president of the JS parliamentary group, that the JS parliamentary group, in order not to re-apply, will support both these two laws, as well as the Law on Legalisation, because we think it would be good to give another six-month term to all those people who haven't been able to reach certain documentation within a year to legalize their facilities. In this way we will help them and local self - administrations to bring the job to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12298	Thank you. Before we move on to the list of speakers, let's confirm the mandate of the new MP. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the RIK on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Ivan Jovanovic, elected from the election list "With the Democratic Party for Democratic Serbia". On the basis of the decision of the RIK, the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, the National Assembly and, as appropriate, Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Ivan Jovanovic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. Dear People's MP, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Let me wish you a joint successful work in the current term of office. We are now moving on to the discussion of the president and representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12299	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, today we have two laws in the field of justice that are another important step in reforming our judicial system and harmonising with European practice and European recommendations. We are witnessing that the process of European integration is very complicated and extensive and that it is necessary to very fundamentally approach the reforms of all segments of our society. The experience of other countries, which and the lessons given by the EU and which it has drawn from the negotiation process with other countries, require that in chapter 23-24 dealing with judicial and fundamental rights, i.e. justice, freedom and security, and in this fight against corruption, they first open and close the last. The amendments to the Law on Judges suggest avoiding discrimination against other citizens of Serbia, based on age, because the age limit for pensioners that applies to all citizens does not apply to judges. With the relevant legal solutions we entered into one illogicality she is next. Judges who completed college in time and before the deadline and immediately established a working relationship, with a full-time 40-year job, are subject to retirement, while those judges who have studied longer and made breaks, remain in Serbia's judicial system up to 65 years of age, regardless of whether they will have 40 years of training. That's one of the main reasons why we should support this bill. The reason more is the fact that recently the Constitutional Court of Serbia, the Supreme Court of Cassation, as well as the Society of Judges have requested an assessment of the constitutionality of this law, because they believe that prescribing the insurance standings as the basis for the termination of judicial office and the reason for retirement is contrary to the Constitution and to the general rules of international law. The draft law on public prosecutors follows the amendments to the draft law on judges and provides for the same provisions. Given that the public prosecutors were in the same situation, the proposal brings another amendment concerning the prosecutor's interns. I believe that the change is good, because the position of judge and prosecutor's interns is now equating and allowing that prosecutor who passed the judicial exam with the highest assessment to be immediately obtained and the right to establish a working relationship on indefinite time in the prosecution. In this way, young trainees who are in the learning process are motivated and are given a prize for quality acquired knowledge as well as for mastering the necessary skills. How's the region? The legislation of neighbouring countries and individual European states does not contain a provision similar to that laid down in the Law on Judges, which stipulates that judges are retired by law when they are 40 years old. So in Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary, Macedonia and there, judges can work until they are 65 years old. It is interesting that Hungary has tried to amend its laws and lower the age of judges, prosecutors and notaries to retire from 70 to 62. However, the European Court of Justice has made a decision that Hungary has in this way violated its obligations under the EU directive. It is clear that this government is not only the goal of EU membership, but of a clear and very serious intention to reform a complete state system. Therefore, negotiations with the EU must represent all of us the driving force of the internal reforms that citizens need. Reforms in the judiciary are being carried out for citizens to live in a modern and orderly state. We must seek a reformed judiciary in which the processes will last shorter, and justice will be more accessible to the citizens. I would like to say that in 2013, by adopting two action plans for judicial reform and the fight against corruption, the state has indeed established a quality environment for the work of judges and prosecutors and for the fight against corruption. As part of the wider story of judicial reform, it will last for a long time, I want to draw attention to the current problem of the irregular representation of Bosniaks as part of the judicial and prosecutorial bodies in Novi Pazar, but also in other Sandzak cities where Bosniaks traditionally live in a larger number. I must remind myself that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, more precisely Article 77 in the position of 1 I guarantee to members of the national minorities that they participate and manage in public affairs. Also, Article 46(2). The Law on Judges concerning what we are talking about today prescribed that when selecting and proposing for the selection of judges, the national composition of the population and the appropriate representation of members of national minorities and the knowledge of professional and legal terminology in the language of the national minority are taken into account. The same has been confirmed in Article 82 in paragraph 5. The public prosecutor's law where it is prescribed that election and proposal for the election of public prosecutors should also take into account the representation of the national population, i.e. the minority, i.e. members of national minorities. This is also confirmed by conventions to protect the national minorities of the Council of Europe. Unfortunately, we and in the field, first of all in Novi Pazar, have one devastating picture and something that is not good for the overall picture of Serbia or this government. Namely, 20 judges were employed in the New Pazar basic court, consisting of a judicial unit in Tutin, of which 26 judges were scheduled, and only eight of them were Bosniaks. The main public prosecutor's office in Novi Pazar numbers seven carriers, of which are three Bosniak nationalities. The more public prosecutor's office in Novi Pazar numbers six public prosecutor's offices, of which there are only two Bosniak nationalities. I will remind you that some 160,000 residents live in the territory over which they have the authority of this judicial and prosecutorial institution, about 80% of which is Bosniak nationality. Given the information I have presented, I would like to call on the Ministry and the Government to use this judicial reform within our jurisdiction and to remove this long-standing deficit. I believe that the ministry whose head is the minister who comes right from my region and who I believe recognizes this neural point, the neural question, and who recognizes the importance of it will recognise the importance and importance of it and how important it is to form confidence not only of the Bosniaks, but of all the Sandzak citizens in the republican institutions. The public prosecutor's office and judges are the mirrors of a state. I must say that, at the very least, we have a modest opinion of the prosecution's work in Novi Pazar so far, and I must suggest that as soon as possible, structural and personal changes are made. It's not only a problem in national representation, but also in ignorance, incompetence, but also corruption. This should pay particular attention to the overall authority and integrity of the designated persons in these functions. They are the state of Serbia and New Pazar, both in Sombor and Nis, and in Presevo, and in all other parts of our common state. It is necessary to insist on capable, honorable, respectable, family people from local backgrounds, because they know best the mentality and environments in which they live and where they are born. That's especially true of the D.A.'s office. Experience has shown that the best results in the prosecution's work, especially in multiethnic areas, have people from these places, is also in Novi Pazar. What is certainly looking forward to is indeed the sincere desire of the minister of justice to enter a serious reform of the judiciary, even though it has a number of obstacles, not basic strikes, or attacks at a personal level. We truly appreciate his desire and determination and support this government in choosing for a fairer and better legal system and the rule of law which is certainly the most necessary condition for any serious development of our country. The strongest link connecting SDP and SNS is certainly an unfettered fight against corruption and thieving that has led our country to the limit of survival. An honest attitude towards its citizens as well as a special concern for the poorest part of our society, building a rule of law and rule of law is our common imperative. Sharing responsibilities and obligations is the best way to achieve our common goal, more developed, fairer and more prosperous Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12300	Thank you. The word is Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12301	Thank you, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have today, and I will only be limited to the draft law amending the Law on Judges, as well as to the amendment of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, so another amendment to the laws relating to our country's judicial system, essentially one amendment to the Law on Judges and essentially two amendments to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. Of course, these proposed amendments and additions, both the Law on Judges and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, appear on the one hand to bring the legal system into line and, in that sense, that now, as a mandatory reason for the termination of the judicial or prosecutorial functions, the completion of certain years of life, regardless of the insurance period, is actually foreseen. The second part of the amendments contained above all in the Law on Public Prosecutors, i.e. its amendments, relate to what is present, is this motivational element, so as to motivate the prosecution trainees to pass the judicial exam after the completed traineeship of the preparation as best possible, means that they are motivated to work as best as possible and to learn to pass the judicial exam themselves with a mark, and to provide them with a guarantee that, if they meet that criterion in that sense, and the criterion is clearly and taxively listed by this bill, that they are given a guarantee of employment. In the first case, which relates to the fact that public prosecutors and judges necessarily cease to function in the event of a 65-year delay, regardless of the other conditions, I must point out that such an urgency in our legislation has been observed, it seems to me, late and late to late, although in our system there has been a long time, i.e. the possibility of both judges and prosecutors who have completed over 65 years of life, extending their functions to perform, i.e. the completion of work on certain subjects, reality, of course, in Serbia has also shown a great possibility of abuse on this particular issue, and such an opportunity has been necessary to completely abolish, which is done by such a proposed change. The second part of the proposal, as I have already stated, concerns the amendment of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, concerns this very motivational element, to be as effective as possible, as possible when preparing and passing the judicial exam itself, but also later, and, of course, in their work, and that it is precisely because of their good work and willingness as well as because of the passing of the exams with the ability to guarantee admission to a permanent working relationship, which is in mind and our situation in the economy, certainly the greatest reward for such staff, and such staff are certainly the best and most professional, of course later, the choice for the judge, i.e. with a later choice for the prosecutor or vice-president. This is certainly rounding up what is the basis of every judicial system, which is the continuity and independence of judicial and prosecutorial personnel in terms of their own destiny, the ideal is certainly a good certainty for good work and vice versa for poor work. However, now that we have to round up the basics of this normative matter in this field, I don't think we can stop here, but we need to move a step further into judicial reform and in this field, in which we seem to have lazy a lot, and that's exactly the most important segment we've completely ignored. In fact, the eternal wisdom is that perfection is hidden in detail. It's nothing new, and I think it's common knowledge. If we look at the state of justice now in those countries, which countries we want to look at, then we will notice that the judicial system in them is rounded up, not only on basic laws that regulate that matter, but also on a number of, absolutely all legal acts that regulate someone's conduct at all, but also more importantly, the system of choice of judges themselves, but also on the choice of prosecutors. In every country, the judiciary has always sought to find that one good balance, a good balance between two opposing judicial professions. On the one hand, we have a request for the continuity of the judge's and the prosecution's functions, because it only guarantees an independent court and an independent prosecutor's office, and on the other hand it provides and actually enables individuals to realise the courage of the individual, precisely in that system to deal with the most difficult concrete judicial tasks, and on the one hand, it is viewed through decision-making, or judgment, that is, the tenacity to detect and prove criminal acts. We have a second request, and this second request, even less important, is those who are rightly referring to the need for the holders of these functions to be objectively and impartially controlled in making their calls. The problem that, of course, arises and is present in our judiciary forever, we have never eliminated it, is that control endangers independence, and without it simply, it is again unimaginable to imagine a good judicial system. In the coming years, it must be our task to provide the bearers of judicial functions with the best possible conditions, to provide one, to say, peace in which they will be able to carry out their duties and transfer knowledge and experience from one generation to another, and in order to achieve that we must ensure, it seems to me, and the state of the spirit that we seem to have lost somewhere along the way. I hope that's still ready. In this place, I must point out that regardless of all the shortcomings our country's judicial system had decades ago, this system on the other hand maintained a state of consciousness without which there could be neither a successful state nor a successful judiciary. It was not good in such a judicial system, only to know the matter of law well, and it was not enough to explain the judicial decision well enough to be elected as a judicial holder. It took a lot more than that. It wasn't enough to be the best student and to be the most effective intern because it didn't guarantee you that you would be given a judicial or prosecutorial post afterwards. It took, first of all, for you to be good, and when I say good, I mean a righteous man, and that's to know that you have human ability and to measure what justice is, and what justice is not in a particular case. That's why you don't learn from it in college, these things don't go to law school, they don't even learn in court, they seem to be learning through the process of growing up and growing up. I have to mention here what's true, that it's not a good thing that judge who's finished law school with all tens, if he's in a state of mind-numbing vanity, is also not a good prosecutor who's proven extremely effective in his work, if he's only encouraged by envy in his career. I'll remind you that in the judicial system, it's not just about simple and mere application of the law, but it's about human fate, if you want to end up with, it's about human lives. There is no decision that can be just and can be just, if the fruit of one’s vanity, if the fruit of prejudice, envy, or other related conditions. When we put the problem, just like this, as wide as it seems, it becomes a little bit clear how hard it's actually going to be for us to form a system that weighs well and these criteria when selecting the holders of judicial functions. It is certainly a condition for us to create formal stability of the judicial system to begin, is it, unfortunately, today and in this formal part of it missing? For more than 20 years, however, we as a society have shown for some reason that we are not capable of such a thing. The best legal personnel left us, or when we were inflationed in the '90s, when the judge couldn't even buy bread from the judge's salary, remember those times. Immediately thereafter, political pressure followed and then political appointments and political elections, but also political resolutions by judicial officials. Then we broke up, absolutely everything that has to do with the expertise that we're trying to restore today, and it seems to me that it's going to be extremely difficult for us to rebuild. In all of this, I think we have allowed the change of the economic system itself not to be accompanied by the judicial system. After this state has been stolen for years, or decades, financially, we have remembered now that we are investing in the education of the judiciary, so that we can actually understand a system that should have gone into effect for a long time, and all of course because of the already mentioned economy that is back-permanently collapsed. It seems to me that neither on this plan nor today we are doing well enough and we are not working to the extent that we should work. They're very rare those judges, and they're much rarer, rarer prosecutors and even more rare those judges who can and understand the modern economic and financial system to identify in these same systems the actions that are crime, and represent the actions of the execution of a certain criminal act. I argue responsibly that there are only a few in Serbia at this point, so I will tell a few prosecutors who are able to recognise what is a crime in the stock market business. I claim that there are not many more who in modern economic business can recognize the most difficult forms of violations of laws that prevent economic development. Our prosecutors, of course, will today very persistently protect state property, but for private property, they will not be overly engaged and this is a state of consciousness that they simply consider that state property actually has the status of "holy cows" compared to private property. We need to understand that, of course, it was never the state property that created private property, without it being a crime, but it was exactly the opposite and the exact opposite. It was only and exclusively private property that, with its promise, created state property through an increase in the tax charge and once the state property was destroyed, and we have witnessed that there was a constant destruction of state property here, decades ago, it is easily restored to how large and numerous private property is, and this is not the case in our country today. On the contrary, if private property is destroyed, but the trust or trust of the people in the protected falls into the modern world, that property will violate and leave the borders of the state and move where it will be far more protected, and that move of property inevitably and always monitors people's migration. I believe that from the point of view of our future, the most important thing is to educate the judicial staff and to change their system of consciousness in this regard that I was talking about, is that the protection of private property is also of the greatest importance for the state and society. State property does not pay taxes from which government officials, including judges, live. It just pays for private property. The judicial system must strive to increase it and to fertilise it, if it is a being and state property. When we talk about the EU, the EU is not expensive there some countries and some associations of sovereign states that are discussing something and are discussing something. It is a system that builds all its values precisely on the foundations of private property and does everything to protect it. And that is precisely why the chapter of the judiciary is both the most significant and the most important chapter in accession negotiations. This is also a condition for the entry of foreign investors, since there is no investor whose tax rates will interest more than the efficiency of the judicial system in protecting its property. On the contrary, it seems to me that my colleagues coming from the judiciary can testify, that we have declared and declared the emergency proceedings, they, of course, are working disputes, family disputes, etc., but no dispute relating to the protection of private property or at least to the protection of domestic and foreign investment has been declared an emergency. It's a very interesting fact, and it's simply not sustainable if we really can't and we don't want to develop economically, and without developing in that sense, it seems to me that the judiciary can't have a perspective. In all of this, we should add that it seems to me, and that we have ignored the importance of the administrative court, which is overloaded by the number of cases that are in its decision, which is precisely the court that has been preceding all other courts. It is he who, especially the local one, has to make his decisions to do his job, because all of us will admit from stealing, say, cables, or, say, stealing tiny inventory, the cover of chess, to every investor who comes into this country is an important effective application of the rules by the state administration and local self-government, and that is exactly where the administrative court is most called to act, but we, for some reason, have put his work into the seal of the Serbian legal system and that for decades and systematically. On the other hand, we are also witnessing numerous, or accumulated cases in front of second-degree administrative bodies, some of which have been waiting for two or more years to be resolved, and the efficiency of the judicial system is directly dependent on the effective decision-making of the authorities in the state administration. These are all issues that await a solution not only to this government, but also to the future government, because I think it takes us a few years to solve these issues, I won't go too far if I say a few decades. At the very end, of course, we'll be able to speak in particular. I have submitted to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, and one amendment, in fact, to which I have specified the proposal and Article 3 of this proposal of the Law, where Article 123(2) states that the words "priorities to reception" are changed. I believe that this formulation is not entirely accurate, and of course the amendment is submitted for reasons where you want to contribute to some text of the law, not to reverse it or because you are unemployed and you have nothing to do and you write amendments. But, of course, when the debate on details is held, I will explain in more detail why I do not consider such a solution to be good, but I believe that this Article 3 must be more precisely formulated for reasons, because according to the proposed formulation, it would simply remain doubtful of our intention, in the intention of Members of Parliament just as well as the signatories of these proposals, whether or not every prosecutor who has passed the judicial exam can be accepted with distinction in a working relationship, and whether the public prosecutor's office has a full number of staff and that number of staff that are provided for in Articles 117 and 2 respectively. Public prosecutor's law or to be accepted only in those cases where there is a job, which is provided for in this act. I have made this proposal today on the Committee on Justice, and I absolutely believe that any amendment that will complete or define such a provision of the law, I will, of course, support, but on all this in the debate in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12302	Thank you. The word is Vesna Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12303	Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I can say at the very beginning that it is very commendable when the authorising officer says that the initiative to amend the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors came from the initiative of prominent legal experts, and I would agree with that, with the expectation that respect for prominent legal professionals and legal professions is respected in some other cases, such as the Law on Public Notes, Transport of Immobilities and other regulations, which are due to the assessment of exactly the same or other prominent legal experts in contrast to the Constitution and other laws of Serbia, and which are the reason for the multi-week suspension of the work of lawyers in Serbia, which contributes to the absolute suspension of legal life in courts and other state bodies. But aside from this commendation, I must point out a few remarks. The first concerns a principle of objections relating to the adoption of an emergency procedure law. Since this Assembly was established several months ago, it has become a rule that laws are passed by emergency procedure. Article 167. The Rules of Procedure allow the possibility, of course, of passing laws in an urgent manner, but only exceptionally so as to impose laws governing issues arising from circumstances that could not be foreseen, and not the adoption of laws would cause adverse consequences to the lives and health of people or the safety of the country. Therefore, the laws are only adopted in an emergency procedure as an exception, not as a rule. This assembly of the Assembly has so many times passed laws on an urgent procedure that, in fact, the passing of laws by emergency procedure has become a rule, and the exception is that laws are passed in a regular procedure. I think this is a bad way of passing laws because MPs are denied the timely delivery of material, that they study it seriously, that they prepare amendments, that they consult with citizens, associations and all those persons to whom the laws in the procedure and apply, which certainly further reduces the quality of the proposed laws and laws that are ultimately adopted in the assembly procedure. When the exception turns into a rule, then the rule is no longer a rule but becomes an exception, and when rules are not respected in this way, then either the rules need to be changed or sanctioned by their disrespect. As a result, a very bad message is being sent, that the National Assembly does not respect the Rules of Procedure in practice as an act itself. In an explanation of the proposed amendments to the Law on Judges and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, you say an urgent procedure is necessary in order to fulfil the international obligations arising from the membership of the Republic of Serbia in the UN and the Council of Europe. However, membership does not in itself create such obligations, but you do not state in an explanation what act such obligations are prescribed and which act provides for such a period which is why we are now passing these laws by emergency procedure. To make the absurdity bigger, and only the reasoning is contradictory, because you first say that the obligations of amending the law stem from the membership of the Republic of Serbia to the UN and the Council of Europe, and then, in the Declaration of Consistency with EU rules, you literally say the following - there are no relevant EU rules to ensure the compliance of the proposed amendments to the law, since the change in question is not relevant from the point of view of EU law. I am now asking you what part of the argument I am now to believe, is the part where you say we have obligations arising from membership in the Council of Europe or the part that says that what we are doing today is not relevant at all from the point of view of EU law? In the proposed amendments to the Law on Legalisation, the situation with reasons of urgency is, in my opinion, even worse. You stated here that urgency is necessary because the prescribed deadline expires on 1 November 2014 and that this is now the reason why the amendment of the Law on Legalisation is adopted by emergency procedure. I wonder what you couldn't predict in this case? Is it really possible that, regardless of the existence of the calendar, it was uncertain for you that this 1st of November 2014 will take place? If it could have been predicted, and it could have been, I wonder what it couldn't have been predicted, and why couldn't this circumstance that couldn't have been time-consumed have been explained? The fact that the deadline expires on 1 November is not an unpredictable circumstance, that was to be expected. It is a similar situation with the effect of the proposed laws. So, Article 196. The constitution says the laws enter into force on the eighth day from the day of their publication, and they can enter before, but only if there are particularly justified reasons for that. What are the reasons here? When you say that on November 1st, the deadline has been set and that the law should not only be passed by emergency procedure, but it should come into effect earlier so that a legal vacuum does not arise, you practically acknowledge your own negligence and impunity and confirm that you have waited for the last minute to run into the photofinish with the proposed amendment of the law in the Assembly. Neglect and impeccableness of the motionor or any other similar reason is not a valid reason for the exceptional application of this rule or the possibility that the Constitution allows the law to enter into force even before the eighth day of its publication. You and this exception have turned into a rule, and this certainly does not contribute to legal certainty or respect for the country's constitutionality and legality. On this occasion, I must also refer to the reasons for the proposed laws. Technically and technically, the arguments contain less all those parts that provide for uniform methodological rules for the making of regulations, but none of the proposed laws in the part concerning the reasons for the regulation does not contain an analysis of the current situation or the objectives you wish to achieve the proposed regulations. From reason we don't see what problems we're actually solving the proposed laws. For example, when we talk about the Law on Legalisation, since it is only proposed to amend, or extend the deadline, does this mean that we should conclude that only a rock problem in this legalisation procedure is? We all know that rock is not in itself a problem. He may be one of the problems, but he's not the only problem. And the authorised legislator, my esteemed colleague, has announced an amendment to the rules which, in some different, simpler and faster way, will regulate the issue of legalization, which means that you are aware that the deadline here is not the only problem, but if that is the case, then why, since we're changing this law, we haven't changed the other segments regarding legalisation? I believe you've been working on an analysis of the legalization process itself, and I'm sure you know that the legalization process itself is the problem. Practice clearly says the procedure is a problem, but you still haven't taken advantage of the opportunity to correct the part of the legalization process itself in terms of its simplification and acceleration. Have you perhaps done an analysis of how difficult the legalization process is for unsustainable and unreliable immovable records? Have you been working on, perhaps, an analysis of how inefficient the immovableity cadastre services are? Why didn't you think about it when you proposed these changes? If you're gonna wait and if we're all gonna wait together to pass a new law, we're wasting our time. Have you perhaps consulted the projectors, and asked them what all the problems they have with the development of projects executed as the conditions of one of the legalization conditions? Have you checked how much and how in practice the amount of compensation for the construction land is determined? Have you determined and please, if it is, since you're nodding your head, all of you, to tell me what the percentage of the fee is from the citizens? All these questions... (The People's MP Vuceta Toskovic throws out of place. ) If you have anything to say, be kind enough to sign in and talk to me civilizedly, not by throwing it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12304	Please allow the MP to complete her presentation. Here you go, Mrs. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12305	We're not in a bar, we're not in a bookie where they're plowing bets. We believe or not, in the National Assembly. So all these issues are key to the legalisation process and represent a fundamental problem that will not be resolved on its own by just extending the deadline. If there are no reasons why the previously prescribed deadline that you, or your Government, are not the previous regime, as you very often like to say, have brought and established, too ambitiously obvious, therefore, if you have not established the reasons for not respecting that previously prescribed deadline, you can extend this deadline by not six months, for a hundred years, but legalisation does not, in that case, if only the problem of the deadline is observed in isolation, will not accelerate. Speaking of deadlines, I ask you very specifically – how in Article 22(3). You leave the legalization law in force and remain a provision which retains a period of one year and that is already in the next article, i.e. 23, you're extending that same deadline to one and a half years? I'm asking you now -- what deadline actually applies? Is a one-year term or a one-year period and six-month period valid, and is this how confusing changes will facilitate the legalisation process or not? I don't think so. Now, a truly well-intentioned, chronic extension of deadlines, which cannot only be attributed to the current government, is something that has existed in Serbia decades ago, creates one impression of very serious unseriousness. So, when deadlines are constantly extended, and especially when we talk about legalisation, be sure that no one will take it seriously now, for example, the deadline set today, and we will have that citizens expect that deadline, if they fail to meet their requirement within the current deadline, sometimes again. Employees working in legalisation will expect the same thing, and even when the tabloids add speculation about possible personal changes in ministries, then you have one complete picture of chaos, where it is only the expectation that some deadline will be extended, for as long as it is not important, but it is important that the current period should not be respected. That's why I think it's really bad. For the end, I have to share another important dilemma about legalization again. In Article 21. The Law on Legalisation prescribed what is considered evidence of resolved property-legal relations on land and as valid evidence is provided by inter alia evidence of a purchase contract and a co-investment and construction contract approved by the competent court. I'm asking you if you know, and I know you do, that over these contracts are no longer in the jurisdiction of the courts, but in the public records? Now I'm wondering if, in particular, it's about one failure that's caused by the hill - from the valley, prepared changes or something else. In any case, whatever mediates it, this kind of situation with regard to the purchase of immovable property contracts cannot remain, because if one law says that these contracts are certified by the competent court, and the other law says that it can only be done in the form of public-booking documents, then the owner of the immovable property is brought into one matte situation that he doesn't really know what he has to do, who he has to address and what kind of contract he's supposed to make, in order to complete the legalisation documentation. There is also confusion with a civil servant working in the legalisation process, because when a court-confirmed contract is adopted, he does not know whether it is in accordance with the applicable laws or not. Therefore, when these laws are already proposed by an urgent procedure and these deadlines are invariably extended for what, I ask you to spend a little time at that speed and reading the whole law, whose change in terms of deadlines you are looking for, because this is how you put those to whom the law applies and those to which this law should be implemented, that they do not know, practically in this legal confusion, what regulation should apply and for what. Thank you. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12306	Thank you. The word has a national MP Katarina Rakic, as a proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12307	Thank you. When I listen to my previous colleague, I think she's been sleeping over for 15 years or just not communicating with those who were making laws at the time, because there's a lot of objections like this, and the remarks are mostly like that so that I could now repeat everything I've already said. As for the changes we're making, I'll repeat them one more time, bring them as a temporary solution. Are we going to bring them in today, if we brought them in a month ago, the procedure is that we don't put the citizens in the situation that you've been putting them in? As for millions and 300 illegal objects, we did not bring Serbia into such a state that illegal construction flourishes, that we now have to legalize them. As I said before, it's not a simple procedure, it's not a procedure that can be resolved in a year. You didn't settle this procedure with the three laws and with the criminal law that you had at the same time. You say citizens don't believe it. Of course they don't. How many calls did you get? How many years have you issued legalization solutions in 15 years? Yes, we have records, 800,000 cases submitted from last year to this year. How do you think you can finish the job in a year? I repeat, when we passed the law last year, we were aware that the job couldn't be done in a year and that the law would certainly monitor changes and additions, because we're doing the job backwards. We're legalizing something that's already been done, so let's not make plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12308	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja, also as a proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12309	I just wanted to say thank you to my colleague. I understood that she would support laws in the area of justice that are on the agenda today, since her only objection was to the urgency of the procedure. Therefore, I see that there is no fundamental objection to these proposed laws, and I would really not comment on how my colleague's party passed the law in the field of justice and what kind of judicial reform was done to us then and what was done then with the reform of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12310	Thank you. Here you go, but I'm not sure you're entitled to a replica. [[Vesna Martinović, from town: Right to replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12311	I'll be brief, just an explanation. For an esteemed colleague who is an authorised representative of the legislator of the Law amending the Law on Legalisation, if you are already handling the numbers of millions and 300,000 objects that were illegally built, you should have previously asked your colleagues when these objects were illegally built, because more than 90% of these facilities were built during the 1990s. That's what you should've checked and determined before you started making that argument. If you're saying that we, I don't know who we are, but do you think of yourself in some previous period or just us who are here at the MP's club, we haven't been able to do anything for how many years, so doesn't it seem really pretentious, without ammunition, that you're going to do it for the next six months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12312	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The word has been passed by Parliamentarian Katarina Rakic, as the proposing's authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12313	Thank you. I've got the data. In 2003, 700,000 legalisation requirements were filed, 2009 1,400. How come we're not talking about a million-and-a-half, 700,000 demands in 2009, if in 2003, on the first call for legalization, you had as many demands? Let's not comment on the total number, maybe it's legal, I guess by the pastures you've legalized, that's not controversial. Now, at least tell me, when you had two laws from 2003 to 2009, and the Criminal Law sanctioned wild construction, under which the construction of a building without a building permit was a criminal offence and you were able to act under that law, and you had law, more specifically, part of the Law on Planning and Construction, in which legalization was allowed. Let's just talk about that period from 2003 to 2009. Where did 700,000 illegal objects come from, if you had two laws in force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12314	Thank you, Miss Rakic. The word has a representative of the parliamentary group, Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12315	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, in the light of these laws, I am referring to the Law on Judges and Amendments to the Law on Prosecutors, it is said that the proposed amendments are being made because they do not comply with international standards, and as standards, documents adopted in 1985 and 2010. So it took nearly three decades to bring our legal system into line with the standards that are present in all serious democratic societies and countries where there is a rule of law. When we talk about the rule of law, I have to point out, unfortunately, that in the Republic of Serbia there is less and less. That's why I want to make a contribution to establishing the rule of law in our country. In that sense, I will remind everyone that Article 3 is present. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, prescribed the following -- the rule of law is exercised in free and direct elections, constitutional guarantees of human and minority rights, the division of power, independent judicial authority and the obeying of the Constitution and the law. When we look at the judiciary and the prosecution from the aspect of national community representation, we will see that the situation is completely contrary to the principles declared by the Constitution, law and international law. The legislator completely ignored the bad effects and consequences that will negatively affect members of national minorities, especially Bosniaks in Serbia, by applying this law. The proposals for these laws must contain mechanisms to allow minorities to be adequately represented in the judiciary and the prosecution. In the light of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, more precisely Article 77(1), which guarantees the right of national minorities to participate in the management of public affairs and to enter public functions, the position of the 2nd member of the Constitution requires that the national composition of the population and the proper representation of members of national minorities be taken into account by the authorities of the Autonomous Region and local self-government. Article 46(2) The Law on Judges provides that the selection and proposal for the selection of judges shall take into account the national composition of the population, the appropriate representation of members of national minorities and the knowledge of professional legal terminology in the language of national minorities in the official use of the court. Article 82(5) The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office requires that the selection and proposal for the selection of public prosecutors should take into account the national composition of the population, the proper representation of members of national minorities and the knowledge of professional legal terminology in the language of the national minority which is officially used in court. So there is a constitutional and legal framework that guarantees members of national minorities in Serbia adequate participation in the work of judicial authorities. However, the situation on the ground and in practice is quite different. For example, in the New Pazar basic court, consisting of a judicial unit in Tutina, 20 judges were elected out of the scheduled 26 judges, of which only eight Bosniak nationalities are mostly pre-retired. This means that their retirement of the national composition in the body will be in a much worse situation and at the expense of the Bosniaks. The main public prosecutor's office in Novi Pazar numbers seven public prosecutor's office, one district attorney and six deputies, and only three are Bosniak nationalities. More public prosecutor's office in Novi Pazar numbers six public prosecutor's office, one senior public prosecutor and five of his deputies, and only three are Bosniak nationalities. In the primary court in Prijepolje, which consists of a judicial unit in Novi Varoša, seven judges were elected out of the projected judges, none of whom are Bosniak nationality, although according to the results of the latest census of Bosniaks in Prepolje, there are more than 34%. Four judges have been elected in the Priboj basic court, out of seven scheduled judges, one of which is Bosniak nationality. The primary public prosecutor's office in Prijepolje provides for five public prosecutorial functions, one district attorney and four deputies, of which there is only one Bosniak nationality. Therefore, it is evident that in the appointment of judges and public prosecutors, the constitution is severely violated when it comes to the Bosniaks. Those laws and the rules of international law adopted are infringed against members of the Bosniak national community who have been denied the entry into those public functions within the judicial authority, to that extent and to that extent as prescribed by the Constitution, laws and international law. In its third report on the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities in the Republic of Serbia, the Council of Europe Advisory Committee particularly stresses the problem of the lack of presence of Bosniaks and Albanians in the work of judicial authorities: "The advisory committee calls on the authorities in Serbia, all state authorities, to take decisive measures to address the lack of representation of Bosniaks, Albanians and other national minorities in public administration, especially at the state level. Such measures should also be taken in the judiciary, the prosecution, especially when it comes to the Albanian and Bosniak national minorities. “ I expect the competent state authorities in Serbia to finally start solving issues that are of great importance, both for members of the national minorities themselves and for our country on its European path. Especially in the establishment of a rule of law, legal certainty and the rule of law. In this regard, we are at the disposal of all the state authorities and bodies of this highest body, the assembly bodies, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to find the most suitable methods to act preventively, and in this sense I suggest that this Assembly ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to open a final judicial academy in Novi Pazar for the Sandzak region, in Presevo and Bujanovac for an Albanian national minority. At the same time, to bring the national structure into line with the police as soon as possible. We know that in Novi Pazar alone, we have several thousand young people with completed basic studies of social sciences, beginning with rights and others, who would be very happy to accept that they apply to the competition and fill out the seats in both the police and the prosecution, and in the judiciary, and that they must finally be allowed to do so. It's their right. So it is necessary to establish a judicial academy that will allow these young people who have completed basic or master studies to get the opportunity... I'd like to ask the chairman for some attention because it's not very polite while one of the Rules of Procedure is speaking, that others joke and tell jokes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12316	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12317	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to begin by saying thank you to Mr Babic, who offered our MP group on Thursday to sign the proposals of the first two laws we are discussing today, the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors. We, in the end, did not join the other fellow Members of Parliament in the signature, not because we have something against these solutions, but rather asked for some explanations that we could not get within such a short period of time that we were left to plead, and perhaps mostly because these laws entered the procedure by emergency procedure. I think that didn't leave enough time, I want to remind my fellow MPs that it was Thursday and that we started a budget debate on Friday, we discussed here late in the night about amendments, so it just wasn't enough time to consult and see and look at all the aspects of the laws we're discussing today. Also, what I'm saying is that we don't agree with a senseless merger of agenda points that have nothing to do with each other. How bad is this practice, it shows that yesterday we passed a law at the end of the day which one in the Assembly was not spoken of by the legislator, by the MPs in this House. I think it's bad practice, whether the laws are small or large, technical changes or others, to be adopted without any discussion in parliament, that's bad. Let's get in line. We absolutely agree with the need to comply with the Law on Judges and that the restriction that judges with 40 years of law enforcement are going to retire is deleted from our law and we believe that this is useful for our judicial system. We will support that solution. I repeat, what is the urgency of this law? Surely membership in the UN and SE cannot be a reason to pass a law urgently. We have been members of the UN as Serbia since 2006, and if we look at history for many long years, since 2002, it seems to me that we are in the Council of Europe and I don't see how that can be a reason? When a law like this is put in front of MPs, I say, in a jargon, it lacks only a name and a name. This law lacks a name and a last name. So, the name and last name of the people who would come under the influence of this law if we didn't change it immediately. I would ask the promoters to take advantage of their right and the opportunities given to them by the Rules of Procedure and to give us a report by the end of the year exactly how many people this change refers to, or how many people, by the end of the year, if we don't change the law, have to retire by law, and now they won't leave? That we know exactly who it's about. This is not the first time in this term that the Assembly adopts laws that have a name and name. We adopted amendments and amendments to the Law on State Administration at the end of the summer, only so that one man could, in addition to his post and work in a higher education institution, remain the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law. I think it's very bad if this congregation is passing laws that have a name and a name, which don't apply to everything, but because of urgency or something else, they're only being passed for one person. We think it's a bad practice. It's possible I'm wrong, and that's why I'm asking you to allow us by the end of the year to see exactly what number of judges this is and to assure me that this isn't a law written for a person. I don't know what it's called, but that's what it looks like when I read an explanation for the passing of this law by emergency procedure. It's similar with the Public Prosecution Act. We agree with the change and the alignment that provides for the erasure of 40 years of employment as a basis for retirement, but we would like to draw attention to this opportunity to delete the entire article 89, which, according to the Proposer, has been deleted from the Justice Act at some earlier point. The current article in 89 provided the opportunity to extend the working century to the public prosecutor or the deputy public prosecutor for another two years in order to complete the work on certain cases if such a case is brought by the State's larger prosecutors. It won't be a case anymore. So now if we have some prosecutor working on some important cases, and he's 65 years old, he's going to have to retire, whether he's working on an important case. We're just saying that as a fact, nothing more than that. The last amendment to this Law on Public Prosecutor's Office is an amendment that says that the prosecutor, who is being evaluated in the judicial exam, has been given a medal, received in a working relationship for an indefinite period of time, and not as it has so far stood to have the advantage. We had some dilemmas, and we succeeded in some short time, and there was also a colleague, Babic, who helped us to consult that such solutions exist in the court's trainees and is not some precedent that would be made now, but we did give one amendment here that says that this applies to prosecutors who have their entire traineeship working in the prosecutor's office. You know that traineeship can be done either in law or in the judiciary, by working in the administration or even by working in public enterprises or in companies at all. We believe that this possibility of rewarding those best, and that's where we agree, who pass the honour exam, is only for those who do the whole traineeship in the prosecution. It's our amendment, and based on it, whether we accept it or not, we're going to define ourselves to vote on this bill. The last law, which has nothing to do with the previous two, is the Law amending the Law on Legalization of Objects. It is, of course, very simple, extending one deadline that expires on November 1st by another six months, which should allow citizens who have applied for legalisation, and have failed to obtain all the documentation for now, to be given six more months to do so. Then in the debate, I don't know how, it came now to point fingers who was responsible for the number of illegal objects in Serbia. It's about a deadline that practically this same ruling majority adopted a year ago, and then she didn't get a good look at the deadline, that a year wasn't enough. We can now accuse ourselves of who's more guilty of this, but you've set this deadline, and I think you should be prepared to accept the criticism of what you've done wrong then, and you haven't set the deadline properly, and now you're asking that deadline to extend by another six months. We can agree with what is very often the argument of a colleague – and what if this is not adopted? Yeah, what would happen if this wasn't adopted? Maybe it's the only argument we're going to support this bill for, because if this proposed legal solution wasn't passed, a large number of citizens who didn't have time to collect the paperwork would be in trouble. We believe that citizens have enough problems and that the state needs to do everything to make it easier for them, not make it harder for them, and on that side we will support the amendment of this law, because it needs to help the citizens. The story of who's guilty let us lead when some minister comes, when we have more time to prepare, more information. That may be the most unusual thing about all these laws, which comes as a proposal for MPs, and there are no ministers here. The minister who, a year ago, Mr. Ilic, explained this law was no longer in charge of the area. Someone else is a minister, so maybe again he could transfer to some former regime of guilt. On the other hand, the minister of justice, who signed these two initiatives, could also appear here and propose it through the government and then talk about the state of justice and see why the judiciary has been blocked for more than a month, almost a month and a half, and why there are no solutions and agreements with lawyers. But it was probably also the intention to put these laws in the process, without the government, without the minister here, in order to avoid this kind of debate. We can argue, of course, to avoid here, we can eliminate it in the media, that nothing is said and that only one side is heard, one truth, but life goes its own way. It comes to people's vote that maybe it's not all that they can see in the media, that it's not all that government representatives, representatives of the ruling majority, that it has a different opinion, that maybe someone else is responsible for their problems, and not just the former regime until 2012. Today, here, the end of 2014, so I guess someone was responsible for something in this country in the past two years for what was not well done. As everyone boasts about what has been done well, I think elemental decency requires us to accept criticism of what was not well done during that period and to draw something out of that criticism and to be better in the next period. I sincerely hope and, regardless of the constructiveity of proposing this law, and I repeat once again that we have been offered to support it too, I don't think it's necessary to exclude the government from such changes, ministers should not be excluded. Let them come and propose the same laws with two or three members and give us the opportunity to talk about the situation and the situation in the particular area in which the law is being passed, because this is how we are today, I think, denied for a quality discussion, but that is the thing of this Parliament, the way we have been working for the past six months, which is not good for us and which does not respond to the problems of the citizens that they are facing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12318	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The People's MP Zoran Babic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12319	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am reporting on the basis of replication and personal mention, and otherwise my distinguished colleague, Mr. Vladimir Orlic, will be and is in charge of the parliamentary group as authorized. I thank Mr. Djurisic for his honesty, because the wish of SNS and my colleagues, Mrs. Rakic and Mrs. Biljana Pilje, was to make an agreement, to look for points of integration of our policies, not for the points of separation. I'm sorry we couldn't come to this because of some kind of political fear. Instead of being proud to agree on some things and thus send a strong message to the citizens of Serbia that these points that we agree on are the most stable in our society, for one reason why we do not have the signature of 249 MPs, because there are 249 MPs in the National Assembly, because for one we expect to resign at any moment, if, of course, there is political honesty and honesty. On the other hand, what really bothered me is the inconsistencies that are so obvious in this room. When the ministers come and defend the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then it is said -- my God, this National Assembly is like a flow water heater, what are we asking ourselves here? When the National Assembly, or the People's MPs, under the Constitution guaranteed the right to be legislators, propose laws, they say – where is the minister? You agree once, do you want the Ministers here or do you not want the Ministers? Do you want the Assembly to do its legislative and control and all functions to take over or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12320	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12321	Not only is something different going on, and I'm going to remind you that in the eighth session we didn't have any laws when it was a former regime, I'd very much like to define it again, but unfortunately I won't have time, there will be no chance, no single law of Parliament has been in four years, and this is some seventh or eighth case where MPs are legislators.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12322	The floor has a representative of the proposing National MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12323	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Ambassador Djurisic for the correct debate, as far as the Law on Legalisation is concerned, and simply to say that we are aware that in six months' time, this job can certainly not be brought to an end and that I repeat only something I have already said in the discussion. The deadline was set only to bring new acts, a new regulation, announced by the ministry. You know, that the minister took office six months ago in this position, it was simply not possible to lay down regulations and simply should not be dealt with in a fast-track manner in a single area like this. I've seen that your parliamentary group has submitted an amendment that this deadline wants to extend by four years, and I'd like it to be shorter, that it just happens to be done a lot sooner in practice and finally put an end to legalization. As for my discussion in the first part, I really didn't want it to be aggressive and it wasn't aggressive, but I really can't keep quiet and close my eyes on the story of the MPs acting autistic, and instead of helping to solve things now, they act like wild construction showed up yesterday, that something that we ourselves need to solve instead of finally taking responsibility for themselves and accepting that they didn't do a good job.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12324	Thank you, Miss Rakic. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Nedo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12325	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, first of all, I would like to point out that the proposed amendments to the Law on Judges are confirmed by fundamental principles and fundamental principles on which the judiciary rests, and one of the most important principles is the principle of independence of judicial function. The Socialist Party of Serbia has consistently insisted on respecting the independence of the judge's post, as it protects the Constitution and contributes to strengthening Serbia as a state with a stable arrangement and a legal system. Therefore, in the proposed amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prosecutors, the MEP sees the independence of the judge's and the independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office as the primary objective. When we talk about the independence of the judge's office, we in the SPS parliamentary group are starting from the fact that this independence must primarily be financial, dear fellow MPs, which means an adequate material position of the judge, an adequate profit. When we talk about what is an adequate profit, then it's the profit that must correspond to what is responsible for the judicial function. The judicial function carries an extremely high level of responsibility and therefore this particular profit should represent some kind of barrier of all possible types of corrupt activity, bribery, counter-actions and anything else that is absolutely incompatible with the judicial function. In addition, in this material position, the judges and prosecutors doubtless have to invest the state, have to invest in their expertise, in their professional training, education, that they must and how to make sure that what the Republic of Serbia is seeking, and that it is an elite judiciary, that there must be also elite judges and elite prosecutors. How can they be elite judges and prosecutors if these investments do not exist when it comes to professional training, when it comes to the acquisition of relevant knowledge from different areas of legal matter. On that, let's be completely honest, open, they have to work themselves, they have to work on themselves and on their own professional training. As a positive example of such a trend in the education of judges, I must point out one of our courts that I often point to in my presentations, which is the Commercial Court of Appeal in Belgrade, which, with very modest means of money, manages to organise an extremely professional high-reference and qualified counselling and education of its judges and thus help professionally perfect judges who are truly at an envious level. So, by the EU, the economic judiciary has finally been recognised as an elite part of the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. I must draw attention to fellow Members of the People's Parliaments that the very commercial judiciary, especially the Commercial Court of Appeal in Belgrade, has recently been able to create legal certainty for investors who want to invest in the Republic of Serbia and who want to place their investments right here. As a result, the SPS considers that such judges should be subject to special rules on the award of their work because it is indeed those who perform their work in an honorable, professional and decent manner and honorably their judicial function. The second type of independence of the judge's office is functional independence, and this functional independence of the judge's office is undoubtedly achieved by its continuity. That is why, in the SPS parliamentary group, we have come to the conclusion that without a back-up support of the proposed amendments and additions of all three of these laws, taking into account the objectives that have been declared by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we are also unreservedly in favour of. On the other hand, we believe that the quality of the judiciary can only be achieved in this way by finally eradicating the years of work, i.e. the time spent at work as a condition for the exercise of the right to pension, whether it be a judge or a prosecutor. Given that in all countries and far more orderly, both in terms of economic progress and in terms of democratic principles and postulates on which one society and other countries also contain these principles that have been declared here. Why is the SPS parliamentary group particularly insisting on this goal? First of all, because of what's going on, and it's not a rare case that we retire judges exactly at the time when they reach full professional potential. When they can do the most work on themselves, and at the same time they can do the most in the judiciary, primarily based on their knowledge and experience. Especially at a time when we can promote them. Especially at a time when the education of younger judges depends on their knowledge and experience. Is it wise for these people to retire? Of course not. Of course, that would be wrong, and that's why all of us who have signed the proposal for these amendments and the additions to the law are standing at the point that this anomaly had to be removed even earlier, but we are now removing it with full right. After all, judges aphirm themselves through progress from the basic court, through the High Court of Appeal, to the Supreme Cassation Court. It is in the Supreme Cassation Court that they choose the best, most professional, with the most experience and the most knowledge. Is it wise for dear colleagues, MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to choose the holder of a judicial office that will be the judge of the Supreme Cassation Court to retire immediately. It's absolutely unacceptable and absolutely harmful to the judiciary. After all, it is not a rare case that one who is 40 years old is still young for retirement and still has an ear and how useful as a legal holder. That's why both of these laws remove one anomaly that I repeat it for, there was room to remove it far earlier. On the other hand, we have a parliamentary group of the Socialist Party of Serbia that all judges do not deserve a guarantee of the constitutionality of their judicial functions. And which are judges, dear colleagues, MPs, we can agree absolutely all of us here present, these are primarily judges who have not achieved the results of their work, judges who are inefficient, judges who have been handling cases for much longer than a year, not rarely significantly longer than five years. These are the judges who, after the conclusion of the debate or the criminal investigation, wait to make a verdict for a year, the parties have been waiting for more than a year for a verdict, these are judges who have not rarely wronged their moral character, dignity, integrity, and honesty of the judicial profession. They're judges from that population who don't deserve to be in the judiciary. That is why the SPS parliamentary group believes it is not really a place in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are still witnesses that there are such judges in the judiciary and that even today we feel the consequences of a bad 2010 re-election process of judges and these consequences will continue to feel. He will feel that those problems that have arisen as some type of cancer have not been removed, and since then, the judiciary has been severely ill, and the cancer that has metastasized, and this government of the Republic of Serbia is facing these metastases and is trying to cure them in some way. How? We will know that at some point when the judiciary stands on its feet, which is what this government of the Republic of Serbia is seeking, and the SPS parliamentary group, at least with this contribution, is trying to really achieve this goal as effectively as possible. We must remind ourselves of the devastating consequences of the 2010 re-isodes, when, without any criteria, at least not those that are measurable, which are verifiable, there was a situation, to be re-elected and those who have expertise and those who do not have expertise. Those who know and those who don't know. Unfortunately, experiments have been made on living people, and even on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, all these judges have been returned to the courts, so in the courts we have again those who have professional capacity and those who do not have that professional capacity in any way. Therefore, the SPS parliamentary group strongly supports the adoption of a regulation on the evaluation of the work of judges, as well as the evaluation of the work of prosecutors. The reminders are working, the rules on the evaluation of the judge's work have been brought in recently, and the evaluation of the prosecutor's work about a year or a year ago. What we Socialists think shouldn't be enough either, the rule has to be consistent, to follow the time and have to follow the circumstances and the work of the judges. This Regulation should not show quantitative criteria for the evaluation of the work of judges, but quality criteria for the evaluation of the work of judges. Let's be completely honest, it's not a good judge who solves the inflow of the case. It's not a good judge who receives 100 cases and solves 90 cases in a very short time, but over 90% of his cases are suspended. Is that a good judge? It can't be a good judge, because he doesn't care about the quality of his work. If a large number of judgments have been abolished, then the question of applying his profession, his knowledge, his ability, and everything that any judge must normally have and what he must have. Therefore, the new rules that must be pursued and which must be updated, complemented must contain precisely the measurable criteria for the evaluation of work both judges and prosecutors. What the SPS parliamentary group is looking for is that in the work of the holders of judicial functions, it is particularly important to take care of their progress, their completion, their transition from court to court, because it is not rare for us to have judges who do not deserve to be even judges, or judges of first degree courts, to be elected in due time, not more or less for judges, and also judges of the Supreme Casation Court. This is why Serbia's judiciary is suffering today, which is why Serbia's judiciary is under great therapy today, and therefore Serbia's judiciary is working hard today, and the EU and the European Community still cannot, regardless of certain shifts made, give a positive assessment of the work of the Republic of Serbia's judiciary. We socialists couldn't help but look back at these facts, because it's just facts. It's about facts no one can dispute. It is that in none of these periods, when these catastrophic judicial errors were committed, the SAA was not represented in the resolution ministry, which was required to deal with these problems and to solve these problems. Of course, everything I've brought to the courts applies to both the prosecutors and the same way and the same principle and the prosecution must act as independent, independent, but highly trained. Given that she has highlighted the possible problem, I will refer briefly to the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutors, where in Article 3 of the proposed amendments, and in relation to Article 123. The Law on Public Prosecutors, suggests an amendment that implies admission to work in an indefinite manner, a public prosecutor who passed a judicial exam with top-notch knowledge, it is said with a mark, such an assessment, on which principle it should be in working relation to indefinite time. We in the SPS parliamentary group strongly support the principle that young people who have achieved exceptional results in education and vocational training are immediately employed in the profession. Dear fellow MPs, including us as promoters, must bear in mind one fact that is absolutely undeniable. We won't be able to affirm young, highly skilled people with an extremely high level of expertise in professional exams unless there are technical options in the prosecutions. What if the prosecutions are filled with jobs, what if there's no possibility of immediate acceptance of the one who's really shown extremely high knowledge and expertise on the prosecution's own trial? What if the competent public prosecutor has no place to deploy him, our proposal from the SPS parliamentary group as a kind of highly well-intentioned suggestion and according to the resolution ministry and to us as legislators, is that this is the way of working engagement and regulation of working legal status, with our support for our distinguished colleague, Algica Batic, is either to be precise through the amendment or to be arranged in another way. In our opinion, the second way is the synchronisation and coordination between all institutions, which is VSS, DVT, first-degree and second-degree and third-degree courts, as well as prosecutors by hierarchy. How? Simply, by making rules on job systematization at the beginning of each year, making human plans, knowing exactly how many members of the judicial academy will be, then distinguished colleagues, as rapporteurs, you will understand me when I say that we can then carry out both synchronisation and coordination and predict the exact number of those who will be students, as well as the percentage that will pass this exam, and thus determine the number in the personnel structure of those who will be safely admitted. This well-intentioned suggestion of the SPS parliamentary group is only going towards improving the quality of an extremely good legal concept, an extremely good legal solution. We support him unreservedly, as I said at the very beginning. Finally, given that my esteemed colleague from the SPS parliamentary group, Susana Spasojevic, will say more about the amendments and additions to the Law on Legalisation, I will, in the light of my profession, welcome, above all, all the efforts that appear to be towards the healing of the judiciary, towards the healing of the judicial system, towards making it possible for the citizens to be available to justice, as an ideal of a democratic principle, a democracy that must be affirmed in Serbia, which seeks to travel there and where it belongs, and that is the place of membership in the European community, then we must indeed point to the fact that we have supported something that already exists, which is to accept the basic principles and concepts that the EU has prescribed, as well as the fundamental principles for justice which has laid down the advisory advice of all EU courts. So we have adapted our concept of work to international acts, we are adapting our judiciary to the standards that are required and asked of us, our government is seeking what the judiciary has to endure and what will be reflected in the judiciary, which is indeed the first - legality, second - justice and third - expertise in courts. Only then can we say that Serbia, when it comes to the judiciary, has stepped on its feet and therefore the SPS strongly supports the proposal for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12326	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws and other acts on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the authority of SNS representative Dr Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't take too much of your time at this time, or I won't use all the minutes available, I don't think there's any need for that, that today's matter is more than clear and that we don't have to spend too much effort to achieve a good common agreement on the level of usefulness for our citizens, which these solutions are taking with us, but also on all other actors of our society that these proposed solutions concern. So, as a representative of the SNS, I first confirm that our parliamentary group supports these solutions, the solutions that we have supported with our signatures for the good reasons that we have heard in the concise and yet very contentable arguments of colleagues who spoke today as proposing. So, when it comes to the amendment of the Law on Legalisation of Objects, the proposed extension of the time limit for the delivery of documents corresponds, first of all, to our citizens. We have heard that there are a large number of Serbian citizens who have entered this process, which has started the process, which is not up to the deadline foreseen by the current law, submitted all necessary documentation. Then, simply by the letter of the law, there would be an end to the proceedings. It's something we want to warn, to prevent it from happening, first of all, because it's the interest of the citizens themselves. We will also make a few comments about what may have been heard today during the debate so far. Prior to that, the draft law amending the law on the public prosecutor's office and the Law on Amendments to the Law on Judges, in the proposed solutions, implies, as we have heard good solutions, that the basis for the end of the working century should be primarily transferred to the years of life, therefore 65 years of life, as the basic reason where the number of years of employment for 40 years was precisely the basis which occurred earlier before this first condition, no longer to be ruled. This condition, first of all, applies to those who began their professional career 25 years ago. Then comes the first meeting with the condition of years of work before conditions take place in the number of years of life. I believe that the basic logic is very clear and I am glad that there is a general consensus that this logic is correct, that it is about people who have started their careers early, people who have been effective in their studies and in the conclusion of all the preparatory obligations, that there is a good logic that these people are given the opportunity to work until they meet their old age. In addition, the prosecutor's law provides for an opportunity which, I hope, will become a legal obligation very soon, to provide for those who are the best among the best, so those who have completed the judicial exam with a distinction, must also be given the right place of employment. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, in this place to spend one minute of your time on one complete observation, one personal thought. The years I spent as a student haven't been so long ago, so I can say I still remember very well what it looks like, what kind of feelings a man is carrying from a graduate's role as soon as he gets to the end of what basic studies mean, possibly any further improvement, but the sooner he gets on a professional stage, to start working, to start creating, to build not only himself, but also to make his contribution to society. When we talk about rewarding those who have finished their exams with honours, rewarding those who started their career early, we are talking about really the most effective ones in this regard. Every diplomat has such a wish, every man naturally feels the same thing in the same way, but in these people, I think that feeling is even stronger and even more convincing and for good reason I consider myself personally, although I don't fit into those best, that there is a clear motive for them to work longer. I don't think so, because it's my personal position again, so that they'll retire later than they might give an earlier foundation to accept as punishment. On the contrary, I believe that they want to work themselves up to 65 years and not only at the level of my personal attitude, she also confirmed the profession, we heard today in the debate, the views of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the views of the State Council of Prosecutors, the Ministry of Justice, the Association of Judges of Serbia, the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors of Serbia. So, very clear solutions with very good consequences, certainly in the first place for our citizens, and then for prosecutors, deputy prosecutors and judges. I thank this opportunity and colleagues who have given support, colleagues who work with us within the coalition, but also colleagues from the opposition who have also given a good court on the proposed solutions and their implications that have given their support. I certainly understand the need for critical tones to occur at the expense of the government or the ruling majority, whatever is on the agenda, it is simply normal to happen, even when something like this is unequivocal and clear and useful on the agenda. Of course, there should be an appropriate measure in everything, but let's not spoil these solutions and this opportunity, further stories about any extent. A few comments on some of the objections they could hear today, they concerned the front row of deadlines and the need for urgency. We have already heard that the urgency, when it comes to the Law on Legalization, is undeniably clear, undisputed, that it is a very precise period, after which damage can occur to our citizens and that we forget everything else. It's only a good enough reason for us to move on to dealing with conclusions and to dealing with the formation of a common position on whether or not we should do harm for our citizens, rather than spending time here on any mutual accusations, not only because I don't think this matter deserves it and that these solutions that should be only good and useful don't deserve it, but also because I think that whoever's the kind of debate on guilt of any kind and for anything here today has started, it's worth it all and least, but well, let's not be the most important conclusion in the story. As far as urgency is concerned, I personally advocate the view that everything we can do today is not left for tomorrow, so even when there's any kind of backup whether it was necessary, I'll tell you a very personal attitude, I'm always up for it, if we can, if we're ready for it. The explanation that any accelerated procedure was difficult for esteemed colleagues to process the material received, that the preparations for the session, believe me, cannot be accepted for one reason only, because if I accepted it, I would also accept the claim that processing the content of one or two sentences is a problem for fellow Members of Parliament, which I absolutely do not believe, even if that is not the case. So, I would rather attribute this to the need to re-route any arrow to the government, to either the ruling majority, rather than as a real reason for any disdain. So, the material was concise enough, folded enough to be able to prepare in the time available. The fact of that is also the long detailed discussion that we had the opportunity to hear today. So much for deadlines and urgency. As for all the other grudges, and I think above all some members of the Law on Legalization and these other laws, which are not the subject of these proposed amendments, we have had the opportunity to hear today, that's exactly what this is about. So it's about preparing a new legal solution that needs to cover the legal issue. I think that a great interest in other members, other parts of this existing legal solution, is an extraordinary basis for all of us to show a high level of interest together and for this new framework legal solution that we expect soon before us. Finally, given that there was no need to draw any other conclusion on how to put fellow MPs on the issue of the vote itself, because, as far as we have heard, no one disputed the need to eliminate the damage that would potentially result from citizens in the case of one law, or no one disputed the usefulness of the proposed solutions when it comes to amending the Law on Prosecutors and Judges, I express this at this time of my deep belief that we will achieve the maximum width of consensus, joint will and act in an identical manner all of us here today as representatives of the People's Law, or that we will unanimously support the proposed solutions not only because it is natural for the set to happen, given such matter, but also because it is good even when someone wants to make a reserve and to show any difference between opposition and authorities. The sooner, ladies and gentlemen, we get into a situation where we all support together solutions that are good for the whole society, I think it's clear, the sooner it'll start to be better for the very society that we belong to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12328	I thank you, Dr. Orlic. We are now moving on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled search. The word has a national emissary, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12329	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, today we have a joint discussion on three laws, two of which are judicial and one of the areas of planning and construction. As an architect, as a member of the Belgrade City Council in charge of urbanism, builder and designer for more than 30 years, I would like to shed light on the views of the SDPS on the subject of legalisation, on the need for state planning and in this area. The Law amending the Law on Legalisation has only one member, and that member defines the extension of the time limit for the submission of documentation in the legalisation process. More specifically, by 1 November, according to the Law on Legalisation of 2013, the deadline for the submission of documents and the consequent application of Article 23 of that Law would be the situation for citizens to be interpreted so that, if they have not completed their documentation, the procedure is resolved by giving them a solution to the collapse. The ministry and several parliamentary clubs have recognised the situation and we have submitted an initiative to extend the deadline. Why is this 23rd member changing only changing over a six-month period? We expect a system law on legalisation to solve this matter in a better and better way. This is the 2013 law, the Law on Legalisation, which, in relation to all previous laws on legalisation, is the most rigid and rigid for citizens and we expect some improvement in this direction. All previous laws, the law of 2003, 2006, 2009, 2011 and 2013, other than the Law on Legalisation of 1996, were pre-inclusive laws, i.e. all those laws had deadlines for the submission of documents. That is why this member also has a deadline and we have an obligation to comply with the possibilities of local administration and state in acting according to the procedures and the requirements of the citizens. Otherwise, as a couriness, there are about 240,000 still pending legalisation requirements in Belgrade. Under the new Law of 2013 there are 39,836 outstanding requirements. I don't know how much you know, it may be a shame to admit it, but it should be pointed out, it is still subject to some legalisation requirements under the 1996 Law, or there are still unresolved demands before the famous 2003 Law on Planning and Construction. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia advocates a regulated state. It's a state that creates a legal framework, it's a state that creates a plan framework through local self-government that makes appropriate plans, and it's a state that has citizens who respect both laws and plans and builds in accordance with the laws. What has the state done in its order so far? As far as the law goes, she was pretty active there. As you can see, from 2003 to today, here are five, six laws in this area. As far as the plans are concerned, the state has made quite an appointment and this applies to the City of Belgrade. A large part of Belgrade is not yet covered by plans. Of course, this is one of the basics of unplanned construction. What I think is the biggest shortage of states, where the state has failed most, is to create adequate capacity to comply with citizens' demands, that is, if we say that there are 240,000 more pending legalisation requirements in Belgrade, and under the new law here are almost 40,000 outstanding requirements, that means that local administration must have the appropriate capacity to implement this law. You should know that there is a Secretariat for Legalisation in Belgrade that deals exclusively with this job. There are about 90 employees in the Secretariat, 40 to 50 of them working on processing, on operational processing requirements. Every one of those officers has his own hours and his limited powers. When you multiply the captainship, the number of possible solved cases, it can be seen that such a large number of requests cannot be resolved within the deadline provided for by the 2013 law, and we are already aware that they cannot be resolved even after this current delay for the next six months. So much sooner we expect a new law that will solve the problem of legalisation. What, on the other hand, did the citizens do during that time? Citizens worked without a building permit when they had no proper planning documentation and there was no basis for obtaining a building permit, and they resorted to illegal construction. Citizens also built when they had a plan base to build until they got building permits, both later and useful, but there are also unconscious citizens. There's a third group of builders, and they're investors. This is, in fact, also the biggest legalisation problem, because there is a huge group of investors who knowingly violate the laws of the city or without a building permit or when they get a building permit, so they break through urban parameters and later in the legalisation process, later, expect to legalize these increased squares, completely three different cases. When a new law is developed, we must be very aware of how to determine new members of the law and how to define the state by its laws according to three completely different categories, relatively unconscious, those who build a home for themselves and who see the only way within their pitches to build a room, build a floor for their child, and for that they do not have adequate planning and the ability to get permission and all of these extremes, and that investment legalisation where investors, richly, are knowingly breaking the law and building squares outside the relevant urban parameters. At first, I said the 2013 Law on Legalisation was very rigid. Of all the laws that have defined legalisation so far, he has prescribed the most difficult and rigid conditions for citizens who need to obtain proper documentation, and therefore, as a group of MPs who have submitted this request, the state is also aware and the corresponding ministry is aware that conditions for citizens who could not, within a short time, obtain adequate property documentation, are also to obtain different decisions from the RGZ. These are all narrow throats, courts overloaded, and they are not citizens themselves always guilty of delays in the possible completion of the necessary documentation. Due to all this I have stated, it is looking forward to the ministry's announcement that during this short period of six months, and therefore for all MPs who have been objecting to perhaps a short and unclear six-month period, which is unlikely to solve all these accumulated pending cases and legalisation requests, which is why it is looking forward to announcing the ministry, and is therefore looking forward to those six-month deadlines, because we see that it is likely that within a very, very short period of time and that the legalisation system law will arrive. As far as SDPS is concerned, we have decided in all our political parliamentary activities to propose laws, to support the laws governing the state. This is a law which, even in a small part, contributes to the regulation of the state, but we will be very interested in supporting our proposals, to make our contribution to the adoption of a real system law that will solve the problem of legalisation and leave the problem of illegal construction, the problem of building without permission, the problem of unregistered objects, far in its past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12330	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12331	It's three laws. The first law concerns judges and the legal amendment is that judges from 65 years of age retire. The New Party MPs support the draft amending the law and will vote for it if the vote is held at some appropriate time of day. So we support it for sure. The second law is the law amending the Law on Public Prosecutors, where there are two amendments. One is that prosecutors are retired at 65, by law. It's the same thing that has our support, unless it's just one prosecution, one specific prosecutor's office. If it applies to all the prosecutions, as in the proposal, then they will have our support. In this law and another amendment, that prosecutors who are assessed by the highest assessment are automatically employed as prosecutor's associates, which we will be against, because we think that this introduces arbitration and one personal influence on who will advance in the prosecution. We think it's a bad solution. It should remain to have the advantage of employment, as it says in the law today. There have been some other objections on the subject, and I think these are all the reasons that this other amendment in that law should not be accepted. We have these very bad examples that when these commissions do something, someone appointed by the minister to do something, to come up with something that is against the law, so we also have this solution of the Anti-Corruption Agency, where the replacement of Justice Minister Selakovic is being ordered, so it would be bad to get into such a habit. The third law, which is in this set of laws, which has nothing to do with these first two, but, for the sake of effective work, concerns the legalisation of lawless objects in Serbia, where the deadline of one year for legalisation, which was given last year, through one law which, I agree, was rigid and difficult to achieve, hardly could have led to legalisation, to extend the deadline by six months. We will vote in favour of this proposal because a different vote would put citizens in a difficult position, but we hope that those six months will be used by some future government to give a serious bill, which will indeed finally and permanently solve the problem of illegal objects in our country. The way it's been done in the last ten years, apparently the various laws that have been passed with that topic, the various solutions haven't practically solved anything. I think whoever writes that new law, that new government, should reach out to one solution that was used in our practice somewhere in the early 1950s, which is based on reambulation. This would practically mean that the state legalizes all illegally erected buildings, except for those objects that were built in forbidden zones, there on traffic corridors, protected waterways, all that is not normally construction land. Thus, this law would legalise all objects that are illegal, except those which are built in those zones and other than objects which are the work of “investors” that did not comply with the regulations, so all that were built for personal purposes to obtain legalisation. Then the question arises: What shall we do with men who obey the law? I think there's also a solution to that, that people who built the past period under the law with construction permits, with paid communals, with all that is necessary, that they get a reduction in real estate tax as a satisfaction. So, all legalized, which will bring a big, new income to the budgets, as I recall, that's the income of local self-government, and that those who built by law in the next 10, 20 years get a smaller immovable tax, which would be an adequate measure of satisfaction for respecting the laws. I think it's a solution that finally puts an end to this big problem, because it measures millions of illegal objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12332	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12333	Thank you. I'm advertising an injury. 198 and 107. You are required to give the word exclusively to the MPs. As far as I'm concerned, and as far as we're all concerned, the short-time speaker is no longer a national envoy. Thus, it violates the dignity of this Parliament, because that is how anyone on the street can enter, receive word and speak in this assembly. I ask you to pay attention to this and take the matter away from the session because it is no longer a People's MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12334	Thank you. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. I think this is about morality, but you'll still have to discuss it at the board meeting. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, on these laws, I will immediately say that I will vote for these laws, because they are righteous, give young people a chance to replace the old ones, that judges and prosecutors who turned 65 years of age, regardless of the years of work, go to retirement, and that they come to their place younger, new, politically unbursed, given that judges and prosecutors, who are 65 years old, have changed several political order, have gone through very turbulent times, have gone through various political pressures that they can still be subject to, have gone through sanctions, have gone through bombing, have gone through various troubles and have been through a certain part of corruption during that period. So, there is nothing better than some people, in whose expertise due to the circumstances that I have stated, we can raise a slight doubt, replace unburdened people, as before the National Assembly only confirms the first choice in the election of prosecutors and judges, is no longer in the jurisdiction of the judiciary in this way that this jurisdiction would be up to two thousand and some years. So, the judiciary, the judiciary, the prosecution is independent of this government. So, in every sense, from the former, because of that reform and the deformity of the judiciary, I'm not so sure. I think it's time for young people to have a chance and with this regard I welcome a special provision saying that those people who passed the judicial exam, young people with the best grades, that the obligation to establish a working relationship in the prosecution for them is mandatory. So, that someone who was the best, who had the best grades, who worked as an intern in the prosecution, that his admission to work indefinitely would be required. So you don't need to do what the party of the former regime did anymore. Just to remind you that our political party employees went directly to the D.A.'s office on the salary of 120,000. So, someone who was employed by a political party, thanks to my claim that the prosecution and the judiciary were independent of the current government, but not from the former, in the 2014 election campaign, a direct person from a working relationship from one party of the former regime went to the prosecution, which is obvious evidence of the prosecution's politicisation and the entire judicial system. I think that's how a political service was returned that was done by this person who had an extremely big impact on the so-called. reform and deformity of the judiciary. So, the same person, who had an extraordinary influence, came from a political party where she was employed to work in the prosecutor's office on a salary of 120,000 dinars and for the four or five months she never showed up for work. The prosecution and the judicial authorities cannot be a basket for political waste, but must indeed be equal to everyone. They must not be subject to the pressure of the political party authorities, they must be resistant to it, but it is obvious that our judiciary and our prosecution are still subject to the pressures of those they believe to have provided for their merit by the permanent judicial and prosecutorial functions. That can't happen to us. The judiciary must not be a party, and our citizens should today know that the Serbian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot in any way influence the independence of the judiciary anymore, and in this respect they should know that it is mainly the case of the Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary. So, we don't have direct authority, as the Assembly used to have, in the judiciary, so they know that when someone goes wrong about them, when someone unwittingly performs their prosecutorial and judicial function, it has nothing to do with the new authority, it mainly has to do with the reform of the judiciary that was carried out before the new authorities arrived, so before 2012. So I fully support these laws on prosecutors and judges. I think it's realistic that someone who is 65 years of age will leave his job to someone who is younger, that the judiciary, the prosecution and the judges will be rejuvenated in a way that some new people who will be completely politically unburdened, resistant to political and other pressures, and I have already cited examples of what was happening to us in practice and even in the 2014 election campaign, where one prosecutor received directly from the party to work in the prosecutor's office the person who went from the party to the prosecution. It is direct proof that our prosecution, still in a certain way, and the judiciary are politically instructed. As far as legalization is concerned, I also support this law and I urge citizens to legalise their facilities, in such a way to fulfil one of their obligations, and that these facilities can be used for various purposes, commercial, credit-lifting, etc. In the end, I want all the citizens who celebrate today's glory, to congratulate the glory, to wish them much health, happiness, to them and their guests all the best, to be more alert next year than the previous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12336	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic, and let MP Blagoja Bradic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we have three amendments to the laws of which these first two, to call them judicial amendments to the law, essentially do not have too many controversies, except for the other one. So, after the first change, judges in Serbia will be able to retire by meeting only one of the two legal conditions, which refers to age, an age condition, so to call it, so with 65 years of life. We do not see anything controversial about it, especially if we know that around 40 judges would be covered by this unfair provision, if it were applied. The second amendment to the law is already problematic. We discussed this with the promoter in an attempt to provide an absolute majority in the Assembly to support these changes in laws and changes. We didn't like the situation where someone with a reputation passed a judicial exam automatically got a job in the D.A.'s office. It is not because we believe that someone with a reputation of passing a judicial exam does something bad, on the contrary, we believe that these people have very little and the other really should be rewarded, providing them with a certain degree of doing business in this important segment of the Serbian judiciary. What we are concerned about and what is giving birth to our skepticism is the fact that a few colleagues have already presented here, which is that the Commission is assembling and putting together by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and by Minister Selakovic, who is in serious trouble because of the findings of the Anti-Corruption Agency and who should resign. So, there's a danger, I'm not saying that this is going to happen, in fact, I hope it won't, that the review committee allows certain people who are close to the ruling party to get that grade, to have a secure post in the prosecution. Why does this fear and doubt exist? Because something similar was done with the notaries in Serbia. When we warned you that there were only 94 notes, public notebooks in Serbia, that they had been given a monopoly of justice to earn huge sums of money expressed in euro a month, when we warned you that this would not be prepared enough to paralyze the judicial system, you also reacted as now. Then it happened and now we have to go backwards correcting the mistakes the government has made. So, I'm explaining why I think we can get at least part of the problem that's hit...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12338	Please return to the topic. I'm trying not to be a constant objector to opposition MPs, and I don't want to interrupt you, but try to get back on the subject a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'd like to hear from the promoter what the elements are, or should I say, legal levers secure that this doesn't happen? Although we know it's a small number, even though we know it's at least been people who have the best legal skills in our country so far, these are young colleagues. What was done to ensure the equality that the promoter spoke of? Equality in us is disrupted if someone is favored in the process of obtaining a secure job, in this case the prosecution and in courts. So that's our question. As for the third amendment and addition of the Law on Legalisation, it represents in some sense the culmination of your break-in of the continuous, endemic break-through of deadlines and incompetence because we spoke next year – dear and respected colleagues from the majority set up an ambitious Law on Legalisation and an attempt to legalise hundreds of thousands of objects in Serbia. You do this in a way that you leave it to local self-governments in which you are in power. They won't give good results, we thought then, we're counting now. For that we have numbers that, unfortunately, support it. These figures say, let's say, only in Belgrade where you've been in power for the past year, of the 240,000 legalisation requirements, only 7,000 legalized, in Nis of 34,000 legalisation requirements, only 1,000 legalized. Are we going to extend the deadline for the delivery of documentation in six months to implement Serbia's legalisation process? Will you come back again and say we have to meet the citizens, what do we want? We want to support these amendments to the law because we don't want the citizens to pay for what your party structures at the bar couldn't do, but the question is, how long do you think you're covering the incompetence of your local authorities? As long as you think that one system that obviously doesn't yield results, and which was made through the Law on Legalization to lift conversion, allowing your tycoons not to pay for conversion, now the citizens are getting one deadline, which is essentially six months, and I don't see it, and I'm asking the promoter, really collegiately to explain to me that in six months, and to what extent is your projection of reductions of only 7,000 out of 240,000 in the city of Belgrade? So, I think maybe it's time to find some new solutions that haven't been made so far, because this dynamic will take you 150 years to legalize objects in Serbia, 150 years. Yes, you will then be long forgotten political history. So in this situation, I think we have very specific questions that arise from two things, from a skeptic built on the bad experience of your government and other numbers that show ineffectiveness with a request and a desire to explain to us how we're going to skip that obstacle, so that in six months we don't find ourselves here again and realize that we need to extend the deadline again, which, of course, we want to do for the citizens, but tell us that you think you're increasing the efficiency of your inefficient local structures that weren't able to do so, and I'll remind you six months ago, i.e. Excuse me a year ago, we warned you that your people at the bar weren't able to do that. You did not then follow our advice, an application to make a different system, to extend the deadline or to introduce general legalisation except in riverbeds, as President Nikolic or some investors who do so fully with a clear intention of getting the money.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12340	Really, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12341	I don't know what it means, really?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12342	Here you go. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12343	And you know it's been built a few cottages in the Sava Riverbed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12344	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. A proposaler representative, MP Biljana Pantic Pilja, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12345	Thank you. Just a few things. The previous speaker mentioned the education of the commission to pass – a judicial exam, in the AP Vojvodina there is also a commission to conduct a judicial exam by the AP Vojvodina, so I did not notice that someone had questioned the appointment of these professors, lawyers, judges in the commission. Also, passing a judicial exam is very public and transparent, but the previous speaker unfortunately barely even graduated from law school, so he can't even talk about the judicial exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12346	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12347	I will thank the previous speaker, and I do not think that my distinguished colleague Biljana Pantic Pilja. Now I understand why agriculture in Serbia has been mutilated. Now I understand why the Stock Fund is at that level. Because buildings were built on the pasture of the second class, on the Vrakar. Now I understand why the Stock Fund is at that level. Building for the pasture was built, on the Vracar. I'm grateful for those words. As far as urbanism and legalization are concerned, it is strange when criticism comes from the people who have created this country's policy, who have created the fate of this country, who have allowed a top orthopedic from Vrdnik to deal with legalization and urbanism. When I get this connection and what connections the orthopedist, the cleaning woman, has with legalization, with the building, maybe when they answer to themselves, they'll find an answer to the question that no one from the local self-government, from the urbanist department, has been fired anywhere. The same people who did these jobs in 2001, 2002, who were then admitted to local self-government on the party line, the same people are doing the job now. Because we don't deal with political extremism, because we don't hate it, because we give everyone a chance to do their job in accordance with the law. Another sentence, in 150 years we may be forgotten, but there is a big difference between us who may be forgotten for 150 years from those who have been forgotten already, as presented here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12348	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has been passed by Parliamentarian Katarina Rakic, the proposing official.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12349	I'm sorry that it seems to me that I'm being ruled by obviously collective amnesia. First of all, I don't know why they're talking about breaking deadlines. The deadline hasn't been broken yet. It's the 1st of November for the delivery of documentation. I repeat what I've already said three times here, a six-month deadline that we're proposing to deal with and move just to wait for a new regulation that will be preferable to the previous one. Last year when we passed the Law on Legalization, I repeat again, we said we would follow law enforcement and change it into walking, which we now as responsible people do. It's not legal enough. We have to give these people a chance to do it. I don't know why you're talking about conversion. She's not in the Law on Legalization at all. You might want to change some pastures again, but I'm sorry it's not in the Law of Legalization at all. Why do you say that? You know, our people at the bar aren't capable of legalizing. Why did you even let them do this? What didn't your people do years ago so you wouldn't even give them a chance to show off in law enforcement. I just want you to just wake up from this group amnesia that you've obviously fallen into and support these changes, to help these citizens legalize their facilities as responsible people. Finally, let's put an end to this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12350	Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. Sir, Stefanovic, I don't even know how to say it, I didn't recognize you in the pasture so I could give you a replica. Unless it's something else I haven't heard, but trust me, I haven't heard DS or anything at all. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I was directly mentioned two, three times. She said - you across the street. There's a lot of MPs across the street. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12351	Article 107. Two inadequate medical terms were used for the state of consciousness of the opposition – amnesia, and before that autism. Autism, if this is said to be said, is, in my opinion, a serious insult to people who suffer from these severe diseases. Amnesia is no joke. You didn't react again, but you said when I mentioned illegal construction in the line of the Sava River, then you said – really... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Why didn't you say so now? [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12352	Here's what I'm saying. I'm sorry, maybe I didn't understand that term "amnesia" as you did, I meant more like forgetfulness. If we can interpret it strictly from the dictionary, then I apologize for not reacting. Thank you. The word is Mr. Blagoje Bradic. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Will you give me back my word, to try to explain?) ) You haven’t even tried to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the first half minutes, but if you want to explain in the second minute, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12353	I ask you, Mr. Chairman, to respond to these things in the future, because amnesia is one of the serious conditions most often associated with Alzheimer's disease. You didn't react. It's too much for most people here, and you're not responding to it. I think that's what hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12354	Mr. Stefanovic, I've already apologized for that, so I'm asking you to move on to something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12355	I understand that you apologized to me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12356	I apologized to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12357	I have two minutes and you have to let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12358	Go ahead, go ahead, but don't say what I've already done, I've already apologized for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12359	So on nicely asked questions, concrete, of the two of the three speakers of the majority, we got false, offensive, and all of what they usually do when someone asks them something specific. Only the last pay phone from them, when we rule out amnesia and autism, did she respond more or less in a bad way, but at least she answered the question, and you're not responding at all. So, how far does this situation go? Can you really take a minute and a half, two to put up with a certain exact question, or do you just want to talk about pastures and mental illnesses? What does that look like? I'm really worried about that as an MP. I know you're registering it. I'm just asking you to react. There's no need for you to tell me. I'm sorry. I think you should tell them to stop doing that. Look, I ask a question that's generally known and it's for conviction, and they use such epithets.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12360	Time, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12361	Please, Mr. Chairman, I understand that we are a minority, but that doesn't mean that the minority is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12362	Thank you. You didn't quote the words from the Rules of Procedure that I broke, so I can't say it to the end, except I already said that I didn't interpret the word that way. If you're interpreting it that way, I apologize one more time. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow citizens, we are discussing three laws today. My colleague Marko Djurisic talked about these laws relating to law, and I will talk about amending the Law on Legalisation of Objects and about an amendment that only has one member who says, in Article 23, "a year" is replaced by the words "six months". What exactly is this about? Last year, at this time, the building ministry, which was then headed by Minister Velimir Ilic, passed a law where in one of the members limited the time for which the party that entered the legalisation process must complete the documentation if the competent municipal authority so requests. This article says this - the Law on legalisation of objects set out for a period of one year from the date of entry into force of this law, in which the applicant is required to provide all necessary documentation. These words: "all the necessary documentation" are one of the basic reasons why we from our parliamentary group will support this law, and I will insist on the congregation majority to accept my amendment, which is the part proposed by the assembly majority to replace the "year-and-a-day" with the word "four years". A year has passed, which means the citizen has three more years of opportunity to complete his paperwork. That's why I say it. Therefore, in addition to the questionnaire filling out the legalisation requirements, there are a number of documents set out in the Law on Legalisation, which a municipal administration official announces to a potential citizen who requests to legalise his facility, which he is required to deliver in order to be able to legalise that facility and to enrol himself in the ‘Catastar of immovableity’. If a fellow citizen does not have complete documentation, if he lacks any paper, he has a year under this law, and according to the proposal of the congregation majority he has a year and a half to deliver that documentation. If he doesn't deliver it, otherwise he can get a solution to the destruction of the facility. It's all right if it's the blame of the citizen. But, for your information, in the Republic of Serbia, we have a poorly-dominated Immobilization Catalogue, and this has the effect that numerous requests by the parties to Katastra, when they get a copy of the plan, do not match at all what they have in their document that guarantees their ownership of immovable property. The moment you see the discrepancy of the Immobilization Catalogue and the documentation that the client has that requests a copy of the plan, he can complain, and Katastar can refuse. The second-degree commission that solves this is at the Department of Construction, and the people who solve these problems at the second-degree request of our fellow citizen has a total of six. There are currently 24,000 requests at the Ministry for a second-degree procedure. The dynamics of how this is solved - for the solution are waiting for a minimum of two years Milim that you will all agree with me that the fellow citizen who submitted the request and who complains about the second-degree cannot get that documentation within six months, and that is why it is logical for it to be longer. Will a new law be passed? It's not a problem, it can be. What if he's not brought in in six months? What if it's brought in in seven and a half months? In six months, shall we extend the deadline in a month and a half? So it's only here if we want to give one longer period of time to our fellow citizen until the law changes, under the applicable law, that he has the opportunity to complete the paperwork, not put him before the final act. I think the amendment makes sense, that it offends no one, that it dissuade no one. The new Law on Legalisation, which came into force last year, and I fully agree with the findings – the former regime, is from the former regime, the former regime has brought it to this parliament, and I hope that the current assembly majority will change it for the better, is so rigorous, that I am not now wasting time that I am very limited, that I am not reading to you how many items it is, but there are 18 items to be delivered, and among which is, for example, a recording of the electroinstallation in a built object with an atom. Imagine what it looks like in the distribution to get, so the video of the connection to the institution and the sewerage that the public company is supposed to give even though the facility is already connected to that same regular water and sewerage. These are all the time periods that are unpredictable in the country of Serbia, where unless the law is passed and the deadline is extended, a citizen who is neither guilty nor debtor suffers. I'm saying, anything that extends the deadline isn't about the responsibility or irresponsibility of the citizen. This is up to local self-government and to the republican authorities that need to provide a particular document. I think that makes sense. Meanwhile, with the development of different conditions, as you announce in the new law on legalisation, the huge problem is, and this should be the congregation's majority to know, the discrepancy of the Law on Legalisation with the Law on Planning and the Law on Agricultural Land. What's very important, and what I've done several times, these laws are not followed by sublegal acts that are an obstacle to getting all these papers required by our fellow citizens from state authorities and institutions. There are no sublegal acts for these three laws that I have said, and it makes it very difficult to legalize objects. How difficult this is, for the last year in the town of Nis at the point where legalization fees are paid, the realization this year will be 20%. The income, with the income of the property tax, is the basic income of local self-government and therefore the city of Nis will have a budget implementation of 60% of the planned budget, which means that half of the city will not work, stands, because there is no money in the budget to finance. The law must be so designed as to allow for rapid legalisation, but that whoever, as one of my colleagues said, respected in the procedure obtaining a building permit, would not be in a subordinate position that he paid and this one legalized for free. It's up to you to make suggestions. We will consider them, give our suggestions and criticisms, if anything doesn't suit us, but your responsibility is to pass this law that you are now extending the deadline, because it is difficult to apply and has not given any results, so let's see how the new law will apply to this matter. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12364	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Let Vladimir Djukanovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Ministers today will not welcome them, it is understandable to me because the government is in resignation, as I understand it, here today we are discussing three draft laws - on judges, on the public prosecutor's office and on legalisation of buildings. I, honourable MPs, with one regret that the minister is gone because the government is resigning, will declare my position on all three draft laws. We agree with the promoters that the draft law on judges should be changed in Article 59 and that a member of the 59th law should now have such content – the judge stops working time when he is 65 years old by force of the law. We agree to delete what was behind the wrist – or 40 years of insurance. We'll vote for that bill. We also agree with the promoters that the Bill on the Public Prosecutor's Office should amend Article 89 of this Law and that, instead of the three positions that existed until today and are still in force today, one thing should be written to the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor ceases to function when they are 65 years old by force of the law. We have no doubt that it's also okay. But, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we do not agree that Article 123. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office should be amended in this way as the MPs predicted, those 199 who have signed this bill, which seems to be now MPs, must sign the bill's proposals because the government in resignation cannot perform its function, to propose laws, as soon as it is in resignation, gentlemen. So, what's this about? The point is that it is predicted that the prosecutor, who was evaluated in the judicial exam, was given the honour of being admitted to a working relationship indefinitely in calling the prosecutor's associate. We need to put a question mark here, to discuss this matter a little bit, because there's an important question, gentlemen, the conditions in which we do it. So, who's forming this commission that can evaluate on some candidate's legal exam that he passed with distinction? Is there a minister of justice in our country, for example? Is this Mr Selakovic, who plays a role in this process, for whom the Anti-Corruption Agency has recommended that he be resolved from the office of Justice Minister because, I have carefully read this report, has caused citizens to doubt the safe and responsible exercise of public office? Dear gentlemen, does this mean that 199 MPs feel it is okay that the committee of which is elected and the minister of whom the Anti-Corruption Agency says works in this way and asks for its resolution, that we should then accept the opinion of such a commission that will assess a candidate with a mark? We feel that we should be very careful and that the Public Prosecutor's Law should leave the text that existed before this law was passed, and I suppose most people will still adopt it in two days here. When we talk about the Law on the Legalisation of Objects, the Honorable People's MPs, I listened carefully to the promoters there. I've noticed again that the proposing woman herself says - this is temporary, six months, it's not forever, it's not going to be settled in these six months. I understood that well and then I conclude the following – the promoter himself says we will not solve it, but we will arrange it, it will be a new regulation. Once again, first of all, SNS MPs are directing us to some announcements – it will be, except it isn't, and we can't get to the point that something is, gentlemen. I think you follow a bad example of the Prime Minister in resignation, who also said – will be better in 2014. Here it is, 2014. Now it says – it will be better in 2016. That's not a good approach. Ethics of responsibility instead of ethics announcements and intents, gentlemen. We consider it a good time for this term of legalization – reambulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12366	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12367	Madam President, the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, have been broken. It seems to me, four or five times, the previous speaker, Mr Pavicevic, spoke of something that is not true, which is in the manner of the party to which it belongs, so boldly spoken and lied. But also, what's much more broken by the Rules of Procedure, I think, Madam President, and I've been drawn up when I saw this list of speakers and when I saw the name under regular number 2. I think they speak in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and there are MPs and representatives of the government that you call. What's this man doing here, under regular number two? He was a minister, he wasn't anymore, he was a winemaker, he wasn't anymore, he was the owner of the company, whether or not he was, probably, he was an MP. That the congratulations, honor, honesty, that political, ethics that he was so called upon, I think it was until this morning at half past 11:00, when the Administrative Committee was scheduled to resign because of the false, false, insinuation which now does not mean that it will not suffer the consequences, ethical, moral, or any other, but it goes with the following deception, which is that the government is resigning. Thanks for asking, the government's fine. The government has the support of 208 MPs of 249, because we don't have a 250th. Thank you for asking, it is good, with the support of citizens and in the March elections, and I believe, in future elections. Thank God, it's also good because of those 45,000 people who got jobs in the past months, unlike the governments supported by the speaker, where they were out of a job.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12368	Your Honour, you have called on a Member of 107 where the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I can agree with that, since I was tired, I didn't pay attention to the government being called by him, we can say by a peorative name, that he's left behind, or he's false. Here it is, it is. I mean, there are no resignations here regarding the government of the Republic of Serbia, I don't know about others. I asked for a list to see who the number two person is because I really don't know the list. I've seen what MP he is. I have no information that he resigned because, as an MP, he has all the rights and obligations as well as anyone else, until something else happens. Please, just to be clear whether to vote on my injury? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. Yeah, well, I'll really check if it's me, I don't know what it's about. I'll do anything to see what this is all about. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica, to mention the name. ) There is no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zivkovic. He can't rephrase the answer to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't exist, and I didn't mention you. I haven't said a single name. I used to say regular numbers. The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12369	I would advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure 106 and 107 and conduct the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12370	He can't, since he called the last...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12371	It's done a little while ago. It can be done on a different basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12372	No, he can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12373	Yeah, well, he just did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12374	No, you can't, you can't, 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12375	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12376	Well, great thing you said -- he just did it, so he can't go after each other, 106. Just about the agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12377	No, it's not. Yes, I must say that it has been going on here for some time, in my opinion, inappropriately quoting in this room by the majority leader, Mr Babic, about whether or not he is an MP, for which he absolutely has no mandate to decide unless someone, as you have noticed by his own act, does not rationalise it, in this case the resignation, which will not happen until the previous resignation of the Prime Minister is adopted, because he has not fulfilled his promise, but even then, it is irrelevant, that one MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12378	Whose promise? I don't understand now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12379	... I'll explain, one MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12380	Next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12381	... He has no right, in my opinion, to repeat here several times that someone is not his colleague, for which he is absolutely neither authorized nor there are any material or any conditions for that to happen. As one MP has no right to say just now that I've barely finished college and no one has responded, and I've graduated from high-level college within a deadline. Do you understand? It happens until, even though you weren't in the O.R., nobody's alive reacting to this, in my opinion, really inappropriate behavior of most today in one session that has no elements of any kind, emotional charge or anxiety or anything else. Why is that allowed to keep repeating itself here in the O.R.? President, I understand, and most of it exists, it's big, really that most of it is impressive, but I ask you to set an example of MPs, to die, to behave normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12382	All MPs, all 250, normally behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12383	Are you sure? How can our colleague say that someone is not an MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12384	I thank you, MP. I understood both the replica and the injury of the Messenger, I understood everything. You have called on Article 106 that the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, that is 107. That it's only about the agenda point. You can't injure the Rules of Procedure just to talk about the agenda point. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I have called for everything that is going on, I have spoken to you. ) You cannot, must directly, that a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed. I totally understand what you wanted to say to the public, not to me. Just about the agenda point? I don't understand, this is a very good session where the most talk about the agenda, if all the sessions were like this, I'd be very pleased. Do you want to vote on article 106? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: No. I am most grateful to you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12385	Article 108(1), Madam President. I understand Mr. Stefanovic and he was totally management for advertising the violation of Rule 106, because the previous speaker, Mr. Pavicevic, was totally out of the picture and talking about the minister, talking about some free work, and I realized that Mr. Stefanovic wanted to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Pavicevic was totally out of the picture and that's where he was right. That's where I support it, so that self-critics isn't bad. It's good, it's a sign and a shift in advance. As far as these college gradings of student diplomas are concerned, I'd like to have the same archaics, so when Mr. Sutanovac, who's finished in 13 years and presents himself as a professional, probably a professional senior student, instructs me, who's done college in due time and I don't brag about it, I think there's a lot better students than me and there will be, and that's the way it should be, that I'm trained. And then, I didn't see Mr. Stefanovic react to something like that, but he laughed sweetly. But I believe he laughed because, because of one controversy with my esteemed colleague Martinovic, he said he had graduated from college at age 28. Good students, law school doesn't end at 28. Therefore, the same arches for all and for the same arches are ready, but only that this violation of the Rules of Procedure of the previous speaker, the respected colleague Stefanovic, who was addressed because of the totally incomprehensible arguments of Mr Pavicevic, I think he was right, that Mr Pavicevic was outside the scope of the search.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12386	A member of the 108th National Assembly attends the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm really trying. I can't do better, even though it's always said it can do better, but I'm trying. Do you want to vote on 108 or that we can keep working? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. Please keep working. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Why the injury? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Well, because I want to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. () Tell me, how do you think there's even a session going on, if you're appealing to one behavior, and then you're yelling at me from the scene – well, why, and how? You want to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure? You won't replicate, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12387	I really don't need to replicate, Member of the 107th President.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12388	He's already been 106, 107, 108, he can't do it again because she followed each other's injuries to the Rules of Procedure and didn't do anything new. You just can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12389	How could it not have been done anything new when Mr. Babic re-exposed falseness?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12390	106, 107, 108, can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Indeed, a lot of my understanding for everything you have to say to each other, thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: You tolerate it all the time. You can hold a press conference on everything I do, I don't mind. The word has Biljana Pantic-Pilja, as authorized, to respond to discussions on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12391	Unfortunately, counterpart Pavicevic went out, but because of the public, since it has been mentioned several times who educates the commission to pass a judicial exam. There is a commission to pass a judicial exam that is in Novi Sad, which is appointed by the AP Vojvodina. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Play alone, gentlemen. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12392	Please, MP, don't shout. She heard the public that MP Borislav Stefanovic is making a scandal here and makes it impossible for us to work and use inappropriate words when there are no arguments. I'm sorry to interrupt. (The DS emissaries leave the hall with a slamming door. I apologize again, I insist on entering the record that he knocked on the door, insisting on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12393	There is a commission that examines the trial in Novi Sad, appointed by the AP Vojvodina and Bojan Pajtic, and I am really embarrassed to question the credibility of the reviewer. I know that Bojan Pajtic is an unhindered lord of the AP Vojvodina for 14 years with 6% support. Please, the interrogators of the judicial exam are very professional people, it's a very transparent exam and I ask you not to question it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12394	The word is Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12395	I also wanted to respond to Mr Pavicevic, and I am sorry that he is no longer here, but first of all, I am sorry that it is as a People's MP, though, a new MP, still does not know that MPs can propose laws, and therefore there are no ministers there today, because we, as MPs, have proposed the laws that we are considering today. As for the deadline he said, if we just wanted to postpone the matter by six months, I couldn't agree, because if we wanted to postpone the matter, we'd put a four-year deadline and really get a space to do something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12396	The next speaker is Vladimir Djukanovic, and let Ivan Jovanovic, DS be prepared. Maybe he'll come back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12397	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I must admit, I'm sorry the opposition MPs left the session, although it's a good thing that those who are citizens leave the session because they can't participate...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12398	Please don't, it's not nice for parliament. Just talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12399	As far as the opposition MPs are concerned, I don't see any reason why they did it, unless you have any arguments, so leave, but it doesn't matter. We have important laws ahead of us, and no matter what, let's say, a little bit of change, but I'd go first and foremost on this amending and supplementing law on legalization. You know, we've heard all sorts of things here today, and he's complaining to the current government that in this way he won't, in 150 years, allegedly, be legalized. I will remind citizens of the chaos in the capital was introduced by the very furniture that ruled the capital until a few months ago, i.e. half this year, because the city of Belgrade absolutely took away all the information from Belgrade municipalities about legalisation and all this and centralized on the city of Belgrade. We had one complete mess, because out of so many proposed legalizations, only 2% was realised. Now I ask the question, if this is not the way we're going to do it in 150 years, and I agree that these six months, I believe it won't be enough, I just hope that some other law will be passed quickly that speeds up the legalization process. I'm interested in that method and the way that they did when we legalized all these objects, I don't think we would legalize for the next 1,000 years and maybe someone would study us if we were some kind of prehistory, about. So, at least they have the right to talk about legalising those who did everything to slow down this process and process, in order to actually develop an extraordinary system of corruption, because such administrative wrinkles that they introduced very inventively through the Law on Legalization have actually contributed to the fact that you alone directly to corruption were able to legalize an object somewhere. Of course, many have become so rich. Let's say, when someone needed to speed up the legalisation, then someone came in and put it in your pocket, then you speed it up and so unfortunately it was done, and we all witnessed it. Of course, many investors left this country because they did not want to participate in such corruption, such a robbery. So, what is now proposed to extend the deadline by another six months is something that is really good, but I do appeal to the state, and I believe that the Law on Planning and Construction will come very soon before the MPs, I urge the real government to propose a new law that will speed up the whole process so that we can finally introduce all these illegal objects into all the legal flows. Now you have another solution, what to do with them, whether to bring them down, which would be completely pointless. Who's going to go to Kaludierica and take down the whole Kaluderica? That would be completely out of every logic and mind. It's necessary to speed it up and the state knows exactly what's legal, what's not and to end it once and for all. As for these other laws, the judicial ones, I have to admit someone who personally opposes this kind of judicial examination, and I've always been against it, because I honestly think that in one day taking 14 exams, actually taking an entire law school in one day, is completely insane. I don't see what the point of it is, but since it's like that, it's really something that's hard. These amendments and additions to the Prosecution Act introduce some sense for this judicial exam because, indeed, the people who take the form, and there are very few of them, will immediately get a job as co-workers in the prosecution, which is very good, after all we have so many proceedings, the criminals, who are being led into drawers, we need new prosecutors, we need, as they say, new fresh blood in the prosecution, because, unfortunately, just as the opposite party, which has now escaped, while they were in power, the prosecution is also controlled. We only had three cases in the field of organized crime, and they were, of course, in the drawer. There's a lot more of them today. Today those 24 privatisations were also launched to be examined. We need good prosecutors, so this is something that's very good. And in the end, the prosecution's own interns will not be discriminated against, as they normally were with the judge's interns, so this is something that is very positive and I believe everyone will support it. I expect that even all 249, since one MP is no longer an MP, 249 MPs will support this, as the SNS parliamentary group will certainly do in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12400	The next speaker, Suzana Spasojevic, and has changed the order with MP Dragan Todorovic, such an agreement was made.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12401	I thank the president. What I'm trying to say is that today we are still in a position to try to change what it is or to improve the situation in which we have found a situation in one area of social life. Today we are discussing improving the situation in the area of justice and in the area of construction, more specifically in the area of legalisation. First of all, I'm going to talk about the situation with the judiciary. Since Serbia is generally known to want to get close to the civilizational flows of Europe, it wants to accept what is good in Europe, one of these civilizational flows is the essence of what is specified by the Commission's decisions, the constitutional Council of European Judges adopted in November 2010, the basic principles of the judiciary, the Magna Cart of Judges in which it is specified that there is no need to bind the retirement or termination of the judicial office for the completion of the internship or the length of the insurance period, but that this should be tied up only for years of life and that is one of the proposals, one of the items, one of the reasons why in this proposal of the law such a solution is proposed, that practically in this way and our judiciary is equal to European justice in order to fulfil our international obligations and to be compatible with both European justice and with global solutions in this area. I have to say, on that basis, it's also connected to the prosecutor's situation. We also adopted or propose to adopt recommendations from Europe in order to meet the necessary grounds for our prosecution's comparative approach to the values or criteria on which the prosecution is based in Europe. I hope that we will achieve better results in this area than we have so far. I must say that today's situation in which Serbian citizens live is plagued by many problems. First of all, a very difficult economic situation has led us into a position that we must reach for some very unpopular measures that we had to adopt in this Parliament late in the night, but since there are already fellow opposition colleagues who, unfortunately, have left the Assembly Hall without any basis or need at all yesterday, and I as an MP, two mandates who have been a very active opposition MP today, I know that this way is very negative for the operation in one parliament, so I would also like to recommend to my colleagues that they return as soon as possible because this is not going to come to any solutions, nor will establish any better situation or rating on a political stage. I know we've been trying to fight for years to improve the work of the judicial authorities, specifically the prosecution. Unfortunately, in this regard we may not have succeeded even then, we may not yet succeed enough because, in addition to the difficult economic situation that the people in Serbia are struggling with, the people are struggling with both major problems and with a great desire for justice. As I speak, it is likely that the strike of dissatisfied workers from Piroth, who strike because of a very negative privatisation, continues. It happened that one Slovenian firm was also sickened by "May 1st", and Serbia's rich and state-owned looks and that there was an adequate timely and timely reaction by the prosecution to warnings that came from the opposition to power, and I must say that in this small town called Pirot in power, there is a colorful coalition, whose head is still a man from the former URS or now as it is called, but there is also a government that supports DS, therefore, warnings that crime that has to be prevented or has already been seen in that privatised company, have not been adequately responded in the prosecution. The warnings came from us opposition committees, both from the SNS and from me personally as a board member of the Socialist Movement. Even I asked for a special session of the local parliament to be held, where we would have to discuss it, because it is absolutely abnormal that one firm, which was once the largest producer of men's suits in Europe, was privatised by two million euros, and that the country was charged by the one who privatised the company by as many as six and more million euros and without any reason obtained a material benefit of about four million euros. Unfortunately, neither DS colleagues nor colleagues from other structures in the Pirot government have found it appropriate to respond to these warnings, so we are now in a situation where we have very big problems and today, thanks to the inactivity of those who have found themselves in the situation of being prosecutors, we have to fight one ceasefire that is already in the advanced phase of flames. So, as an MP who has written a lot since 2000 in the form of amendments and discussed the first change or the first attempt to reform the judiciary, because I was then an authorised representative for the area, I can freely say that many reforms or attempts at reform in the area have, unfortunately, produced very negative results. Today, this government that makes SNS with its coalition partners and the Socialist Movement, which I belong to, is trying to improve the situation in that area. We demand or seek and ask citizens to understand that they really have patience, because maybe their hunger for justice, their thirst for righteousness is really so much so that we can't adequately fulfill these wishes, but we try what is in our power and try as much as possible to improve the situation in this area. As far as legalisation is concerned, which is one really different problem, but related to the tendency of Serbian citizens to live in a regulated state, to live in a way that does not pose a problem for them, to live freely, to live in their legalized facilities, which will not be difficult, or that they will not have to think about whether someone will knock on their door tomorrow or ask them for permission, legalisation, we all want to live peacefully in an orderly state. It's not possible to achieve everything we've plotted within certain deadlines. This proposed extension of the deadline is in this sense to allow citizens, and also those entities at the local level, again, I will remind myself that there are not only the authorities that make up the SNS and its coalition partners, but there are a lot of those from the opposition structures, unfortunately, who have left the session of the republican parliament today, and therefore we must all ask ourselves whether we have done enough to address this legalisation problem and we must indeed take all of them to the common forces, and not like this, leaving parliament sessions and running away from the problems or sticking our heads into the sand, to try to or to try to take off some of their responsibility. A large number of speakers spoke about what was before. I would like to underline once again that people who are not trained to deal with certain areas of education should not be trained, but this chaotic situation in the area of construction and urbanism can also be attributed to those who were truly unprofessional and led or took up the leadership positions on this plan. That's why I'm calling on all my colleagues to support these bill proposals. I hope that opposition MPs will also return and prove by their participation in parliament that they are consistent with their commitment to work together to improve Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12402	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12403	In my discussion today, I will stick to the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on legalisation, which is otherwise a very important topic, a very important issue and a decades-old problem in Serbia. Today, we have heard in the debates of MPs that there are between 1,300,000 and 1,500,000 illegally built objects and that around 800,000 legalized applications have been filed. Somewhere between 500,000 and 700,000 owners of illegally built facilities have not filed legalisation requirements. Of these 800,000 applicants, most of them did not provide the necessary documentation provided by law, except for the requirements. According to the latest Law on Legalisation, which we adopted just over a year ago and when the SPS parliamentary group submitted an amendment proposing an extension of the deadline, i.e. giving opportunities to the owners of the buildings that were built after 2009, so that they could legalise their facilities, the response was unfortunately very small, so that it was filed somewhere between 80,000 and 100,000 new legalisation requirements under the law. Despite a series of laws and legal changes, the extension of legalisation deadlines, the campaign that affected and tried to influence the owners of illegally built objects to place their objects in legal flows, unfortunately none of this produced fruit. No law in the past 11 years has been able to solve the problem of illegal construction. I am sorry that our fellow MP Borislav Stefanovic left the hall because I wanted to remind him that from 2000 to 2012, when the new government came, three laws on legalisation were passed, i.e. the Law on Planning and Construction, which contained provisions relating to legalisation, law 2003, 2006 and 2009. During all this time, only 15% of illegally built objects were legalized, so I wonder if, for all those years, more objects could not be legalized, how could this government legalize more buildings in just a year? It is certainly one of the biggest problems in solving cases when it comes to legalisation of our citizens' poverty, because it is not just a matter of applying for legalisation. The request requires truly extensive documentation, which unfortunately we too influenced by the adoption of the Law on Legalisation a year ago. Here, there are some 15 items, so I don't count them now, which are really for the citizens at this point a great cost. The minimum cost of everything is the land planning fee. Otherwise, local self-governments make decisions that can be paid for more wars, that there are various discounts, etc. So if we want to move forward in this business and this government is going to be a government that will solve the problem, which I have already said is decades old in Serbia, then we have to pass a new law, as the proposing representative said would be preparing for the next six months, which, through an analysis of all those problems or all those causes that affect the small interest of the lawless builders, will make a proposal for a new law based on that analysis. I do not agree that the main cause of the lack of awareness of local self-government in solving these cases is because citizens have submitted 800,000 requests to legalise their facilities and show their desire and will to legalise, but the question is why - they did not provide the necessary documentation? I noted that there is also an economic situation, and then, the lack of plans is also a big problem, not just for legalisation. The lack of plans in local self-government is a problem, that is, why some of our fellow citizens approach illegal construction. I'm asking -- what did we do in the sense of sanctioning local self-government that didn't bring in the planning documents, which is usually required by some laws and deadlines have long expired? I must point out that another major problem is that citizens fail to legalise their facilities and property-legal problems, for example. There are citizens who have inherited or received a gift of housing in which they live with their families, which their fathers have still built, and that the plot on which the facility was built leads in some land books, or now in the cataster since 1912, that there is no written clue that the purchase or any transfer has been made. These fellow citizens have a big problem proving ownership of the land, and therefore legalizing the facilities, because one of the conditions required for legalization is proof of property on the plot on which the facility is located. I have repeatedly mentioned this problem, and I have repeatedly asked to influence some of the laws to solve this property-legal problem that is present throughout Serbia. Then, we must note that there are laws that exist only on paper, but are not applied in practice, laws that are unarranged, which have a manipulative space in them to provide opportunities for wild construction. It is necessary, as I said, that we contact the representatives of local self-government and that they tell us what it is that has not solved more cases and why there are no more positive solutions. In particular, I spoke to the chief of urbanism in Smederev, who gave me some information that it was for example. After the adoption of the 2003 Law, the Law on Planning and Construction, which contained provisions on legalisation, immediately after that law was filed 10,000 requirements for legalisation. After the 2006 law, only 500 requirements were submitted, in 2009, 9,000 requirements and in 2013 the law that we adopted in the previous meeting 1,384 requirements. This is a total of 20,500 requirements, of which only 11% were resolved. From my conversation with him, I came to the conclusion that the problem with this last law was that the Constitutional Court's decision was pending for five months, and then it was waiting for the legalization rule to be passed for two months, and then it was waiting for the local legalisation decision to be brought into line with the law, etc. Once again, we cannot blame the citizens who may have wanted to build on a building permit, but because of unresolved property-law issues, the lack of planning documents, etc., they did not succeed, and they had to build on plots where they had to build a roof over their heads. Also, we can't accuse local self-government of not being up-to-date. In all, it is necessary to be careful and, with one good analysis, to come to the right conclusion and include this in some new act that will solve the problem of illegal construction, solve the problem of legalisation, and that this government is the government that will finally solve this big problem. It is certainly the goal of all of us here in the O.R., at least the rest of us here, to allow all those who have illegally built their objects to be placed in legal frameworks, and I'm sure none of us are the goal of destroying these objects. That is why we support the extension of this deadline by another six months, in the hope that some new law will solve this big problem in the best possible way. The SPS parliamentary group, as said by the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Nedjo Jovanovic, will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12404	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12405	Thank you. I'm getting a little bit more ready to talk about the Law of Legalization. But after three inspiring speeches from my colleagues, first of all Katarina Rakić, Branke Bosnjak and Suzanne Spasojevic, I have very little time and space left to say something new and not to share everything that the three have said. What I would say in a few words, that's what happened about half an hour ago, that a small group of MPs left this session, so whoever has no arguments and one who forgets that their ministers have been somewhere since 2003, it seems to me, Mr. Schumarac in 2003, to Mr. Oliver Dulic, were just people who wrote the law in 2003 and 2006, etc., and so on, they don't want to share with all of us the other MPs, and I see that the vast majority here is consensual and that we're all ready to adopt this amendment and supplement the law and to extend, and what's worst is that small group didn't even realize what the intention of these amendments is. They talked nonstop about extending the legalization deadline. No one extended the legalization deadline. We talked all the time about six months, to allow those people who applied for legalization to finish the procedure. I'd like to mention something else. The legalisation process itself is not just our science, it is not something they invented in Serbia. All the countries of the former Yugoslavia have the problem. Most of those countries have passed some laws. I even think that Croatia passed a law very similar to the law that we passed on October 31st, 2013 and everyone has similar problems. Maybe it's one of the better solutions, and that's what we're going to do, hopefully, after these six months and after this extension of the deadline, that's what the Republic of Italy did back in 1969, when it passed the law, the general legalization, only where those legalizations could be carried out, and then any illegal construction and any illegal action was severely punished and not allowed to build a man's house, so to tear him down. I think it's very hard to let someone build a house, so that's the same house to tear down. So, if we were to move in that direction, that future law would be a law that would be in one piece and fair to those people who were legally working without having a lot of financial impact on those who have not been legalized so far, because most of them were probably precisely because of these financial problems and avoided the process of legal construction. I believe that the adoption of a new law should also provide for repressive measures, the strictest measures for those who would in the future build without right. So I don't have to keep your attention anymore, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12406	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12407	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, before I begin my presentation, I would like to congratulate the great Serbian holiday and the patronage of the women of St. Friday to all Orthodox believers. Today I'm going to talk about the draft law amending the Judges Act. For this law, 199 MPs of this House have just applied for a change. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law amending the Law on Judges is contained in Article 148(3). The Constitution, which provides for the procedure, the basis and reasons for the end of the office of judges to be governed by law. Article 59 just prescribed how the life span of judges is determined. Namely, the first postulate, i.e. the first requirement, i.e. the condition for retirement, was – the year of age, which is 65 years, and the second, which is changing, was – 40 years of insurance. This is deleted and remains what we've advocated, which is that judges retire from the age of 65. The Advisory Councils of European Judges adopted the basic principles of the judiciary in November 2010, so-called The judge's magic card. The independence of the judiciary is guaranteed in terms of the activity of the judges, their dignity, especially in terms of employment, appointment, up to the age limit for retirement, promotion, wage determination, discipline, immunity, training and funding of the judiciary. Also, in 1985, the UN also adopted principles that are very similar to EU principles. Why is it necessary to pass and vote this law after a brief procedure? It's because we also belong as a member of the UN and the Council of Europe. It is not necessary to allocate additional funds from the RS budget for the adoption of this law, and this law should be published on the first day, or second, after the publication in the Official Messenger. Why? Exactly because we have international obligations and we are members of both the UN and the Council of Europe. The second law also speaks of the draft law amending the Law on Public Prosecutors, part of which refers to the retirement of public prosecutors and their deputies. What does that mean? Article 157(1) regulates the way in which this is determined, and Article 161(5) is currently amended. According to this article, one of the conditions for retirement was that prosecutors were 65 years old, but there were two other conditions. The second condition was that the 40-year insurance staff had a prosecutor, and the third condition, which was added, was that the prosecutor had the right, if a case had begun, to extend his working life for another two years. By this law, meaning in this Article in Article 161 of Article 5, these two positions are deleted, so that only prosecutors, as judges, are retired from 65 years of age. It is also not necessary for this law to allocate budgets, under one, and under two, it too should be announced on the first day of publication in the Official Messenger. Why is this good? Because the mass of a trainee works without a permanent working relationship, they passed with the highest marks a judicial exam and now we will have a chance to hire these people. This law, of course, the SNS will vote in the voting day – yes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12408	The word of the Messenger of the people is Dr. Ninoslav Giric; and let the messenger of the people of Jelizabeth be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12409	Dear People's MPs, we have before us a set of laws, two judicial laws, a bill amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted by a group of 199 MPs, a bill amending the Law on Public Prosecutors, and 199 MPs, and a bill and amendments to the Law on Legalisation of Objects, which was submitted by a group of 127 MPs. I will briefly refer to the law, i.e. the draft law amending the Law on the Legalisation of Objects by Emergency Procedure. There's been a lot of talk about this law. I will thank the legislator of this law, Katarina Rakic, who was explicit and exhaustive in this. The proposal for this law is that Article 23 paragraph 1 is amended, i.e. the words – are replaced by words – one year and six months, and that this amendment of the law enters into force on the first day of the day from the day of publication in the “Official Messenger”. By amending the law extending the legalisation deadline, I think it's an objective time limit for legalization. We have to bear in mind that the preparation for legalization itself, the preparation of documents is very extensive and that it takes a lot of time for it to be prepared, and in addition, there are a large number of unlegalized objects, and there have been a lot of words about it, it's supposed to be around 1.3 million objects. The previous legalisation deadline, under the old law, is 1 November 2014, and the urgency of adoption, i.e. an urgent procedure, is justified. This allows all applicants to have the legalisation of the facilities ready to prepare all the documentation and deliver it to the competent authorities, so that any harmful consequences for the citizens and for Serbia's economy do not occur. It should also be pointed out here that the implementation of this law does not fall on the burden of the RS budget, i.e. no additional means are needed to implement this law. I call on all MPs of all MPs to support together this set of laws that are on the agenda today. The SNS parliamentary group will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12410	The word has been given to the People's Messenger of the Jellysavet of the Colors.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12411	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, today we are talking in principle about two proposals to amend judicial laws, and this proposal to amend the Law on Judges and the Proposal to amend the Law on Public Prosecutors. The Law on Judges stipulates that the judge shall perform his duties on a permanent basis, unless it is elected for the first time and is then elected for three years, which means that the judge's office shall continue continuously from the first election for the judge until the end of the working century. The Law on Judges provides for cases in which a judicial office may cease, and one of the reasons provided for in Article 59. The law on judges is that the judge stops working time the moment he turns 65 or turns 40-year-olds into law enforcement insurance. Article 1 The draft law amending the Law on Judges is hereby amended by that Article 59. The Law on Judges, by deleting the insurance hold as a condition for the termination of the judge's office and remaining a clause relating to the years of life. These draft amendments to the law are to bring the Law on Judges in line with international documents, and above all with the basic principles of the UN independent judiciary. As for the attorney general and the deputy public prosecutor, we know that they are elected from the prosecutor's office and the public prosecutor's office, i.e. persons who meet the requirements for a six-year election, with the right to be re-elected. Before the time to be elected or before the turn of the working century expires, only under the conditions provided for by the Public Prosecutor's Office Act. Article 89. The prosecution's law is prescribed that the public prosecutor and the deputy attorney of the public prosecutor stop working time when they turn 65 years of life or when they turn 40 years of insurance by force of the law. However, in this same article, in paragraph 2, it states that -- exceptionally, at the proposal of the Republic's public prosecutor, the State's chief prosecutor may, on the basis of a proposal from the State's chief prosecutor, and the deputy public prosecutor to extend the working age for another two years, of course, only with their consent. Since the Law on Judges no longer has such an exception to the completion of the working century, it is proposed to amend Article 89. The public prosecutor's law, so the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor's office ends when they turn 65 years old. In Article 97(4), point (b) is replaced by the following: The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office shall only be subject to legal and technical correction, i.e. compliance with Article 89 relating to the termination of office by force of the law. What is particularly looking forward to is the harmonisation of the Law on Public Prosecutors with the Law on Court Editing, which refers to the obligation to base a working relationship on indefinite time for prosecutors, or for those who received an assessment in the judicial exam that they have passed with honor and they will be able to establish a working relationship on indefinite time in calling prosecutors. It is, in fact, a guarantee that these young people, who are well aware of the rules to be applied and who have certain skills that will help them achieve their work obligations and tasks, will know that they understand the importance and responsibility of the function to which they will come and that these are the young, smart and educated people who are likely to be in some near future in the highest judicial capacity. I would be happy to see such criteria apply to other actions, such as education and health care, because without a healthy and educated nation, we cannot deal with life’s problems easily. Only when our nation is healthy and educated will we have success in all spheres of economic and social life. In voting day, the SNS will support all these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12412	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if anyone who has not yet used his right under Article 96 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12413	Thank you, Madam President. I would just like to briefly sum up today's debate, to also thank the distinguished colleagues for a very constructive approach today. I certainly think that colleagues who are currently in the O.R., but also those who are not there at the moment, in the process, if that is their way of helping, with little theaterism for the public scene, to end this debate in a constructive tone. I believe that we have driven away all the possible reserves and doubts that have been launched today on certain individual solutions and I repeat, the assurance that I highlighted at the beginning of today's debate that, however, in the voting day, all of us in this room are going to be able to support all the proposed solutions for the good reasons we've heard today several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-27-0.u12414	I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. Resume session tomorrow at 1200 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Please check your system. I don't have a credit card system. MPs, please check. Take a little part. Make sure your cards register your presence. They don't register us here at the chair. Look. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's Messenger, Mirko Chikiriz.
