ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-02-0.u7471	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 135 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 165 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that it has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Dr. Miljana Nikolic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the sitting agenda, we are moving to a decision. First item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE PRIVATION LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the Privatisation Bill to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 165 MPs, against - five abstentions - there are no, there are no six MPs among the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Article 3, Dubravka Filipovski, Articles 39, 84, 92 and 94, Nenada Chanka, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordža Stojsic and Dejan Čap, member 12 and Mark Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Aleksandra Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blago Bradic and Ivan Karic, members 26, 38 and 68. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of members 1 and Article 1 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – two abstentions – voted 178 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – two abstentions – voted 178 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the three abstentions, voted 178 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – two abstentions – has voted 180 of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – two abstentions – has voted 181 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 169 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 6 and 6 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the three abstentions, voted 182 out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – two abstentions – voted 183 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – one abstention – voted 186 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 9th and Article 9th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – two abstentions – voted 187 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 10th and Article 10th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – one abstention – voted 187 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – two abstentions – voted 185 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – two abstentions – voted 185 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 187 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – one abstention – voted 188 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – two abstentions – voted 187 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – two abstentions – voted 187 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th and 16th Amendment were jointly appointed by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – one, abstention – has voted 188 of the total of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – one, abstention – has voted 188 of the total of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Korac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 186 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 180, against – no one with abstention – has voted eight of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – two abstentions – voted 186 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – five, abstentions – there is no vote, not 180 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – three, abstentions – there is no vote of 183 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 184 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 184 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 23 and 23 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 183 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 24th and Article 24th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – five abstentions – voted 183 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 184 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 26 and 26 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote of 185 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 27th and 27th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – one abstention – voted 188 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 28th and 28th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 186 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – one abstention – no, 175 of the 189 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 29 and 29 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – one abstention – voted 188 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 30 and 30 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 186 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 31 and 31 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 185 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 32 and 32 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 186 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 33 and 33 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 186 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – two abstentions – voted 187 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the 35th and the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 186 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above the 36th and the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 185 of the total of the 188 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 37 and 37 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote of 184 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – one, abstention – there is no, 174 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 185 of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 39 and 39 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote of 184 of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 40th and member of the 40th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 186 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 41 and 41 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 186 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 42 and 42 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 186 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 43 and 43 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote of 185 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members of the 44th and the 44th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – three, abstentions – there is no vote of 184 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 45 and 45 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – three, abstentions – there is no vote of 184 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 46th and the 46th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – two abstentions – voted 189 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 47 and 47 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – three abstentions – there is no, no vote – 187, of the 191 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 48 and 48 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – three abstentions – there is no, no vote – 187, of the 191 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 49th and Article 49th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the three abstentions, has voted – 188, of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above the 50th and the 50th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted – 190 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 51 and 51 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstention – there is no, no – 189, of the 191 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 52 and 52 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted – 190 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 52nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 177, of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above members of the 53rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 188, of the 191 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above members 54th and Article 54th of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstention – there is no, no – 189, of the 191 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 179 of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 55 and 55 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 190, of the total presence of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 56th and the 56th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstention – there is no, no vote – 191 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted—185, of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 57 and 57 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 192 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 58 and 58 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 193, of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 59 and 59 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 193, of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 60th and the 60th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 193, of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the 61st and the 61st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 193, of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 62 and of the 62nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 193, of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 63 and 63 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 193, of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the 64th and the 64th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 192 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the 65th and the 65th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 192 of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 66th and Article 66th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 192 of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 67 and 67 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against -one, the abstentions - there is no, 192 out of the total 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Dr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, no one, with abstentions, has voted 180 out of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 68 and 68 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against -one, the abstentions - there is no, 192 out of the total 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 69 and 69 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 192 out of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 70th and Article 70th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 193 out of the 196 MPs present did not vote for -one against -two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 71 and 71 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against - two abstentions - did 194 of the 196 MPs present vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 72 and 72 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - no one, against - one, abstention - did 195 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 73 and 73 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 194 of the 196 MPs present did not vote for -one, against -one, abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 74 and 74 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 193 out of the 195 MPs present did not vote for - one, against -one, abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 75 and 75 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 193 out of the 195 MPs present did not vote for -one, against -one, abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 76th and Article 76th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - two, abstentions - there is no, 192 out of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 77 and 77 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - no one, against - one, with abstentions - has voted 194 out of the 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 78 and 78 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - one, with abstention - there is no vote, 191 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 79 and 79 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - one, abstention - there is no, 192 out of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 80 and 80 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - one, abstention - there is no, 192 out of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 81 and 81 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 192 out of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 82 and 82 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - two, abstentions – there is no vote, 191 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 83rd and of the 83rd Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 193 out of the 195 MPs present did not vote for -one, against -one, abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above members of 84th and Article 84th of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no 193 out of the 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 85 and 85 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - one, abstention - there is no vote, 191 of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 86th and Article 86th, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - no one, against - two, abstentions - has voted, 192 out of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 87th and Article 87th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 192 out of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 88 and 88 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 192 out of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above Articles 89 and 89 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – two abstentions – voted 194 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 90th and Article 90th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the three abstentions, voted 193 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 91 and 91 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – four, abstentions – there is no vote, 191 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 92 and 92 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 193 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 93 and 93 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two abstentions – 193 of the 196 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 94th and Article 94th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there are no, 192 of the 196 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 95th and 95th Amendment were jointly appointed by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – five, abstentions – there is no vote of 189 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have come to the conclusion of the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the proposal for a law on privatisation in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 178, against – 12 abstentions – there are no, seven of the 197 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Privatisation Act by majority. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SPECIFICATIONS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on bankruptcy, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, v – 13, abstention – one, eight of the 197 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on the amendments, I remind you that MP Mladen Grujic has writtenly withdrawn amendments that he has proposed to add new members 3a, 11a, 12a, 14a, 15a, 25a, 28a, 32a, 43a, 48a, 49a, 49b, 49v and 50a; that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is in accordance with Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as incomplete amendments to the National MP Mladen Grujic to whom he proposed the addition of new members 1, 1a, 6a, 6b, 12b and 66a and amendments to Article 68, and that rejected amendments could not be discussed and not be voted and that an integral part of the bill had become amendments submitted by the MPs: Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic - Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karić on Articles 4, 6 and 51 with corrections, Gordana Komić on Article 13 with correction, Boris Stefanović on Article 24 and Dr Branislav Blažić on Article 45. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic - Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 178 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 193 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 188 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – nine abstentions – there is no vote, 168 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic - Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic - Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, v – 13 abstentions – there is no, 164 of the total of 195 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 68th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Tatomir. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 192 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on bankruptcy, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166, v – 14, abstention – one, 16 of the 197 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Ireland. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedure of the REGISTR REGISTR Agency I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a review of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – four abstentions – there is no vote, 24 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Public Information and Media Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on public information and the media, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – 18 abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 20 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments submitted by the MPs: together with Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov to Article 4, together Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi to Article 15, Zoran Babić to Art. 27, 142 and 145, Zlata Đerić on Article 59, together Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanović on Article. 73rd and 98th, Mr. Alexander Jerkov in Art. 89 and 91. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – one abstention – there is no, 173 of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragomir Karic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 190 of the 191 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 172 of the total presence of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 187 of the total presence of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the total attendance of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragomir Karic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 191 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – six abstentions – there is no vote, 167 of the 191 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Milorad Stosic and MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – two abstentions – there is no, 178 of the total presence of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aida Ćorovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaif Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, v – two, abstentions – there is no, 173 of the 193 MPs present in total I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 176 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 175 of the total of 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 176 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Stosic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 188 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Stosic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 191 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – one abstention – no, 175 of the total number of 195 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 178 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 178 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 178 of the 196 MPs present in total I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstention – voted 178 of the 195 MPs present, I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 25th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 26th Amendment were submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic, MP Dr Blagoja Bradic and Ambassador Milorad Stosic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 176 of the 195 MPs present, I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 26th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added to the title and Article 28a, was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. The proposer accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session during a review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 180, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 14 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 172 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 180 of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragomir Karic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 193 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 50th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragomir Karic submitted to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, abstention – there is no, 190 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 55th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 195 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragomir Karic submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 197 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 58th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 183 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 69th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 72nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 76th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 82nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 191 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 82nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 183 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 182 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 84th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 181 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added a new name after article 84, was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 178 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added after article 84, was brought together by new members of 85, by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 181 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 87th Amendment, the MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 182 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 193 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 88th Amendment, the MP, Mr Alexander Jerkov, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 182 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 182 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 186 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added after Article 91, names and members of 91, 91b, 91v and 91g, was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 177 of the total 194 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added new members of 92, 93, 94 and 95, together was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted the amendment to Article 98. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 107th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – one abstention – there is no, 179 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 137th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – voted 183 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 183 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Stosic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 193 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – one abstention – no, 179 of the total 196 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 143 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Milorad Stosic and MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 176, of the total of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic to Article 143. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – one abstention – there is no, no vote – 180, of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on public information and the media, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172 against – 17 abstentions – there is no, no vote – nine, of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the proposal for a law on public information and the media. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE ELECTRON MEDIAS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on electronic media to the vote, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, v – six, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 19, of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the amendments were drawn by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Slobodan Homen to Article 9. It's a bill of law. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: Dubravka Filipovski to Article 4, Zoran Babić to Articles 11, 67, 88 and 110 and Mark Đurišić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Slobodan Homen to Article 14. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 180, out of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aida Ćorovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted—185, out of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 179 of the 191 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 176, out of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 176, out of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 5th amendment in the same text, the MPs of the people, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, together with the MPs of Olena Papuga and Dejan Capo, together with the MPs of the people Aida Ćorović and Jovana Jovanovic, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 177, out of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted the 5th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted – 180, out of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 174 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 177 of the 191 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted – 184, of the total attendance of the 19th Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 174 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 184, out of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 186, out of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovići Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted – 187, of the total presence of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—175, of the total presence of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 176, of the total attendance of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Goran Bogdanovic I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 180th of the 191 present MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178, out of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 180, out of the 193 members of the people present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 185, of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment on Article 10 of the amendment, together with the correction, MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Slobodan Homen submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 180, out of the 194 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 187, out of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 188, out of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 185, of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aida Corovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 178, of the 194 present Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 out of the total of 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aida Ćorovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 182, of a total of 193 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment On Article 14 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 183 out of the 194 members present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment on Article 14th of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 188, of the 192 members present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment On Article 16 of the amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Slobodan Homen submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178, out of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 180, out of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs of Olena Papuga and Dejan Chapo together submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178, out of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 183, of a total of 192 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178, out of 193 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 out of 193 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment On Article 26 of the amendment, MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 176, of a total of 191 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Don't worry, there's a voting procedure going on. I apologize to the MP whose head is in the frame. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 183, of a total of 192 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 175, out of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, abstentioned – voted 177 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – none, abstentioned – did not vote 184 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by the MPs Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 183 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. As part of the 38th amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic – Korac and Slobodan Homen submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, abstentioned – voted 176 of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 178 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – voted 179 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 78th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic – Korac and Slobodan Homen and joint MPs Olena Papuga and Dejan Chapo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, abstentioned – did vote 177 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, v – two, abstention – there is no, 181 of the total of 195 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none, abstentioned - one, did not vote 190 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, abstention – did not vote 187 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Vesna Marjanovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 92th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – voted 184 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, abstentioned – voted 181 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Mirkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – did not vote 197 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, no one, abstentioned – has voted 193 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – did vote 184 of the total 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 107th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, abstentioned – did not vote 193 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic to Article 113. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 189 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Culture and Information, submitted an amendment to Article 113(2). At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, the Proposer's representative adopted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask Ambassador Nenad Chanko not to influence MP Zoran Babic in the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 183, no one, abstentioned, voted 17 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic to article 114. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, abstentioned – voted 183 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on electronic media in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 180, against - five abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the total 199 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on electronic media. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Public Media Services since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on public services to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – six abstentions – there are no votes, 18 of the total 199 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before the passed decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments: Article 23, which has been submitted jointly by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Pek and Anamarija Vicek; to article 34 in the same text submitted by the MPs Borislav Stefanović and Dr Blažje Bradic; to members of 40th and 51st by the MP Gordana Comić and to Article 62, with the correction submitted by the MP Zoran Babic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 191 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 191 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 181 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dragomir Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 195 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaif Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 177 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaif Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 180 of the 196 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 191 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 181 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 13 by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 190 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 191 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17 of the amendment, the People's MP Mirko Chikiriz filed with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 192 of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstention – voted 183 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – three abstentions – no, 179 of the total of the 198 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 183 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 192 of the total of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaif Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – one abstention – there is no vote of 184 of the total 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 185 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaif Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – one, abstention – there is no, 184 of the total 199 MPs present I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 29th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 195 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one, with abstention – there is no 188 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 191 of the total of 199 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 188 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted the amendment to Article 37. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 182 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – five, abstentions – there is no vote, 191 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 196 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 184 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 186 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 183 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 182 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 41st Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 195 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 193 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 184 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, abstention – there is no vote of 189 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 182 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – three abstentions – no, 190 of the total 198 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – one abstention – there is no vote of 182 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 184 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - three, abstentions - there is no vote of 186 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 188 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, no one, abstentioned – voted 183 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo together have submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 60a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, abstentioned – did vote 182 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo together have submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 61. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 185 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on public media services in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 183 against – four abstentions – there are no, 12 of the total 199 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill on public media services. We move on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. I would like to remind you of the provisions laid down in Article 103(6) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 29 July 2014, at 16 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to an injury. 106, 107 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – five, abstentions – there is no, 174 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on July 30, 2014, at 16 hours and 05 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – five, abstentions – there is no vote, 168 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on July 31st, 2014, at 11 o'clock, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – three abstentions – one, 162 of the total of 178 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Neđo Jovanovic, at a session on July 31st, 2014, at 20 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 163 of the total attendance of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 1 August 2014, at 10 o'clock and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote of 153 of the total attendance of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 1 August 2014, at 10 o'clock and 27 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – eight, abstentions – there is no vote of 152 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Riza Halimi, at a session on 1 August 2014, at 11 o'clock and 05 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – 14 abstentions – there is no, 146 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 1 August 2014, at 11 o'clock and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote of 158 of the total of 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 1 August 2014, at 19 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, v – eight, abstentions – one, 147 of the total of 168 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
