ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-29-0.u19646	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 12th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the quorum for the work of the Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the members of parliament are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 161 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Miroljub Stankovic, Jelisaveta Veljković and Milan Korac. We continue our work and move on to the vote on the items of the 12th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal FOR AN ENERGETICS After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision and I put the draft energy law to the vote, in principle. Four MPs, out of 171 MPs, did not vote for – 167. Most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. Before we move on to the amendment, I remind you that the components of the Bill proposal have become amendments of the National MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanović and Dragan Šutanovec to Articles 3, 16, 18 and 20, Dejana Nikolic and Jovana Jovanovic to the members of the 10th and 19, Nenada Canka, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordžišić and Mr Dejana Čap to members 27, 35, 201, 211, 236, 288, 284, 281, 308, 301, 309, 330, 331, 345, 366, and 367, Dr Blaža Bradić, Biljana Radjana Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Home and Ivan Karić on members 40, 64, 361, 331, 331, 331, 345, 366, 366, 366, 367, and 367 Members of the members of Ivana Bradižjana Bražanović, Ivanažanić, 26 and President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 10, it did not vote 167 out of 177 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the 2nd amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 13, it did not vote 165, out of 178 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For -11, there was no 169 vote of 180 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 13, it did not vote 168, out of 181 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 9, they did not vote 172 out of 181 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the National Assembly's session during the review of the draft law in particular, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 173, 7 of the 180 MPs did not vote. Most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the National Assembly's session during the review of the draft law in particular, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 177, three of the 180 MPs did not vote. Most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 13, there was no 167 vote of 180 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 12, it did not vote 167 out of 179 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 13, there were 166, out of 179 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 13, there was no 168 vote, out of 181 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Vojislav Vujić, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Aleksandar Senić, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic put together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 13, there was no 169 vote of 182 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 22nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 15, it did not vote 170, out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 16, 171 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 15, it did not vote 172 out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 13, it did not vote 174 out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 15, it did not vote 172 out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 15, it did not vote 172 out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted together to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 15, it did not vote 172 out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For -14, 173, of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted together to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For -14, 173, of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For -11, there was no vote of 175, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 66th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. (Marco Djurisic: The system has not worked, it has not changed since the previous vote. But it changed for me on the screen. We will repeat the vote, the opposition is asking for a repeat vote on this amendment. If you can erase the vote on a big screen, I don't understand it. Is it okay now? We can do it again. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 66th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 17, it was not 172 out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. At the 66th Amendment, with the correction, they jointly submitted: Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 17, 171 of the 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Vojislav Vujić, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Aleksandar Senić, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted the amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 14, it did not vote 174 out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Vojislav Vujić, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Aleksandar Senić, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted the amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 11, the abstentions – two, there were no 176 votes, out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 16, 173, out of 189 MPs, did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 85th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branko Karavidić, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 14, there were no 175 votes, out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 88th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 16, it did not vote 172 out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 89th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 15, 173, of the 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 17, he did not vote 171, out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 16, he did not vote 171, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 117th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Blagoja Bradic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 16, it did not vote 170, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the 138th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 16, there was no 169 vote of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Vojislav Vujić, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Aleksandar Senić, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted the amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 13, 173, of 186 MPs was not voted. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 141st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 15, it did not vote 170, out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the 157th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 16, it did not vote 170, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the amendment to Article 158. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 15, it did not vote 170, out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 15, it did not vote 170, out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Vojislav Vujic, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Aleksandar Senić, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For -11, there was no vote of 175, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 16, there was no 169 vote of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 167th Amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidic, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. The proposer accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session during a review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 178, it did not vote 8 out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 180th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 15, it did not vote 169 out of 184 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 17, it did not vote 167 out of 184 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 200th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 14, there was no 169 vote of 183 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the amendment to Article 263. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 16, there was no 167 vote of 183 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 265th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Vojislav Vujic, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Aleksandar Senić, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 10, it did not vote 175, out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the 267th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 16, he did not vote 171, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 16, it did not vote 170, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 281st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 16, it did not vote 170, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 17, it did not vote 170, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the amendment to Article 288. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 16, it did not vote 172 out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted the 324th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 14, there were no 175 votes, out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 15, it did not vote 174 out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 17, it did not vote 173, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 365th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 15, it did not vote 175, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 16, it did not vote 174 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 415th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 15, it did not vote 175, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the existence of general interest in the feedback of Article 423(1). It's a bill of law. I remind you that the Government has proposed that Article 423(1). The bill has a feedback. According to Article 197(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(4) The Rules of Procedure, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, specifically determines whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I am voting on the Government's proposal to determine the existence of general interest that the provision of Article 423(1). The bill has a feedback. For – 184, abstention – one, not five, of 190 MPs. In particular, the National Assembly has decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 423(1). It's a bill of law. We move on to a decision by the National Assembly on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force within eight days of its publication. I remind you he's a member of 434. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force the following day from the date of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", and in accordance with Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am voting on a proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. For – 170, against – 7, abstention – one, was not voted by 12, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have completed our decision on the amendments, we are moving to a vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft energy law to the vote, in general. For – 183, abstention – one, was not voted by 6, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly passed the draft energy law. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to Planning and Construction Laws After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Construction, in principle. For – 166, v – 14, 11 of the 191 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 6, v – two, 182, of 190 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 12, it did not vote 178, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by an MP, Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 16, it did not vote 174 out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 12, it did not vote 178, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. For – 171, v – 14, five out of 190 MPs voted. In particular, the National Assembly has decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. Since we have completed our decision on the amendments, we are moving to a vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, in general. For – 171, against – 17, four of 192 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill amending the Law on Planning and Construction. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to THE BOOKS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Parent Books, in principle. For – 171, against – 17, four of 192 MPs did not vote. Most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. Before we move on to the decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments of MP Veroljub Matic to Article 1, with the correction of the MPs Veroljub Matic and Boban Birmancevic to Article 3. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The second amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen and together by Marko Djurisic and Prof. Janko Veseinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 14, there was no 178 votes, out of 192 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. For – 172, v – 14, did not vote 6, out of 192 MPs. In particular, the National Assembly has decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. Since we have completed our decision on the amendments, we are moving to a vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, in general. For – 174, v – 14, there were four votes, out of 192 MPs. Most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly by the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Parent Books. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit I am putting to the vote The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, in principle. For – 174, v – 14, there were four votes, out of 192 MPs. Most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, they submitted: Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 14, there was no 178 votes, out of 192 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. For – 175, v – 12, did not vote 6, out of 193 MPs. In particular, the National Assembly has decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. Since we have completed our decision on the amendments, we are moving to a vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, in general. For – 172, against – 16, four of the 192 MPs did not vote. Most of the votes were adopted by the National Assembly by the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Specific Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW on CONSERVATION OF THE FUNDING AccordS BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION ON THE RULES FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE BY THE EUROPEAN UNION TO THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE FUND OF THE PRE-PRUSTURAL AID INSTRUMENT (IPA II) Before moving to the decision on the draft law, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments to Article 160(3) of the Law have not been submitted to that proposal. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on this bill. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission on rules for implementing European Union financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA II) in general. For – 192, two of the 194 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted a bill confirming the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission on rules implementing the European Union's financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II). I would like to remind you of the provision of Article 103(6) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly be made known without delay in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 26 December 2014, at 10 o'clock and 27 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For – 11, v – 7, did not vote 169 out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Prof. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 26 December 2014, at 10 o'clock and 32 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For – 11, against – four, there were no 170 votes, out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 26 December 2014, at 18 hours and 29 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For – 11, against – 8, 164, out of 183 MPs, did not vote. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 28 December 2014, at 12 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For – 13, v – 10, did not vote 159 out of 182 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's national envoy, at a session on 28 December 2014, at 12 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For – 14, against – four, 164, out of 182 MPs, did not vote. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 28 December 2014, at 12 hours and 28 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For – 12, against – four, there were no 165 votes, out of 181 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov's national envoy, at a session on 28 December 2014, at 12 hours and 34 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For—13, against—four, they did not vote 162 out of 179 MPs. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the 12th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Please listen to the state anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem “God of Justice”. I wish everyone a happy New Year, since we won't see each other for the holidays. I thank you all. (The session is closed at 11.00 p.m. )
