ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14081	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14082	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, has given Serbian citizens hundreds of promises that are characteristic of being beautiful and not being met. None of them. I'll ask the prime minister today - what about the fulfillment of some of the promises he made? In the sixth month, Mr Vucic said publicly, he repeated several times, that apartments for 380 euros per square metre would be built in Serbia, that 100,000 apartments would be built and that they would be completed by the end of 2015, or his PR advisers said that he did not even say 380 euros per square metre, but 130 euros would cost the citizens the monthly war for those apartments. Out of these apartments, six months no more words, no locations, no projects are done, no contractor selected. Apparently, the company that was supposed to work "Arapdel" in financial problems. I ask Prime Minister Vukic -- what about his promise that Serbian citizens will be able to buy apartments on very favourable terms? The second question is for the governor of the NBS, Mrs Tabakovic – as it is and in what way, I think it is interesting for the citizens of Serbia, but also for the professional public because these things do not often appear in parallel law – how did she hire the NBS and lead to a loss of 43.6 billion dinars? How did such an institution manage to produce a loss in 2013? The next question again concerns Mr. Prime Minister's promises. He made us a promise in the election campaign, after the elections when it was to be covered with this information some unpleasant such as pay cuts and pensions, that "Gelezara Smederevo" would find a strategic partner, that the negotiations were in the final phase and that Smederevci would get a job. The last time he sat there next to Minister Vujovic said – Mr Vujovic, is that so we will shake hands now that we go to London and thus mark the end of the negotiations and find a strategic partner? It was a month ago, these competitive shops were not, there was no handling for the sale of the Ironworks, and unfortunately that promise was not fulfilled either. The fourth promise has been made these days. It has been said that in seven days investors opening 1,500 jobs will be known in Obrenovac. Meanwhile, the mayor talks about the Chinese, the prime minister talks about another foreign investor. In any case, there are no more announcements from that investor. The fifth promise, the prime minister said on a visit to Putin that the matter is over, that Serbia will export cars to Russia on a larger scale, i.e. that there will be an open line of exports of Fiat to Russia. What's going on with that? Is that a promise? Not only that, I ask the prime minister -- is it true that exports to Russia despite the fact that Western countries have imposed sanctions and created an opportunity for Serbia, that Serbia's exports to Russia have been reduced? The sixth question, the prime minister has pledged to mark the cost of a military parade. We didn't get that information until today. I'll ask the other questions next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14083	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first question will be referred to by the Minister of Education. It concerns the government's latest regulation on the recognition of higher education diplomas from Kosovo universities to cover the area the previous government regulation had, which was adopted on 9 February 2012, under the Brussels Agreement on mutual recognition of diplomas between Serbia and Kosovo, which has been there since November 2011. But in answer to my previous question, the ministry argues that the interests of citizens and the exercise of their human rights are not at stake. However, the practice shows us a completely different picture, and the fact is that only in five cases at the University of Niski, not at any other university, nor in Belgrade, no recognition of diplomas from Kosovo has been initiated. This is where the Faculty of Albanian Language, the only one in Serbia, where students who end up in Pristina have to nose out their diplomas, but from the previous regulation that was passed two years ago, they have yet to comply with their rules in the spirit of the government's regulation. Meanwhile, a ban or a decision by the Constitutional Court has come to be declared an unconstitutional Brussels Agreement, as well as the Government Regulation itself, and on the other hand it has been said that the six-month deadline, while the Constitutional Court's decision was announced, was already announced in late November, as it was reached in late April. In practice, there was nothing new, none of the items were solved. We have a status quo. So, the agreement is more than two years, but in practice it doesn't come true. What does that mean? It means that our citizens do not exercise their rights by the Constitution and by the law guaranteed. They can't work because their diplomas acquired in Pristina are not recognised. That's what I figured out last time on the previous question. Do we have to wait 10 years again, as in 1991-2001, when everything is not recognized then and it is dead, then the economy and all the social processes died in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, because the diplomas are not recognised. Gentlemen, we're talking about how many Albanians are in Serbia and it's guessing, it's traded, it's being manipulated that there's only five thousand out of the previous 62,000, it says here. The state now places thousands of those five thousand instead of those that exist on the ground, but it is that people go. Why are they going? They go because they don't solve basic life problems. So I'm asking the ministry -- is this six-month deadline now, given in the new regulation, should that wait and how long? I ask a concrete question – how many of these new six months should it take to get this process started and to solve these problems for people, that those who graduated from Pristina University can work? This is the basic question. Can we get him out of here? Is there a political will to solve this problem? This is a question. If I have time and the Minister of Health to ask a question? I don't. All right. Make it next week.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14085	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Please sign in if anyone wants a word. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14086	Mr. Chairman, I have a few questions for the government, asking that the government and the ministries we've been asking so far are finally starting to answer them. I don't think it makes any sense that we keep asking certain questions, say, for the Obrenovac, for the floods, and there's no answer. We have asked countless questions, to which we have not received answers, and it really loses all meaning. My first question is for the finance minister and the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs Tabakovic, and it concerns the functioning and operation of the "Serbian Bank". It is expected that this bank will be shut down due to a loss in business of nearly a billion dinars, due to a high percentage of non-refundable claims, the concentration of capital in eight related entities and 14 legal entities, more than 10% of the capital, due to the granting of more than 8.2 billion dinars of loans that the management has given to "successful" firms such as "Farmakom", "Beohemia", etc. Is it possible for four to five billion dinars, as far as the government is trying to find it in Serbia's budget, despite the fact that the rebalance is not intended except for the rescue and capitalisation of the Danube Insurance and Postage Savings, etc., it is possible to save the bank? We don't know each other as MPs. I ask, how does Serbian Prime Minister Mr. Vukic, whom I also ask, think he saves the bank, the "Serbian Bank" from failure because of giving credit without any basis to individuals and firms close to the regime, and he publicly says that he guarantees that everyone's stake will be guaranteed and that "Serbian Bank" will be found? I'm asking the regime of Alexander Vukic and Vlada -- where do you think you find five billion dinars when they're not rebalancing, to give to a bank that after the Universal Bank, you gentlemen have ruined? It's my question to the banking experts of this country, to answer that question. I also wonder if the SDPR as a state-owned firm dealing with a very serious business, profitable, has withdrawn its deposits from the "Serbian Bank" and is someone going to ask the question of the defence minister and the finance minister, is it true that the SDPR has withdrawn the deposit from the "Serbian Bank"? How do you expect this bank to recover? I ask the question of Foreign Minister Dacic and President Vukic, is it true that today's visit by Secretary Han of the European Commission means that Serbia today, a respected fellow, respected government, respected regime, has received an ultimatum to impose sanctions on the Russian Federation and what is the EU's request for us and to answer that as soon as possible? Next question for Mr. Mark Djuric, Director of the KIM Office, Director of Customs, Minister of Foreign Affairs Dacic and Prime Minister of the Government of Vukic – is it true that Kosovo citizens can go with the so-called. Kosovo's passport to cross border crossings, above all "Nikola Tesla" and if not true, to explain the procedure to us that at the "Nikola Tesla" international airport, where there is no country, you can only pass with confirmation and ID card? So my question is how can citizens from Kosovo only pass through with confirmation and ID, not with passport or pass with the Kosovo passport and you won't tell Serbian citizens? I don't have any relationship with that. I just don't think you should be ashamed of it. So break your shame and boldly tell the citizens of Serbia the good results you have achieved in negotiations with Pristina. This is one of them. Those were my questions for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14087	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14088	Mr. Chairman, I have a few questions, the first question is addressed to the minister of justice. Since I received an answer from the Ministry of Justice – is the deputy war crimes prosecutor Bruno Vekaric legally elected to the post, or is he illegally in office, given that he did not go through the National Assembly, but has appointed him as a permanent prosecutor? I am not satisfied with the question of which is also a material mistake -- that the government of Serbia's decision to appoint deputy public prosecutors, since 23 December 2013, has entered the post of deputy public prosecutor on 12 January 2004. This is impossible. I guess it's a literal mistake, but I'm not satisfied. Because of this, when I asked whether Bruno Vekaric, deputy war crimes prosecutor, was against the law in permanent office, I had in mind that in 2003, the Constitutional Court of Serbia declared in 2004 unconstitutional, and this is an irrefutable reason why he could not have been elected in 2009. I will explain the question, by the government of the Republic of Serbia on the appointment of Deputy Prosecutor No. Since 23 December, here it is, in 2003, appointed as deputy district attorney, the appointment carried out contrary to the provisions of the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, or contrary to the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, which entered into force on 1 March 2003. In particular, Articles 15. The Law on Amendments and Supplements has been amended by Article 62 until then by the applicable law, so that this article reads, Article 15, in the title above Article 62, after the words of the Prosecutors, the words "and the Vice-President", Article 62 is amended and reads as follows: "The Public Prosecutor and Deputy Prosecutor elects the National Assembly on a proposal from the High Council of Justice". So, Article 62's position is clear, Bruno Vekaric could not be appointed by the government, but rather elected by the National Assembly, so his appointment as deputy district attorney is illegal. In addition, Bruno Vekaric has never entered the post of deputy district attorney, so, within the meaning of Article 66 of Article 1 of the then applicable law, he is deemed not to have been elected either. Article 66(1) reads: "A public prosecutor, i.e. no deputy has been elected unless, without a reasonable reason, he is deemed to be in office within two months of the election." Since it's 2003. The Serbian government, before it fell, passed the Law amending the Law on Public Prosecutors, among other things, mirrored the government's appointment by the prime minister of justice at the time. These amendments to the law also reduced years of experience needed to elect the deputy municipal and district attorney, of course, for the purpose. The important thing is that the Constitutional Court of Serbia, here the decision, the amendments to the law, was announced unconstitutional and announced its decision in "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No. 44/04 and repeated in number 51/04. After that, the government appointed a number of deputy public prosecutors. The list, appointed in such a way, included Snezana Malovic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Fourth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, and Bruno Vekaric as deputy district attorney in Belgrade. Bruno Vekaric has never performed the duties of deputy district attorney, as he was given a subsequent solution to do the work of the war crimes prosecutor's office. Therefore, he immediately enters the Office of War Crimes and remains there after April and May 2004, when the Constitutional Court announces the decision to amend the above-mentioned Law unconstitutional. Aren't their individual appointments unconstitutional? From 2004 until today Vekaric remains in the war crimes prosecutor's office. So the state's major prosecutor had to know the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia never verified Vekaric's choice as deputy district attorney, so in 2009, he could not confirm his choice for permanent office. He was elected deputy war crimes prosecutor by the State Council of Prosecutors in the election of deputy public prosecutor No. 119-01-253/09-1 as of 15 December 2009. The decision has been made on the basis of the current Public Prosecutor's Law and this decision is illegal. Basic rules for selecting a deputy public prosecutor, Article 75. – The National Assembly, on a proposal from the State Council, elects a deputy public prosecutor to be elected for the first time to this post for a period of three years. So, the State's Chief Prosecutor is choosing the deputy attorney general, and he can't choose a deputy for the first time. The State's Council of Prosecutors' decision to elect deputies since 15 December 2009 shows that Bruno Vekaric has been elected from the post of adviser in the war crimes prosecutor's office, while all other candidates have been elected from the ranks of deputy public prosecutors, except for another candidate who has been elected from the ranks of lawyers, which is also illegal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14089	Time, bring the end. Please, Mr. Dracun, it's time, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14090	I'm done. I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14091	Please, I can't give you the Dracun anymore. Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Miljana Nikolic, Momo Colaković, Susana Spasojevic and Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly has called for today's session: Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice, Radomir Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice, Zlatko Petovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and Marijana Sarac, adviser at the Ministry of Justice. We're moving on to the alert law. You have received amendments submitted by Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavić, Olgica Batić, Neđa Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Dubravka Filipovski and Dragan Jovanovic and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Branka Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14092	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, it is weak to hear, if we can or can calm our fellow Members, because I have not even heard that we have begun the debate on our amendment to the title of the Law. Our amendment was, the proposal is to change the name of the law that is the law on the protection of alarmers, to replace it with words – the law on alarming and alarming. We think it's more appropriate, because the law itself also deals with alarming procedures in addition to alarming alarms. Even the chapter of Law II is called the General Alert and Protection Regulation, so we believe that if the law changes its name, it would be clearer. What's the matter with the law itself? What's unusual for who knows which time, that's an explanation for not accepting this amendment, which we usually got half an hour before the beginning of this session. It says – The government does not accept the amendment, because the name of the law is in accordance with the adopted uniform methodological rules for the making of rules, which is provided, among other things, that the name of the rules should be short and express the subject of regulation in summary, and that it contains basic information on the matter to which the law is governed. Yes, our proposal extends the name of the law for two words, but we in this Assembly have passed laws that have 20 words, and have very serious consequences for the lives of citizens, let's say, the Law on the provisional establishment of the basis for the calculation and payment of palaces, i.e. profits and other permanent users of public funds. At the time, the government did not mind, according to unique methodological rules, proposing a law with this name, and now that we have suggested that the name of the law be extended with two more words, the only argument is that it is not methodological rules that predict that the name of the law should be short. That you've given some other explanation, so let's discuss it. I don't know how to understand this argument, except for the minister's clear will not to accept any of our proposals, as none of our amendments to this law have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14093	Did you use the MP's time? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: The time of the head of the parliamentary group. All right. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. And let me ask you, if you step over two minutes, should I turn down the head of the parliamentary group? Yeah. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14094	We have submitted this amendment to the Code on the Protection of Alertors, in Article 2 paragraph 1, and it is said: “The alerting is the disclosure of information on violations of regulations, violations of human rights, the exercise of public authority against purpose, which is why life threats, public health, safety, the environment, as well as the prevention of damage to large scales, have been entrusted to this law. “ In point 2, “in relation to their employment, employment, use of services, etc.,” and point 3 of the word “employer” and in all other members of this law, the word “organisation” is replaced in a given downturn by the word “organisation” in the corresponding decline. Point 7 is amended and it reads: “Any action of any action or inaction relating to an alert which is entitled to protection as an alarmer is jeopardising or injures a right or an interest which is not contrary to the law, or which those persons are placed in a more unfavourable position. ” So the proposed definitions were made to make things much more precise in the bill's proposal, that people have no idea what the term means, what the field of action is related to, and thus, in our view, provides a much higher degree of protection for the alarmers themselves. It does not contain any treatment, definition, in accordance with the information disclosure rules, as prescribed by this law. If the definition is not supplemented, the idea of an alarmer would include many situations where there would be no legal protection, which could create difficulties in the application of the law. If the definition is not supplemented, it would be necessary to supplement more of the other provisions of the law. In this respect, the reasons for point 3 are not clear, which is why a restriction has been made on the basis of those forms of connection between the alerters and the authorities or organisations in which public interest has been compromised. It is not clear why alarming status would be established by any form of connection between the alarmers and the authorities under which a breach of public interest occurred. The term "employee" is inadequate in the proposed law. It represents only a synonym for the body, organisation, legal person or economic operator in which a breach of public interest occurred. This is why we propose to replace the inadequate word "employer" with the relatively neutral word "organisation". If I'm well informed, I think they've even adopted it, this precision, therefore, that the amendment has been accepted in that sense to change the term, since I've seen that they've accepted in one place an "organisation" instead of an "organ". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14095	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14096	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards this amendment, in which the Proposer has said - alarming is the disclosure of information on violations of regulations, violations of human rights, the exercise of public authority is the intended purpose for which life, public health, safety, the environment, as well as for the prevention of damage to large scales, done in accordance with this law, which is your supplement, I would like to say that the meaning of this amendment is already prescribed in Article 5 of the Law, where it is said: "The alarmer has the right to protect, in accordance with the law, if he carries out an alert with the employer, authorized body or the public in a manner prescribed law." This means that this amendment is already prescribed by law in Article 5, only it is necessary to read and understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14097	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14098	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, dear guests, what was the topic and in the principle debate, and somewhere we had no opportunity to respond to all your comments and we had no opportunity to actually comment on your comments, with this amendment specifically Mr Selakovic said that this was specifically sought by the Council of Europe. When it comes to point 3, we have said that we do not see that a restriction has been made on the basis of those forms of linkage between alarmers and organs or organisations that have put public interest at risk. Therefore, we do not understand why alarming status would be conditioned by any form of connection between the alarmers and the organs in which a breach of public interest occurred. In that comment we had the opportunity to hear, personally, that the Council of Europe specifically asked for it. I think there is one thing that is very clear here, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has uncontestedly accepted the European agenda, is doing this exclusively declaratively and is not the essence of accepting European pathways and European values to do everything and unconditionally what it requires, for example. Council of Europe. So you as a minister had to warn that this proposal, as it is, should actually protect the alarmers, and the alarmers themselves are against it. We have 91 alarmers in Serbia who claim that this proposal, as it is, does not protect them to a sufficient extent. Then, "Transparent Serbia" which made outstanding comments on this proposal is also against it. The Anti-Corruption Agency is against it. All this is not in line with the action plan to fight corruption. The NGO sector is against it. Everyone in Serbia is against it, but it is important that the Council of Europe commended you and patted you on the shoulder by saying that it should be done, and you accepted it unconditionally. No, that does not mean fighting for European values and for the European path. You must explain that it is not those who will live in Serbia, but that this proposal is put to a vote because of the alarmers themselves who oppose this. I think it's a very important thing for you to take into account the interests of people living in Serbia in each future, not just what someone tells you you have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14099	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14100	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with the distinguished predecessor in that he should not listen blindly to everything being said and that he should be interpreted in the context of the relations that exist in the Republic of Serbia. But I also have to add that when someone tries to quote me or to call for my explanation in a particular matter, it should be correct to the end and say that this definition is made in this way on the recommendation of the Council of Europe, and based on the previously given opinion of the European Court of Human Rights in the subject matter of alarming. Whoever knows it and thinks it that way knows it next. Every law we bring here is applied by our judicial authorities and our state bodies. In the event of a dispute, there is a possibility of exhausting legal protection from our judicial authorities. When this kind of legal protection is exhausted, and the citizen is not satisfied again, he addresses the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights made it very clear, I quoted it two days ago, to which is the status of alarmers. So, he's not here to talk about whether any of us likes or dislikes, likes or dislikes some European norm, some standard or some recommendation. We should try to pass laws, normally, that are imperative, which are in line with our constitutional legal system, but since we are signatories of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, our laws are in accordance with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. It is this standard that is in line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and the Council of Europe's recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14101	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14102	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to say that quite these terms, related to "employer" or anything else, are somewhat unfortunate, because it is difficult to translate in the right way in Serbian, but the term "employer" which in law is far better than what is proposed by the amendment to be an organisation. I fully agree with the argument that the term "organisation" introduced total legal confusion, because it is well stated here to take the company under the term "organisation". Second, when you say organization, then you can think of a lot of things. Say, you have a terrorist organization, or a criminal organization. You certainly cannot imply this by the term “employer, ” which is clearly indicated and defined here. It's far better what's proposed by law than, let's say, if we put "organization," then everyone could think of anything. I hope the gentleman across the street doesn't think of anything like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14103	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Selakovic, we are actually proposing to this amendment a higher level of alarmer protection compared to what is foreseen by the bill. I simply can't believe that in the Council of Europe, someone would mind us predicting the laws of a higher level of protection, and I'm quite certain that we would be against predicting a lower level. A team before, that many other countries that are members of the Council of Europe have laws that predict exactly the level of protection that we are trying to provide here. If you are talking to any international institution, you may explain a little of the context in which this law is being implemented and the opportunities that exist in our society. I believe that they would find understanding of why we need a higher level of alarming than in Norway. Imagine now a hypothetical situation where someone wants to report something and hears a sentence in which I think there is almost no citizen who tried to point to corruption he hasn't heard, which is – thinks a little about having children as well. These kids don't work in an organization where a potential alarmer works, they work in another organization, and the one someone wants to point out that there was corruption or any breach of regulations, there's a way for these kids to, say, take revenge, or a situation in which, say, hypothetically, some councilman wants to report that the SNS is putting pressure on him to move on to another board club. He doesn't work in SNS, he doesn't work in the congregation of the municipality, the city hall, it doesn't matter, but it's obvious that SNS has a way to shine on him and his connected faces, etc. I'm not saying this by heart. I think there have been cases like this all over Serbia. Please consider that we will implement this law on social occasions and in a context where there is a need for a higher level of alarm protection than the Council of Europe may see, and in the light of the law, you say there are no relevant EU rules to ensure compliance with. I don't see why the Council of Europe that came into existence with the aim of protecting human rights would mind if we provided a higher level of human rights than those that, minimum, they require. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14105	By amendment, Aleksandra Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14106	Thank you, Your Honor. We've heard from the amendment's applicants that they're looking for a higher level of protection against the alarms, and that's what's standing. But the alarmers are also protected by this law as well as the Public Information Act, as well as the Public Procurement Act, which was adopted by the SNS and the SNS advocated and accounted for with corruption in our country. But from which party, or subject of the amendment comes, let's say, a proposal to protect yourself more, to protect the higher level of alarmers, just from where we've come to the data and here there is, I have to show you, handling the president of one party as a condition for business. Says anthropologist Marija Vivod, as an unemployed science doctor in February, competed in the "Right on First Chance", the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development in Novi Sad. In April, it was reported that her candidacy for a project to lead a year was accepted. It was then called on from 13 other unemployed science doctors, on May 15th, in the middle of the campaign ahead of the runoff for the Vojvodina Assembly and the second round of presidential elections, to come to the signing ceremony and to shake hands with the doctor, or the president of the party that already proposes the amendment. I asked the secretary to accept my contract in a less formal atmosphere. I was formally told that the contract would be sent to me by mail, and later I was also told that because of my not showing up all the rights under this action are abolished. Because someone didn't shake hands before the election with Dr. Bojan Pajtic, that someone didn't get a job, that science doctor in the Republic of Serbia didn't get a chance to work, and now comes from the party's proposal to raise the level of alarming. The Serbian Progressive Party advocates and fights that every doctor, every man who has graduated from the university or high school in our school, first of all gets a job thanks to the reforms implemented by Aleksandar Vukic, and even if he notices some irregularities, and even if it comes from the government, led by the SNS, can freely report and be protected by law, because this is the only time that we can never return to such a time and such a situation in which handling the president of a party guarantees you a job in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14107	Borislav Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14108	You see, first of all, that's not true. At first, that's not true. So, as true as it is - the honorable word of the esteemed Mr. Jovičić is so honorable and so is my word. I claim that that is not true, but if you understand that we are entering a period of life in Serbia in which many, and already write to the Democratic Party, how many buses had to enter, from how many Leagues and Ub and other places to go to Obrenovac to welcome Prime Minister Vukic, not under threat of losing his job, but to be maximumly chicanated. You know how many letters we get from citizens? Who, by chance, did not bring some kids out to wave flags when the prime minister arrived. What are you talking about handling? Well, people have to take children to the streets for the Serbian prime minister. Do you know what happens there to that person who didn't do it? Or who doesn't respond to the forced labor sought by Minister Vulin? Do you know what's going on in Serbia? You're talking about an anonymous application or not anonymous, I apologize, report one woman, an educated woman, who, all right, claims that because she didn't shake hands, she didn't get a job. Well, I'm telling you, thousands of Serbian citizens will be out of work only if they don't get on a bus in Ljig or Ubb to go meet the prime minister in a third place. And everyone knows that in Serbia. The same weight, the same degree of justice and proof is my claim. Absolutely the same. You want names and last names? And if I give you names and last names, what happens to these people? So let me give it to you so you can chicanate them. If you were to fire them, so I'm really sorry, I have to use the term, we didn't exactly fall off a pair of promotional gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14109	I ask the Members of Parliament to return to the subject. All right, I'll give you a replica. I only appeal that this does not lead to the work of the congregation now, but we will now bicker and cite examples that have happened or have not happened, we will resolve it in another way. This law will allow it to be resolved in an adequate manner. So please, yes, I'll give you the replica, but I simply urge that we go to the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14110	Thank you, Your Honor. You've been calling for some names for a long time. I'm asking you to give us those names, see who these people are, what they say, black on white. As far as the bus was concerned, when Sabac was defended, when cities were defended against an elemental disaster, at the invitation of Alexander Vukic, the citizens entered the buses to defend their country. But, I wonder, who would get on your bus? Your bus went downhill a long time ago, and we're not going to let that bus that got in the way, take a look at Serbia now, because you want to bring destabilisation into our country. Now that you mention those names, here, I have one name, since you say we don't rule with arguments and facts. Mrs. Bojana Borkorov at the Institute of Oncology, she was fired in Vojvodina, only because she did not shake hands, or agreed with the policy of that doctor, or the president of your party. That's another name. You name at least two names, and we'll say we're two or two. It's been like this for two -- zero, Mr. Stefanovic. I ask you to state the facts, not to intimidate the public and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because this is the Government and this is the Government that wants to make a improvement for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we have seen the time since 2008, which means not to fight, according to the greater protection of the alarming party, but to make a strategy for how corruption has reigned in our country. Unlike you, this government has also adopted an Action Plan to fight corruption and the 2013-2018 Strategy, also to fight corruption, and you have only adopted strategies to speed up, increase corruption, as much as you put more money in your own pockets, that is, your own pockets. Against such a Serbia at that time, we are fighting and we are convinced that we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14111	Mr. Granny, on what grounds? (Zoran Babiæ, from place: Replica, by amendment, whatever.) If it's an amendment, I need to know. (Zoran Babic, from the post: By amendment. ) According to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14112	Mr. Chairman, the data that my esteemed colleague, Mr. Jovicic, provided are data from the website "the whistle". You can't, on the one hand, when the criticism comes to the government, use that website and use that data and say they're real, and then when they bring out the valid and true data that for the employment of a doctor, science in the AP Vojvodina's condition was handling Bojan Pajtic, you say it's fiction. What's a "gun" for DS? Is it fiction or truth? If it's true, then we'll believe everything that's written. If it's a fabrication, then we'll say it's all a fabrication. You can't hold fire and water in one hand. You can't treat one thing from both the position of truth and the position of falsehood. I am sure that the data presented by Mr. Jovicic is true, that they are not alone, unfortunately, and that there are many examples of such mobbing in Serbia by Bojan Pajtic and AP Vojvodina. As far as these buses, bus stops, I just wonder – and who forced people in Serbia to go to the polls in March this year? Who forced them to hold hands to round the list under the regular number of one Alexander Vukić "The Future of which we believe" and free can now be turned around, free someone wants to put their fingers in their ears and not hear? Who, then, who made these people believe in reform, believe in a more just, normal, decenter Serbia built by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, built by the SNS? I find it a bit strange and what I couldn't understand, which is that the amendment promoter quite accepted the policy and vocabulary of the party of the new coalition partner in the AP Vojvodina, which is the vocabulary and policy of Mr. Tintore's party, which somehow supports Mr. Pajtic by noon, votes for the reconstructed government of the AP Vojvodina, and then goes to the airport to be on the welcoming committee. I don't know where he's gonna be or where he's gonna end up tonight. What comes from the Council of Europe is now criticised, the communication the government of the Republic of Serbia has with Brussels and a common one policy and common vision of Serbia as a country in the future, and I believe it will be the next star on the EU flag. We are proud of this communication, no matter how much one of the amendment's proposings wants to devastate it. We are proud of the agreement that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic promised, and this morning, and made with the IMF, which the former regime had driven out of Serbia so that it could introduce a complete financial indiscipline, so that it could bring public finances to the situation in which we found it in 2012, and we found the liquidity of the 15-day budget. Respected Serbian citizens, 15 days in 2012, is the former regime, those who now take care of the buses, and I believe that, as my colleague Jovicic said, I do not believe that one with its supporters and such policy could be charged, the former regime left the money in public finances for half the pension, for half the doctor's salary, for half the teacher's salary, for half the policeman's salary. For this reason, the IMF was expelled, instead of serving to build roads and corridors, schools and kindergartens, for the salaries of professors, teachers and teachers and doctors, served as an election campaign, they served to spend without any control for any other purpose. I would have corrected Mr Bozovic, and two days ago and today he said, 91 alarmers in Serbia. That's not true. There's no warning degree, there's no alarm school. The SNS wants to animate, encourage and make an agreement on the wider front in the fight against corruption. The fight against corruption is not just about state authorities, it's not just the police, the judiciary, the judiciary. In this way, we want to animate hundreds of thousands, millions of people living in Serbia, that every attempt at corruption they see, which they see, or which they are exposed, that they do not need courage, but responsibility, that they report it, and that this law on the protection of alarmers, the state gives them a hand, gives them an agreement, that the fight against corruption is a common policy of the citizens of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this assembly majority. As a result, we do not have 91 alarms, I believe that we have six million and many thousands, hundreds of thousands of people in Serbia who are potential alarmers, because they trust the Government of the Republic of Serbia and because they trust this law that is not a law on courage, it is the law on responsibility and the law on the agreement of the Government and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14113	Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds. Replica, please. I ask you to complete the circle of replicas and move on to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14114	Mr. Chairman, when you let the majority leader speak according to the amendment, he would have at least tried one sentence to talk about the amendment, not like this. Let me tell you, first of all, no one forced Serbian citizens to come out in March and give a magnificent victory to the SNS, that's not true. You have certain people who force people to come out and vote for you, determine. In Vorbas, you kidnapped a man and put him in the room... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: What is this way, what are you doing? [[off microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14115	Well, that's the way, because you insult the dignity of the Assembly and I ask you to return to your agenda. You have a replica, replicate Mr. Babic's exposure, but don't insult this assembly. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: So I replicate. I'll have to clear the list to give my word again. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14116	I think it's scandalous how you behave, Mr. Chairman. What was offensive about the congregation here?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14117	Your sentences you've spoken. Don't rephrase with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14118	It doesn't make sense to turn off my microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14119	You have Mr. Babic, replicate his exposure, don't insult him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14120	Let me tell you, there are, in a normal tone, I'm telling you, an absolutely general known thing in Serbia. In each election, people are organized, they go to these places, some of them commit acts of violence. These people are led by Mr. Veselinović and Mr. Andrej Vukic and others. Everyone in Serbia knows that. Now you're saying I'm insulting this assembly. So do not insult us when you say: the people are magnificent, on their own, without pressure and voting. That's not true. I'll believe that when that wish and the rest of them arrest the organs and put them in jail, who took the man in Vorbas and kidnapped him. You know that, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14121	You know very well that you make up Mr. Stefanovic, you make it up, you insult the dignity of the Assembly. Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic. Replica, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: The Rules of Procedure are now everyone. ) Mr Stefanovic, allow the Assembly to continue the work. I see you're nervous, please allow the Assembly to continue its work. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: The Rules of Procedure are all sought. Rules of Procedure. You will receive a warning because you do not allow the congregation to continue working. Here you go, Mr. Granny. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Pavicevic, you know very well when to give someone the word that must speak, and then you will get the word after the presentation. (Vesna Martinovic, from the place: Take a look at this side too, not just there. ) Mrs. Martinovic, don't throw away. Here you go, Mr. Granny. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14122	You want to provide me with Mr. Chairman with conditions that I can speak normally and if you can only ensure that the time spent to calm down the nervous MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14123	Sign up again, Mr. Granny. You need to re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14124	Well, I can't if I'm already in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14125	I know, but the system's blocked. Take out your card and log in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14126	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not see the anxiety of colleagues, the leader of the minority, is whether, because I think that anxiety is the product of what he called for in the same election campaign, and what didn't work, and I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of the words of Mr Stefanovic, that if he didn't win his option, that in Serbia he was calling on the Ukrainian script, that in Serbia he was calling on the Bosnian script, that in Serbia he was calling for new divisions, new conflicts, new victims, that he was calling for the breaking of our cities, municipalities, villages, that he was calling for new divisions, new broken heads. Is it because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course, did not believe in such a policy and gave their own court on the policy, and now a question mark is being raised over the elections. It is likely that, according to the minority leader, it is likely that the elections should be abolished as early as 2008, in 2010, likely to declare the Democratic Party's eternal power, appoint some major MPs, senior presidents, and thus live in the benefits of the authorities. The Serbian Progressive Party and then when we had hundreds of thousands of people who came here dissatisfied with the Democratic Party's policy after those 5 February and 16 April 2011, one single plastic bottle did not remain. The youth led by Mr. Jovicic also picked up the last glass because they love their country, because they love their city, because they love Serbian citizens, because we will never expose such things to Serbian citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14127	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14128	... Unlike you, and for this reason, the court has given you citizens of Serbia. (Borislav Stefanovic, with the current address: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14129	You have the possibility of a replica. Do you want a replica, or do you want a Rules of Procedure? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: I want to. ) Do you want to follow the Rules of Procedure immediately? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: No, according to the Rules of Procedure. It's okay. Only if you'll allow me, be careful... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: "I won't allow it." Don't throw it away. I asked Mr. Stefanovic something, I didn't ask you anything. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Stefanovic, you can see now the reason why I interrupted your exposure. We heard Mr. Babic speak carefully. Mr. Babic spoke of politics, of the former regime, of no individual... (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: about cleaning up.) Don't throw it away, please. There is no individual who has no ability to defend himself in this congregation called out, so I ask you not to let people who do not have the opportunity to defend themselves in the National Assembly talk about politics, talk about what you think was bad, or bad right now, but do not mention individuals who cannot defend themselves in the National Assembly. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Bojan Pajtic. That's the difference between the talker Babic and you. Thank you. Janko Veseninović, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You must have the card again. Because a large number of MPs are reporting and blocking the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14130	Article 106. Rules of Procedure. Dear Chairman, you entered the hall at the moment while the president of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, Mr Babic, spoke for ten minutes about everything and everything, except for an amendment that was on the agenda. He has now completed the story of activities of the youth of SNS, collecting, recycling bottles, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14131	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please? By what member?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14132	I said 106 at the beginning. At that moment, I warned the chairman that he was obliged to interrupt the speaker and talk about the subject. He said let go. Afterwards, the opposition speaker who wanted to talk about the subject and in some ways referred to Mr Babic's exposure was unable to get a word in, and what does that mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14133	Mr. Veselinović, you're a Democratic Party lawyer, don't I understand now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14134	What are you, Mr. Becic? And what are you? Are you the chairman or the spokesman of the SNS?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14135	I beg you, they have enough MPs in the O.R. that if they feel that their injured Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14136	Do I have the right to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman, regardless of which injury was committed? It's about the collapse of this National Assembly. What do you ask me who I am, am I a lawyer, a lawyer, or am I a notary, one of your notaries?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14137	I'm sure you're not a lawyer. I thank Mr. Veselinovic. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (No) I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14138	I thank the chairman. You've violated article 107 on several occasions. First of all, when you took away Mr. Stefanovic's word in one minute and twenty seconds of his exposure, you told him that his exposure was over and you didn't let him finish. On the other hand, when you mentioned, that is, when you didn't mention our colleagues across the street who spoke about various attacks, about various crimes and misdeeds committed by the Democratic Party, which was the answer to the question asked by Mr Stefanovic regarding the specific names and last names of Danil Bobic and Ines Travica from Vrbasa, which were during...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14139	You have to explain to me how I hurt the Rules of Procedure? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Here I speak. () By mentioning again the names of people who cannot defend themselves in the National Assembly? Please don't do this. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: You did not understand me, let me finish. Here you go. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14140	Thank you. We defend these people. We don't attack them so they can't defend themselves. No, we're defending them. That's one thing. The third time you violated article 107 when you allowed the president of the duchy government, Dr. Bojan Pajtic, Professor Bojan Pajtic, the president of Serbia's largest opposition party, to treat himself and express himself with a series of lies and just to tell you one thing, why did I report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to this third one? I mention it for the simple reason that one hysteria was made in society, where someone who listens to this, this kind of untruth and reads it all in some tabloids, you put a professor. Bojan Pajtic is in danger of life and you're jeopardizing his safety, because this is the way, this hack is the way to do it. I ask you to warn those who do so daily in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14141	But, Mr. Bozovic, for this very reason, I tried to influence Mr. Borislav Stefanovic, not to mention names in this assembly. I've heard since I entered the O.R. many times in a negative context and word and last name and name of the Prime Minister, his brother and everything. I think it's scandalous to mention the prime minister's family in such a way and to mention people who can't defend themselves in the Serbian Parliament. I ask you to try, all the MPs, to mention the names in such a way, and it is normal that at this point in speaking of a party's policy, it must be mentioned by the party's president. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14142	Mr. Becic, I'm advocating a violation of article 127. Rules of Procedure. Please show me where it says in the Rules of Procedure that people who are not present are not allowed to be mentioned. In doing so, you are saying that it is incorrect for anyone to do so, and you interrupt only the MPs of the opposition when they do, and then Mr Babic talks about whoever he wants for 10 minutes, whatever he wants, in whatever way he wants, and you do not only allow Mr Babic to do so, but to all MPs of power. This is Mr Babic, criticising the SRS as a godless coalition partner of DS in Vojvodina, forgets that he has been criticising his coalition partner in Titell since yesterday. Perhaps Mr Tintor only wanted to prevent the SNS from kidnapping power through corruption and in Vojvodina, just as they did in all other municipalities in Serbia, where they lost in the elections. But, no, this is allowed to Mr Babic, because obviously in this assembly something is allowed for all, and the MPs of the opposition are not allowed absolutely anything, and even if they don't mention the prime minister and his brother, who are not interested in us at all in the light of what his brother is, but obviously as the prime minister's brother has some rights that other citizens are not allowed to do, which is the duty of the opposition party to do. If you do not allow the mention of the young DS who have been beaten in the SNS rooms in Vrbas, because they are not here, then do not let them mention these women who, as they did not shake hands with Pajtic, have not received projects because it is the same principle. Please, just to figure out the way we're going to work and ask that it applies to everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14143	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. You just said everything in your explanation. I don't have any comment. You said I didn't say names can't be mentioned in the Rules of Procedure. You said that I just asked that it wasn't correct to mention names. You see how I didn't interrupt you because you didn't mention names, because I find it ugly to mention people who can't defend themselves here. Miss Jerkov, do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, Minister Selakovic, the honored guests, I have reported on the amendment. Please give me your word to speak by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14145	If there's no one on the other base, here's the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14146	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe this debate that we have had in the past hour on the amendment to Article 2. A bill on the protection of alarms is the best proof that this is an incomplete bill. Be careful, Article 2 of this Bill refers to the meaning of certain terms. We have an hour to discuss what it means. This means that within this bill we do not have clearly defined basic terms and categories. Then how can we even talk about adopting this as a law? There are two things I want to make here as two additional arguments that this amendment should be accepted, and that the whole bill on this amendment should be withdrawn. I refer here to a part of the debate Mr. Babic participated in. For example, on the occasion of this amendment, Mr Babic called for one of the positions of a citizens association that communicates its views via its portal, the site is called "Pistalska", where Mr Babic, for example. said that what Mr. Jovicic was saying was true, and Mr. Jovičić called for information on the website "Pistalska". This website "Pistelska", the people who write there, they, to remind you, told you about this bill, including this amendment, participated in the writing of the amendment, they announced that this bill was not right. This was announced by the citizens' association "Pistalska", which Mr Babic is calling here. Dear Mr Babić and Becic, I ask you to decide here whether "Pistel" is a relevant source of information, attitudes and analysis or not, because if it is a relevant source, then here today we must act as a legislative body, uniquely to oppose one bad bill, gentlemen. The second thing, regarding this amendment, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, is that I have read and explained why the amendment is rejected. In this amendment, for example, I am not going to read whole, since it is large, it is proposed in points 1 and 2 to supplement the contents in points 1 and 2. What coin? Coin - done in accordance with this law. So, the applicants of the amendment, in this case our colleagues and colleagues from the DS, believe it is very important to add coins after the comma - done in accordance with this law. In an explanation of why this amendment is rejected, Mr. Becic and the other gentlemen, the following says - the amendment is not accepted, so it is referencing to this part, for the reason that the right to protection depends on whether the alert is carried out in a manner prescribed only by the draft law, but also by other laws. It is said here that we must bear in mind that there are some other laws that are contained in the contents of this bill. Then what did the applicants of the amendment say? They announced - okay, let's add: "made in accordance with this law" because the assumption that the content of this law is in line, above all, with the content of other laws concerning this area. Minister Selakovic responds to this amendment for why he refuses to say it – if we put a coin: "in accordance with this law", this puts us in a position that this law will be inconsistencies with other laws concerning the same area. What does Mr. Selakovic tell us then? That if we respect this law consistently, and we do so by putting it into the law: “in accordance with this law, ” it will be in line with some other laws concerning this area. I conclude, gentlemen, that Mr Selakovic here tells us that if in one draft of the law there is coin: "in accordance with this law", that it can create a kind of legal disorder, because if we respect this law, it will be in breach of the respect of the other law. I wonder, then, if the Minister of Justice orders here – it is a possible legal mess, how can we expect any person to appear as an alarmer in our country, in our society when they are told to do so – we are in a legal mess? Not to refer to other examples that may serve as an obstacle to alarmers, like some cases of beatings. What can be done is the withdrawal of this law. The government in resignation could do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14147	The word has been given by MP Aleksandar Jovicic, authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14148	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, during the presentation of the predecessors, I often worry about his health from so many emotions as he speaks, nothing wrong. On the other hand, the previous speaker said "Pistalska" criticised the law. The "Pistel" took part in the creation of this law and we are very proud to be prepared to make any law in our country that guarantees the improvement of our citizens' lives, that we speak together, not only with the "Pistol", but with all relevant factors that can contribute to making the laws as good as possible, and the practice itself will show what the shortcomings are, so we will change them. As for the source of “Pistols, ” why do you feel that this is not true? If not, is it true that the source of the "Pistols" is the truth, Dr. Bojana Bokorov, who expressed her position as being chicanned by individual owners in Vojvodina. A woman who was fired just because she disagreed with Bojan Pitiæ. The previous speaker is obviously a DS lawyer, and that's certainly what he deserved by the very fact that he had to support that party in order to get over the censorship, so let's defend that particular party a little bit. Once again, to every mention that anyone has beaten or beaten up some young people in Vorbas, I want you to react because it's not true. The SNS has never used these methods. The SNS never bought any sugar, no liter of oil, or flour to win the election. The Serbian Progressive Party of Elections only gets the truth it tells the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the measures we are carrying out to make future generations live better, because we believe Serbia deserves it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14149	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. (Zoran Babic, from the site: Replica. Mr. Granny, neither can you and Mr. Jovicic. (Zoran Babic, from the scene: 10 times he mentioned me personally. I can, if it's on your personal mention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14150	I thank you, Mr. Becic. What I'd like to say to you is that I'm proud when four MPs from the former regime mention me four or five times in their presentations. To me, it is pride and confirms the truthfulness and weight of the words that I speak in the National Assembly. I believe that the first part of Mr Pavicevic's presentation and the criticism he wanted to pass on to the SNS is, in fact, the range of the criticism of Mr Pavicevic is much shorter, ends up on the first benches in front of Mr Pavicevic, on the coalition partners of Mr Pavicevic, because the "Pistelska" site was consulted during the formation and the creation of this law, we accepted suggestions. One thing remains unclear, and you have to admit that when all of this comes down to one single thing, then it is a lack of understanding put to a minimum and that this criticism that Mr Pavicevic has sent, in fact, to the DS whose time “Pistel” is relevant, and the hour is not relevant, the hour is relevant if it is a criticism of the Government, and it is not relevant if it is handling Bojan Pajtic. What is important for the SNS, which is important for the government of the Republic of Serbia, as we have called for, according to Mr Selakovic, and the Anti-Corruption Agency, did not consider it important to participate in the drafting of this law, so they were consulted and colleagues from "Transparency of Serbia" participated in the task force. No one has...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14151	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14152	... An exclusive and exclusive right to be a resuscitator, so it overwrites what someone else wrote. With representatives of "Transparency of Serbia", my colleague Jovicic and I spoke on several occasions, so I think the criticism of Mr Pavicevic has failed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14153	The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I would like to say three things here for Mr. Babic's replica, first of all, and then Mr. Jovicic. I've been resented here for an energy that I'm investing in debates in the National Assembly. I think, gentlemen, it's worth the commendation when someone is heartily fighting for some system of ideas, ideals, values, opinions in this National Assembly, and especially when that heart, respected gentlemen, is directed towards some justice and justice. I try to work that way in this National Assembly. Another thing, gentlemen, Mr. Jovicic here called for the attitudes of people who write for the portal "Pistaljka". Mr Babic, here earlier in his speech, again referred to the attitudes of those people who write for "Pistal", and I remind you, gentlemen, that on the portal "Pistal" you can read the attitude of these same people about this Code on the Protection of Alarmers. What is the attitude of these people? That this is one incomplete, so a bad bill that offers no protection, but half-protection to people who might report as alarmers. Plus, respected gentlemen, Mr Babic says the Anti-Corruption Agency has not found it appropriate to address and advertise, and I have read the very basic opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency on this bill, where it says this is an unacceptable bill. I thought, gentlemen, given this argument that I had previously mentioned about the introduction of a legal disorder, that the only thing that is appropriate in this situation is that this bill is withdrawn and that would be proof that something good can be done by the government in resignation, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14155	Mr Pavicevic, I assume the MPs were only told because you are very inspired and loud, and you do not notice. We hear well, don't worry. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: You say you do not hear, so I must speak louder.]] (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: Replica. Replica? Since Mr. Babic called, there's only one who can get a replica. (Zoran Babic, from the scene: he mentioned both of them. He can't answer just one if he mentions both of us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14156	This is another proof of the previous speaker in the manner he reads something, but nowhere to read it. We have read here, here you have proof of e-mails, correspondences and answers from the Secretariat in the AP Vojvodina that this correspondence looked like, as someone demanded someone had to come and shake hands, anyway, if it wasn't working they wouldn't get a job. As we heard just before the leader, let's say, the opposition in this House that there are thousands of names, none we've heard, we're handling arguments here. On the other hand, as regards "Pistols", and we will close the story, "Pistol" supported this law with one suggestion. It's not true what the previous speaker said. We have had constructive conversations, we have observed all the facts that have been presented and that will help make this law better, easier in application itself, and any flaw that may eventually occur in the future can be made to amend and supplement the law itself. We don't run away from that, but don't, please, you who are on the list of those who have never tried, in any way, to deal with corruption, on one hand, or to protect those who would report that corruption, that you are now saying that the law is not adequate, that it will not contribute to a better, etc. It's hypocritical. This law protects every man, every employee, volunteer, anyone who interns in a company, whether in the public or private sector, that he can report corruption and be protected by the law, that he will not suffer the consequences of the cancellation, the reduction of wages, the inability to advance or any other kind of retribution. We are proud that this is, in a way, the control of the work of the government itself and local self-government and public enterprises, because that is the only way we can guarantee a fair, fair and successful Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14157	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. Replica, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14158	That's where our policies differ. A little while ago, something was said as an argument why this law should be withdrawn, which is that in this way, it's the real half-protection of alarmers. I see by noding my head that it confirms such a thing, better semi-protection than no protection, as it has been so far. Better half to be protected than never protected, like your coalition partners did. And not only did they not protect these people, but they put them on a pillar of shame. These people were not ordinary citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but were placed on the pillar of shame by those honest officers, and judges, and prosecutors, all those who tried to wait in Agrobank, who tried to stay in the Vojvodine Development Bank, who tried to stay in the Vojvodina Development Fund. Everywhere you smudged and greased, where they tried to do something they were placed on a pillar of shame. Justice reform left them out of work. These are the people you want us to go back to, instead of half-protecting, using your argument, we get no protection, go back to the way things were. Oh, he can't. Better and semi-protection than no protection, and the atmosphere of fear and savageness of corruption we had until 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14159	Thank you, Mr. Babic. Replica, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. This closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Becic, Honored Minister Selakovic and Honored gentlemen of the Ministry, three are now the things I must say here for the new line, Mr. Babic and Jovic and you, Mr. Becic. You resent me here for speaking a little louder, for example, having to react here. There's a professor in front of me who's a hearing pathology teacher. He tells me that this performance of mine, the way I speak, is perfectly fine and appropriate. Please report to Dr. Milisavljevic for all possible problems if you have any connection to my speech. The expert says, well done. The second thing, all that was said here and what Mr. Babic said, and what Mr. Jovicic mentioned is Mr. Becic's confirmation that this is a bad bill. Mr. Jovičić, for example, says this – well, if there is a failure. Dear Mr. Becic, so give us time to change. Well, I guess our idea here is that when a bill comes up, that this proposal should be the best at the moment, not that we should adopt a half-assed proposal with the knowledge that in two months, as we did with the notaries, and yet we haven't done well, we have to change it, gentlemen. We're not going to agree here to adopt bad bill proposals, or what Mr. Babic said, I understood it so now, let Mr. Babic correct me if I didn't get it right. Mr. Babic said – so what if even half-protection for alarmers is provided, and that's good. It means that Mr. Babic, as far as I understand it, this is a semi-protection of alarmers, and I guess our idea, gentlemen, is that the alarms be absolutely or completely protected, not that we provide them with half-protection here, respected Mr. Becic. I can never get involved in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14161	Time. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Replica, Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14162	Mr. Chairman, I don't understand how the previous speaker got on the list of parties where the alarmers didn't have any protection? How could he, and knew when he went to that list, in previous elections that the party had never taken care of alarmers, that the party had always accelerated corruption in our country, that it had destroyed numerous privatisations, that it had sold out everything that was worth it in this country, and now this great urge, this emotion, to fully protect alarmers. That means that this is an abuse, that this is demagogy, self-relamming, or whatever we call it, because if we cared about it, you might be involved in politics a lot earlier, when you could point out that. However, because of your regional participation in politics as in Montenegro, then in the Liberal Democratic Party, etc. You didn't have time, and even when you were doing that, you didn't fight at all to reduce corruption in this country. Instead, you came better on the list of that party, which is by all standards, both global and European, which was best felt by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, was the leader of corruption in our country. You're a little in college. On the one hand, you're on the list of the party that lived in corruption, and on the other hand, you're in favour of large-scale protection. I said, any law can be better in some segment, we'll only see when that law applies, and unlike the list you're on, we want this law to be brought back to life as soon as possible, so that we can leave our citizens the country they deserve, a country that doesn't have as much degree of corruption as it did by 2012. I hope we keep doing that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14163	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. That closes the circle of replicas, or I'll take a break. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Pavicevic, no one mentioned you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14164	It's a good thing there's an expert in hearing pathology. It's good. I welcome an esteemed colleague, but this hearing pathology needs to determine whether anyone hears both himself and those who speak to him well, not to understand what he wants. More importantly, it hears Serbian citizens. What the SNS was saying and what it's saying, it speaks well, not of cheerleading passions and hatred that comes so firmly from the other side. I've got a copy in my hand of the Pistol portal. The only thing that exists on the whistle site is what I hold in my hand. No spectacular announcements by the speaker who so loudly announced, as was Mr. Minister, and that notary that earned 180,000 euros, so we still haven't heard the name of that notary. Now he said he wrote something on the website, and here's what it says. Just what I told you before and what Mr. Selakovic announced, it is that he was handed over, one directed, one amendment. It's about Article 20, and as we said, we have a misunderstanding about one thing and these are the people from the website "Pistels" and published it. Where's what the previous speaker was talking about, so spectacularly? Where's that name for a notary that makes 180,000 euros? Where is Mr. Zivkovic's resignation? Where is all that they promised and what they announced, all these months and weeks since the constitution of the congregation? Not what there is and what every MP of the people has, according to the Constitution, can be used to tell lies, to tell lies, for some petty political points.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14165	After we have closed the circle of replicas, according to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. You don't have a chance to replicate. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Pavicevic, Mr. Babic spoke about the previous speaker, but as far as I know, the previous speaker was Mr. Jovicic. You mentioned Mr. Babic and Mr. Jovicic's names, so you don't have a chance. Break three minutes. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word is from MP Vladimir Djukanovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14167	Thank you, Your Honor. If you can just secure order. Please give me my time back. Okay. Let me tell you something, let's get back to the amendment. I think it'd be far more directional. We've established, there's short legs in a lie. I'm someone who, very often, uses, reads what is published by "Pistol". I don't rarely agree with these people, but I can't blame them for anything, because sometimes they warn us at SNS as the ruling coalition that we have certain people who are prone to corruption and thank them for that. To be honest, you can't say that they had some objection when people submitted one single amendment, and on the other hand, when we talk about the Anti-Corruption Agency, so I said the minister refused to participate in the draft of the law, which is very important for the public, and I'm going to keep insisting, let's say, because it's very important, and I think some alarmer from that agency might tell us how they bought the building? How did the Anti-Corruption Agency get the building it's in today? To return to the amendment itself. If there were alarming and alarming, I believe that some things would never have happened to us, not like "Agrobanka", not "Universal" banks, nor would such privatisations have happened to us, nor would the amazing things have happened to us, precisely which "Pistalska" published, that even 12 DS donors, who had been placed on their site, of which half of them ended a year with a loss. I'll read it to you from that site, I've had a terrible eye burning, says – one of the biggest DS donors is definitely the biggest loser among them, the Belgrade Intelcon company, which deals with cable communications, owned by the Cypriot firm Emar limitid, Intelcon was founded the day after the election was called 14.03.2008, and the ruling foreigners gave five million dinars in 2012, although the year ended with a loss of the entire 116.379.000 dinars. Really, amazing. If there was an alarmer, the way we define it today, I believe that such a thing would never happen. Of course, people documented it from the Agency for Business Registers. But what I find even more interesting is, let's say, a much bigger loss and a much bigger donation was given by Milinković kop d.o.o. from Ledinac, I am talking about an autonomous province, registered for trade in large, founded in 2.07.2008 with only two employees, who paid as many as six million dinars to the Democrats, even though the year ended with a loss of 3,976,000 dinars. If there was an alarmer, the way the law defines it, and how we're looking for it, I believe this kind of robbery would never have happened, and frankly, I don't know if these companies have failed, but these amazing things we'd never have. I understand them for being against this law. They don't like being alarmed, but don't be complaining about someone here today who's trying to deal with corruption. After all, all, absolutely all the relevant organizations in the world have given us praise for fighting corruption. They put us as a country far bigger than we used to be in the fight against corruption, and I think it's our greatest praise, and I understand them, it was their responsibility for this society to be corrupt to the throat, and I totally understand why they're against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14168	Thank you. The word has been given by the messenger of the people, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm speaking to the other SNS deputies...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14170	You cannot address SNS MPs. You can take me as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14171	... with a request to ignore in some way what the MPs who speak against this amendment say. In fact, the objective of this amendment is to ensure a greater level of protection for people who want to point out some irregularities in their conduct tomorrow. We're proposing an organization, and you think it's your employers. Mr Babic said earlier that it is better to protect half-protection than any protection that has ever been, which is not true first. The alarmers themselves say that the protection they've had so far is better than the one currently foreseen by the bill. It's not true that there wasn't any safety for the fuse. They were under the protection of the Anti-Corruption Agency founded by the democ... In fact, the government run by DS. Probably... As was the case at the time, the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime and the Special Court, etc., probably all in the desire not to fight corruption. [[National Members of the SNS applaud.]] The alarmers themselves say it was better protection than the one they're now offered. Of course, the Anti-Corruption Agency fell into the unrest of the moment when it recommended that the minister of justice be removed from the position he was in, and therefore it is not responsible to perform such tasks as it has done so far, which are the alarmers themselves, but there are 91, I don't know how there are if they didn't exist, as the SNS gentlemen claim. Just for one explanation, please tell me, finally what about the Vojvodine Development Bank, what about the Development Fund, what about the Capital Investment Fund? I believe the SNS gentlemen have some knowledge unknown to the state's authorities. For three years, police have been sitting at the Capital Investment Fund, at the Vojvodine Development Bank, which now turns out to be three billion dinars in plus, and that one bank that is exclusively politically shut down. So if Mr. Babic has any knowledge of crime at the Capital Investment Fund, at the Development Fund, at the New Technology Development Fund should deliver it to the prosecution. We're going to pass a law that we're going to half-protect, not exactly fully protected, but here we guarantee you won't have any problems, just file a report. Stop making political speeches about some god-awful crime. Tell the D.A. Tell the police what you got. Don't let people sit around for three years and explore where they can't find anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14172	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. Mr. Granny, the replica, but I think what's said is true when you give a round of applause, so you don't need a replica on it. Unless you have something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14173	It is a very interesting link between syphon and the funds obtained from the "Fund for the Development of New Technologies". I think the colleague will explain very well and professionally the link between the wastewater syphon and the "Fund for the Development of New Technologies" and in the end, all that bond with pensioners in the AP Vojvodina who received these syphons. I'd really like to get an explanation. On the other hand, when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency, which we have heard, now and publicly created and created DS, you need to be more careful and read the amendment, that the amendment to Article 40 has been accepted. It's a bill to protect alarmers and not to make such flat-rate assessments, not create or create confusion. We'll talk about it when it comes to article 40, with all the Agency's anti-corruption intelligence being kept safe. On the other hand, what's most important and what's crucial in fact is you're boasting 91 alarmers and you think 91 alarmers got atest, a diploma from the Anti-Corruption Agency, made by DS, and that's quite enough. No, it's not enough. This and this law make an agreement, as announced by Justice Minister Mr Selakovic, between the state and all citizens, not 91 alarmers the Anti-Corruption Agency probably kept in that 1,800-square building...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14174	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14175	... No, 1,200 square meters. No, how many squares were there, Mr. Minister, that privatisation agency building? It seems to me that the purchase contract and what the construction profession expert has established disagreed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14176	Time's up. Thank you. Master of Alexandra Jerkov by amendment. (The People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You can only pick up the amendment. (The People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov, from the place: I have no right to a replica, and he wants me to explain it to him.) You can't. You didn't mention it. Are you saying you're finding yourself on the siphon thing, that's where you are? I don't think you have a chance to replicate. Do you want to follow the amendment? (The People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov, from the place: No. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the Honored Guests, are two things that I want to especially point out here, which I consider to be very important, which are in favour of the adoption of this amendment and that the draft law on the protection of alarmers, when we have an amendment to a member on the meaning of the term, is one incomplete bill. First of all, we would like to add in point 1, point 2 of our amendment one coin that reads - made in accordance with this law, in point 1, and in accordance with this law, in point 2. Please, one more time I have to say it here. Mr Selakovic explained why he could not accept such a proposal that he could not accept it because the right to protection depends on whether the alert was carried out in a manner prescribed only by the draft law, but also by other laws. Thus, as I understand it, Mr Selakovic tells us that if in one law it is written – in accordance with this law, it can be in accordance with some other law regarding similar things. Gentlemen, that means a legal mess. The assembly must never participate in the creation of a legal disorder. The second thing, we have suggested to change point 3 that, instead of – employer, the organization writes. Once again, Minister Selakovic explained that "employee" cannot be replaced by the term "organisation" because it would cause confusion in the application of the law. It would not cause confusion, because in our explanation we very precisely state what "organization" means, we explain it very precisely. Please, if the MPs will not accept this amendment, that Mr Selakovic withdraws this bill, this government in resignation can do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14178	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. To Article 2. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And our intention was to explain a little bit better the meaning of the term in Article 2. Thus, this amendment provides for the following words: "disclosure" of information to be added: "made in accordance with this law", in point 2 of the word "own" to be deleted in point 6 after the word "an alarm" is added: "a body which received the information to be alarmed". The proposed amendment in point 1 precisely determines that alerting may be the disclosure of information made only in accordance with this law. Any other disclosure of information, without respect for the procedure laid down by this law, cannot be considered an alert, and thus neither the person who discloses the information can receive neither the status nor the protection of the alarmer. In point 2, by eradicating the word "own" allows the alarmer to execute an alert regarding the employment and employment of other persons, not only in relation to his employment and employment, as set out here in the Bill's proposal. The point of alarming is not that it is done when a person is directly and only threatened or his rights are violated, but is the purpose of alarming the disclosure of information about violations of the rules in order to protect public interest. In point 6, not only is the competent authority responsible for handling information that is being alerted, but every authority that receives the information shall be subject to the powers of the competent authority. In fact, you can't expect citizens to know the authority of the authority. Citizens will very often disclose information to the authorities they think is competent, which does not mean that the authority will also be in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14180	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14181	I'm using the MP's time group. By extending the definition of an authorised authority to authorities receiving information, alerting and alarming rules, they shall also apply to those authorities and provide better data protection. Unfortunately, our proposal was rejected by the government by reason that the amendment would not be accepted for the reason that Article 2. The draft law is part of the introductory law and contains an explanation of the meaning of certain concepts used in the law. We think that our explanations and our clarifications are better than those given in the bill, and I think it would be good for the minister to think again about adopting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14182	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) To Article 2. The amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olga Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14183	Thank you, Your Honor. In fact, I'm this amendment to Article 2. The bill required that Articles 2 and 1 behind the words "information on", they added, "to commit a crime", and in point 7, that, behind the words that you have observed in the explanation, they said that this is a legal-technical problem, and I only think that a typing error was asked to add the words "i.e. the taking over of other behaviors that represent abuse at work, in terms of regulations that regulate the prevention of labour abuse". As regards this first part of Article 2 and point 1, the information on the execution of a criminal offence, I think it is more precise to define this particular position, because when it is said in the explanation that the Government does not accept the amendment for reasons, because the decision in the bill of law is more appropriate and comprehensive, I cannot agree with such a thing, as soon as, in the following sentence, it is added – in the draft law, the violation of the rules marks any kind of illegal, law of prohibited behaviour, and also a criminal act. You see, then the order of the sentence should be different, so it should be put first – a criminal act, because in such a formulation as is set out in a member of that law, which is to reveal information about violations of regulations, violations of human rights, the exercise of public authority against the purpose of which it is entrusted, the dangers of life, public health, safety, the environment, the prevention of the damage of large scales, it all represents the incrimination of already existing, in fact, parts of the incrimination of already existing crimes. That is why I believe that this solution proposed in the amendment was far more complete. As for point 7, behind the disallowed position, that's, of course, what you said was a technical mistake, I'll agree to that. But it's not a technical mistake but it's just a typing error, so it's done and it's listed in an unauthorized position instead of an unfavourable position, but regardless of the fact, I think it should have continued the sentence until the end and, after the point, it's added: "i.e. taking on other behaviors that represent abuse at work, and everything in terms of regulations that regulates the prevention of labour abuse," because in this way and in such a formulation, it expands that it also applies to all those cases that are essentially abuse at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14184	Thank you. Just to ask if you'd like to use the time of the authorized representative? Yeah. ) To Article 2. The amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14185	I thank you, Chairman. The basic motivation of the submission of this amendment by the SPS parliamentary group is, in fact, what is the intensity of the promoter, which is the formation of a larger front, the greater the number of alarmers, the greater the number of persons who will, without fear of being retaliated, or that revenge will be applied to them, be able to provide information about any kind of corruptive action. In a particular situation, the promoter has indeed included those most sensitive categories, the most sensitive situations where indeed and as alarmers must be defined and categorized by persons who are indeed here and mentioned. However, given that each law has its own protected good, given that this law also protects the good protection of alarmers, and especially given that this protection of alarmers is under far more significant protection, which is the fight against corruption that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has consistently conducted, then it would be good to consider that this amendment improves the quality of the proposed text of Article 2 of this Act, given that all the solutions that the promoter has made and adds only one addition, which binds itself to consider alarmers also those who in other situations of alerting are doing when it comes to harming public interest. It's a full definition of a member then, and I think with that definition, this law would gain quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14186	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) The MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14187	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, dear ministers, dear guests, the amendment in Article 3 paragraph 1 is amended and it is said: "It is forbidden to prevent the alarms being carried out in accordance with this law. “ The draft law in Article 2 defines alarming as revealing information on violations of regulations, violations of human rights, public authority against purpose, which is why life threats, public health, safety, environment, as well as the prevention of damage to large scales are entrusted. Accordingly, unless this part of the definition is changed, it shall, within the framework of Article 3, prescribe a ban on the prevention of alerts carried out in accordance with this law. On the other hand, it would not be prohibited to prevent those types of alerts which are contrary to the provisions of this law, which in some cases will be the responsibility of the authorities under other regulations. So, in other words, if you had accepted the previous amendment, such as, of course, you did not, in certain situations even the flat-rate estimates would have been potential by those who brought them up to be enough to get someone's protection as an alerter. Now we're fighting against the fact that the flat-rates, the tabloidization of everything we've been surviving in the last two and a half years, are not subject to protection under this law. We think it's very important, and today we've had the opportunity to just listen to about the flat-rate ratings and the charges, that someone can't just, like the government of Vojvodina, falsely accuse the Prime Minister, the president of another party, while seeking protection under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14188	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister, Mr Selakovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I think we should also focus our attention on this amendment to Article 3. The bill, although this amendment in the context of content, is slightly less significant to me than that of the previous amendment that was rejected. Here's what this is all about, and we explained it in three paragraphs in our amendment. It is that we have a definition of certain terms, meaning of certain terms, and also of the term “excitation”, but our observation was that other provisions of the bill also provide for procedural and real reasons which would provide legal protection for some types of alarm, but not for some. Then we thought that in this one conflict, which is within the law itself, there is something between what is principled character and bringing it down to something that is individual, that we have to be guided by a kind of precision. That is why we have proposed that Article 3 is fine-tuned – it is forbidden to prevent alarms being carried out in accordance with this law. So, then, we are responsible from the Government not to accept the amendment for the reason that the provision of Article 3 paragraph 1 is of principle character, which lays down the rule that alarm prevention is forbidden. We believe, dear Mr Selakovic, that with this amendment of ours, within what is a mild confusion about understanding of certain categories that are basic categories in this bill, we need to introduce absolute clarity. We believe that this way of explaining that the principled character is not mindful to accept and this amendment of ours is for further detail. Thank you, dear Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14190	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14191	Thank you. In fact, I suggested that the word “action” be added to this article: “as well as the threat of a harmful action, or otherwise put into the appearance of a harmful action because of the alarming or the intended alarming. ” I cannot agree that the solution to the bill is more precise and appropriate, or, as it is later said, to prohibit behaviour until it is done. If you meant illegal behavior, then it should have been explicitly stated. If this member stays like this - it is forbidden to take a harmful action, I think that is precisely what it is, and not the amendment, creating conditions for a wide range of abuses of this institute, or alarmer. Because then an analogous question arises – what if you put an alarmer in the face of a threat, and that threat, for example, is serious? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14192	Thank you. On what basis are you answering, Mr. Pavicevic? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: By amendment. You have no right anymore, you've spent your five minutes. Anyone else want a word? (No) The MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14193	Therefore, the amendment submitted by the DS in Article 5(2) is amended as follows: ‘2 shall disclose the information referred to in Article 2 of point 1 of this Act (hereinafter referred to as ‘the information’) immediately after knowledge of the action carried out which alerts are being carried out or after checking the information relevant to the alert, and no later than one year of knowledge of the action and 10 years from the date of execution of that action’. After point 3, we in our amendment have proposed points 4, 5, 6 and 7. Point 4 reads: "According to the alerter’s knowledge, the information is not previously known to the employer, the authorised authority, or the public". Point 5 reads: “He did not seek for himself or another benefit in order not to reveal information. ” Point 6 reads: “he did not make it appear that he would reveal the information if the employer did not make an action unless the request relates to the removal of the illegality or dangers referred to in Article 2(1) of this Act. ” Point 7 reads: “he has not published particularly sensitive personality data which are not relevant for the removal of the illegality or dangers referred to in Article 2(1) of this Act. ” So, briefly, we're here against abuse and that's what we've had a lot of debates in the Committee itself. The proposed amendment allows, therefore, a special mechanism of legal protection, application and in cases where the alert was obviously unconscious. In this way, we just wanted to specify these things and worry about themselves, let's say the promoter, we had a chance to hear that it's potential in the world, that someone would keep their job, that someone would benefit, etc., etc. In that sense, we have proposed this amendment and to be absolutely clear we wanted this way to be completely, to make this proposal complete and to prevent any further abuse by those who would do this thing completely unconsciously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14194	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister, Mr Selakovic, the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, we have submitted and this is our third amendment to Article 5. I believe that this too merits the attention of all the MPs of the people, because in one part, our principled objections to this bill. Our principle observation was to Mr Selakovic, that this bill offered half-protection to the alarmer, and it seems to us that on the basis of the content of Article 5, we can judge that it was indeed a semi-protection, and then we proposed this amendment to supplement Article 5, in order to provide full protection to a person who became an alarmer. The government has refused this amendment to us and explained that it does not accept the amendment for the reason the amendment proposes that alerters be conditioned that it must immediately disclose the information. Look, in this Article 5, we have more attitudes than that member. So I don't accept this argument as having to. He must make a direct statement, therefore, to report the information immediately after the event, but be careful, let me give you an example of the inexorable, but one violent behavior. For example, when a professor, as happened the other day, attacked someone, physically threatened him. We have an example of one violence against one teacher. What is expected of that teacher? He just did. That immediately after carrying out that misdemeanor act, for example, he would go and report it a misdemeanor. I think it's kind of an expectation. From the alarmer, I can't see why he wouldn't be expected to report immediately after he found out what happened here and get that face of proper protection, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14196	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14197	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, we believe that this is the condition of the alarmer, that it must immediately transfer information on the corruption that has been done, I would now ask the applicant of the amendment, which is also the president of the Belgrade City Committee of his party, in a situation in which someone would immediately forward information about the affair, for example. King Alexander's boulevard of sixm euros, or 10m-euro underground containers at the expense of Belgrade's citizens, or the Big Brother's house, which had as its first purpose a haven for unsettled children, and then became the Big Brother's house, from which someone earned a lot of money, or a million-euro ticket tower in New Belgrade, which someone had made, and the president of the City Board watched. Imagine now if that employee had reported it, under such circumstances he would most likely have been fired, was chicanned, had some sort of retribution been done. I think it's important for any kind of corruption to be found out about her the moment the alarmer thinks he's protected, that he can say that without suffering any coincidence. That's why in these legal frameworks we defined it in such a way that the alarmer himself feels what time it is for him, not that someone puts pressure on him, because besides the alarmers in this country there are prosecutors, and the police, and other organs that deal with it daily. An alarmer like a brave man is required to manifest corruption. I believe that if it does so in a year or two, it will certainly mean Serbia, because it will find out something that has happened, as was the case in these affairs of King Alexander, buying foreign buses of 65m euros, underground containers of 10m euros, a bridge on Ada and many of the affairs affecting the city of Belgrade and our citizens. Once word gets out, someone has to answer, as we entered into the process to blame those who did.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14198	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Excuse me, MP, what's your answer? (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: The president of the City Committee is mentioned, and that is me. ) He said that it was in the past tense in 2011. As far as I know, you weren't president back then. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post:I didn't, then my party was in power. He didn't say the Democratic Party first either, he didn't say it first. The second thing, he said since 2011. His discussion referred to 2011. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: When my party was in power, and I am now the chairman of the City Committee. You can't, you can't just wait for your order to come as an applicant, to discuss the amendment. So you don't have the right to a replica. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: So, see, I discussed the amendment. At one point, he asked me what I was doing. ) But on no basis did he mention you, either you or the political party, or the function you perform. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: So, please, at one point he asked what happened then. ) All right, right on the line of Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14199	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I cannot hide my pleasure when you chair, in a completely different way you treat the opposition compared to your colleagues. What I wanted to say to Mr. Jovicic is that it seems to me that some here are wrong that they are not in the role of the insurgent. But it's just saying that they just don't understand the alarming institute. For the simple reason that alarming isn't a flat-rate evaluation. It's not the chairman's, the charges on the tabloids, the media. It's not pointing a finger at someone who's not guilty, and then you give him a thousand and one thing that really doesn't exist. So I think it's very important that we talk about facts. I will not take this opportunity to talk about two billion as the republican budget envisions pouring into a bankrupt GSP company in Belgrade. I'm going to use this time to talk about the amendment because we think that this amendment defines a lot of things, erases abuses, and prevents abuses that have been and will always be, but that must not be an excuse for alarmers not to be further protected. We think that, on the one hand, the representatives of the SNS are prone to charges, on the other hand, of course they're afraid that one day they won't get it on their heads, but by introducing concrete and comprehensive legal solutions, of course, we'll prevent it. We always fight false accusations. Against what does not exist if there is knowledge, I would ask Mr. Jovicic to go to the police and report the whole case. Until charges are filed that she really doesn't accuse the DS of something that never happened and that she has nothing to do with.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14200	Right on line, MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14201	The Honorable Chairman is pleased that I was one of the biggest alarmers while the mayor was from the party that proposed this amendment. I'm glad about that, because I had something to say. This is where we got the GSP charges. I beg your pardon, if the alarming officers had had the courage since 2008 and further to state their position they would say the mayor of Belgrade gave 65m euros for foreign buses, destroying the Serbian worker, the Serbian economy, the domestic economy, I mean "Icarbus". They also took a tram from a Spanish producer. The same tram in Belgrade costs 2.4m euros, and identical to it in Debricin, Hungary, 1.8. And if some alarmer had the courage, and I was one of those alarmers, and yet some GSP alarmers gave it as information, that the citizens know that you robbed the city of Belgrade. Also, you say, "Tabloids." The tabloids on one side correspond to you at a given time, not on the other. Your party's head in parliament just ran off on a tabloid to ask if there was an ultimatum set up by our country, because he read in the tabloid, and when one of your despots in Belgrade, which has been in charge of the city of Belgrade, produced corruption to the extent that we are having a hard time dealing with it today, then the tabloids are not a problem or are the problem. How can you not be ashamed? The city of Belgrade has not owed one, the only euro in the previous seven, eight months since the SNS took responsibility and it is indeed a proud fact. Unlike those of you who have raised Belgrade's public debt to one billion euros, we are now reducing that debt, we are talking to citizens and everything we buy, we are buying from funds at an adequate price, not to be overpaid as you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14202	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I am looking for a word. Mr. Bozovicu, I have to tell you, at no time has it been mentioned... (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14203	Thank you, Chairman. I'm a 107th advertiser because on several occasions you didn't warn my predecessor. He said the words - despot, that you were not ashamed, robbers, etc. So we listened again to a series of false things which not only tells us that SNS MPs do not understand this proposal, the alarming institution, is not an alarmer as he called himself Mr. Jovicic that he spoke a series of lies at the expense of the former mayor of Belgrade, who is otherwise the best mayor in the history of the city, but I will use this time from the rest of the minute to say that those who called, and among them is a respected colleague, who called on citizens of Belgrade not to pay the ticket for transport made bankruptcy of the company.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14204	Mr. Bozovicu, I really don't know what that has to do with Article 107?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14205	Here, let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14206	Explain to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14207	The 107th member was injured for the simple reason he was telling a lie. You didn't warn him, and let me just tell you what's true so that you as chairman would know that next time you're reacting properly. It was created minus the two billion you took to pensioners and professors and doctors and gave them to a bankrupt company of GSP in Belgrade, not to mention...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14208	Believe me, I didn't take anything from anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14209	... That after the pay cut and pensions in Belgrade, the salary mass increased by 1%. Now, these are the results of the city government, among other things, which have the support of the SNS's committee group, Mr. Jovicic, and I think that's something that today represents Belgrade, and the results that we've been making you have had the opportunity to see in all those projects that have changed Belgrade's face in just four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14210	Let me just answer to my colleague Bozovic. First, here in the Assembly, I don't think I'm some judge to determine what's true, and what's not, so I can't know if it's true that Mr. Jovicic brought out the cost of the tram that Belgrade pays 2.4 and someone at 1.8m euros in the same tram, I can't know that. Also, when it comes to local self-government in Belgrade's capital, I think that in previous elections, citizens have said what they think of each and every one of us. So just for one moment at a time, I'm asking you to put me in this situation, I'm not able to know and check the data that MPs are making during their debate, and that's business... (Balša Bozovic, from town: Robber. ) Just as you say you're right, Mr. Jovicic says he's right, you've exchanged with each other who's right and who's wrong and we're finishing the story here. The word is Mr. Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14211	Article 106. I would just like to briefly tell the previous speaker to remind the citizens of Serbia who brought the GSP into such a situation that we have five billion debts. In 2008, the city's GSP subsidies were three and a half billion. In 2012, when the mayor left your party, the subsidies raised to seven and a half billion. Where's the difference? What did the citizens of Belgrade see from that difference? They didn't see anything. They've seen expensive trams we can't even maintain right now because we don't have any money. We have expensive buses and a closed factory if it wasn't for Alexander Vukic who made a strategic partnership with Mercedes, these are the results of the best mayor in the past in the city of Belgrade. He left a bridge we don't have the money to do the tunnel because it didn't even care how to do the tunnel, because we need two billion more and the bridge isn't going anywhere. Those are the results. From buying the Inex building for sixm euros, because of three or four offices to fill it with your staff, these are the results of that party you are leading in the city of Belgrade. Today, the SNS is conducting a responsible policy in the city of Belgrade. We are not in charge of any single euro, nor will we be in debt, but we are absolutely sure that the projects that we will be implementing in the future, which you will surely support because you have nothing against them, no affairs, no corruption, no waste of money, there is nothing that is illegal, you will support, we will implement from the budget, and I would call on all the alarming thanks to the law that adopts the SNS, that if they notice any kind of corruption and report, the independent judiciary will protect them, and that is the only time that we will never get into a situation like that until 2012 that corruption flourishes in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14212	Mr. Joviciæu, a member of 106 you advertised, refers to the fact that the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. I believe that you have actually made a replica of which you had no right, and these two minutes will be taken away from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14213	Thank you. What measure did you give Mr. Jovicic, Mr. Arsic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14214	I said by using the Rules of Procedure's right that if there's any advertising of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is essentially not, it goes to abuse...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14215	He misused his right to advertise the Rules of Procedure, and you misused your right to chair this session and allowed him to talk for two minutes about something that didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Its Article 103, which I wish to draw attention to you at this time, obliges that when it comes to indicating that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, it must explain why it considers that the Rules of Procedure is injured, which consists of injury, and that is exactly what I am doing. The fact that you, after Mr. Jovicic again brought forth a series of false, casual accusations and lies without proof, waited for him to finish, and pointed out to him that he had violated the right of the Rules of Procedure, did not relieve you of responsibility. You violated that member. I'd still like to draw your attention to one thing, Mr. Chairman, you can't come from a place where you're about to flaunt with the MPs. You mentioned the local elections earlier in your response to Mr Bozovic, said that the citizens had given the court on this, in what position is it yours to break up with the MPs in such a way? Article 27, Article 103, please hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Don't let SNSD MPs do what they think they're doing. Two hundred twenty MPs support the ruling coalition. There's 30 of us. You cannot bear what 30 of us can say, but you are violating the rights of the opposition here, and you are allowing MPs of the ruling coalition to tell them what they think.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14216	My colleague Jerkov, I acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Mr. Jovicic, the time he used to hurt the Rules of Procedure, which I consider to be no place, I took away from the time of the parliamentary group, so I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to make the Parliament's statement in the voting day? (Yes) You do, all right. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14217	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be not accepted on Article 5 of the proposed law. I find this amendment unacceptable because it violates the meaning and essence of this bill, but I think it violates both the meaning and the essence of the reporting of corruption and corruption by the alarmers in general. As the government has explained in its opinion, such an amendment would have a deterrent effect. In doing so, if I am not mistaken, the government also called for a recommendation from the Council of Europe in its work on alarming motives. I think it's more or less clear to everyone in this room. I don't think anyone has a problem with that, except maybe some who write the amendments just to write the amendments, to get maybe a little more time for some criticism, criticism for criticism, criticism without arguments, and at the same time, forget to give us the right answers. Why and why and who prevented them from doing something at the time when they had absolute authority, just to vote and pass some laws and those clever and wise proposals that they are proposing here today? Who prevented them? What prevented them? I think that's the answer we need to hear today, not the empty story, the empty flossules and phrases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14218	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14219	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the academic congratulation is not there, although he has explained this amendment, so he believes in it in time to wipe out, so the bill provides for this member to report corruption within a year of knowing that the alarmer can be prepared for a year, encouraged to present it or ten years from the day that it happened. The amendment promoter wanted this to happen immediately. It's obvious he wanted to skip the period since 2012. If the law says ten years, if they want to change it, to be right after they find out, that means it should be in a newer time, and the older one, let's just forget it quickly, push it under the carpet. As an alarming officer, I had to check it out. As soon as I learned, I was unable to respond, but the minister at the last session asked whether it was true that for the creation of this model of the law, the task force that was composed of our very own Citizens' Protector, and the trustee's service received more than 100,000 euros from the UK and the Netherlands embassy, or 80,000 pounds for the creation of a very bad model that had to be completed, for the development of a law that had to be developed, for the creation of a model where the Citizens' Protector proposed that he make a recommendation if it came to the knowledge that corruption had happened, and only then, if it did not respond to the recommendation, to file a criminal report. So, as someone with knowledge, I couldn't react immediately, but now that I've checked everything, I'm asking if it's true that these big-paying uncles, 350,000 and more, have received over 100,000 euros, 80,000 pounds for a project to write a model of the tobacco protection law in a whistle? Is it true that Sasa Jankovic, the Protector of the Citizens, who has over 350,000 dinars, and who here the opposition defends along with the Trustee as members of their party, is it true that he was the president of the task force? Is it true that the split fees from these 80,000 pounds and that the high-paying uncles were entitled to additional fees? I'm also asking if it's true that the task force didn't want to receive the representatives of "Pissicles" even though they wanted to participate in the design of the model for free? They asked to be present when making a model of the law. That's the "Pistal" they claim to be some sanctity now, and the Trustee and the Citizens' Protector and the Task Force have kicked them out of the task force, they did not want to accept them, although they expressed their desire to make the model, participate in making the model, to participate for free. In a certain way, they are very suspicious, and I will say the corrupting way they have taken over 100,000 euros to their loved ones, 80,000 pounds, as the Embassy of Great Britain and the Netherlands has given to create the model of this law. I would like to be answered about this, and is it true that they are not representatives of "Pistols", which is one representative organization, that they did not allow them to participate free of charge in the design of this model? Also, given that information is being mentioned here, I want it to be more than a few months since it's been known that something about the best mayor can be alarmed. So, I don't know if this is true, but I have to be an alarmer, given that there's been a debate about this and the best mayor, I'm just going to read what I found out as an alarming officer that they were talking about each other. So, I will read what the representatives of one part of the election list spoke about the representatives of the second part of the election list, or what the candidate for prime minister of the 2014 election list spoke about the party's president, that is, the best mayor. I want you to check to me, Mr. Minister, whether it's according to those allegations, and I'm seeing it as an alarmer, because one part of the list claimed to be a candidate from the other part of the election list that Dragan Gilas is the manipulator. Gilas is a grave robber and a tycoon, reported on February 11, 2014 by candidates...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14220	I'm just asking you to explain what this has to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14221	How come it doesn't matter? They suggest, I just told you, February 11, 2014. I had knowledge, I had to check those findings first, and the amendment promoter said I had to do it right away. How am I supposed to do that when the Justice Minister just got here? So, the amendment is simply unacceptable, because this was declared on February 11th 2014 that Gilas was a grave robber and this was said by a candidate from the same list that Gilas was on, that he destroyed Serbian society, that he was arrogant and that he destroyed democracy. To be examined, he said, a member of the electoral list on the second part of the electoral list, to examine how the bridge builder Dragan Djilas succeeded just in the period when his party was in power of its income to osmit, how did the father and brother's company Oliver Dulic get the job cleaning the dump on 6 October 2012? I quote what they said about each other. Furthermore, the candidate's statement on the election list about the candidate from the second part of the election list, Gilas's main merit, is to take the most expensive bridge, the eighth priority of the capital, and to do an expensive reconstruction of the boulevards. That's why I'm asking to check if this alarmer on their election list was telling the truth about the second part of the election list? I'm asking the Minister of Justice, since I have no one else to alert, to check all these allegations I've made here. What I think is that all they say about each other is that it's all true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14222	Thank you. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14223	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 107. You had an obligation to warn the previous speaker, I wouldn't mention his name and name, he gave himself a nickname. Article 107, for a simple reason, is obviously being dealt with here with both the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information and the Anti-Corruption Agency and all independent regulatory bodies in the country, where it is evident that the aim of the SNS is to assume the role of everything in this society and the authorities and the opposition and independent bodies and the non-governmental sector and only that what the SNS Supreme Leader is saying is ultimately true. So this is a home where, while you are chairman, you are not always, but here you are replacing Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, who is the president of the National Assembly, please take care of dignity, for the simple reason that you cannot allow anyone to talk to this about independent institutions in the country, whatever you think of it. That someone stole money, someone embraced 100,000 euros, 80,000 pounds, etc. How can I tell you, it's not European, it's not human to talk like that in this home. Please respond to these things in the future, because this is an ugly picture of Serbia. This is an ugly picture of Serbia, and I don't think it's right for you to be pushing it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14224	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. First of all, I have to tell you that my colleague Risticevic was asking questions from the minister, stating his doubts about certain acts. Finally, let's get this straight with the independent authorities being independent of the executive. You have also humiliated the dignity of the National Assembly when you put independent state bodies above the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who elected them and gave them public authority, and which also submit reports to the National Assembly on their work and the relevant committees of the work plan for the coming year. So, I don't think there's a broken member you've been invited to. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Yes. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14225	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured Article 106. Namely, the speaker from the SNS parliamentary group spoke for about seven minutes just outside of the amendment that was on the agenda. To make things worse, he spoke in a way that this is a courtroom, and now you've said it yourself, you've confirmed the thesis about the minister being a witness here. You say - he asked the minister if Mr. Jankovic had committed the crime. And he said beyond the agenda theme that Mr. Jankovic, so explicitly, took $100,000, that he spent it in a suspicious way, and thus you turned the Assembly into a courtroom. So it's not true that the Assembly can't discuss the Guardian of Citizens. Today, however, it is not the citizens' protection report, nor is it discussed. You were obliged to protect, first of all, an institution and a man who does not sit here, from very serious and serious charges, for a crime of abuse of $100,000, and for whom the sentence of prison is pronounced, is that so, Minister, for at least three years. You had to, the chairman to react, otherwise turn this congregation into something that it shouldn't be. It's been like that since this morning. You, unfortunately, continued to do so. You had to give a warning to the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14226	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14227	That's why I'm asking you to do it later, or else I'm asking you to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14228	Since you're asking to vote, I don't think I need to give you an explanation, or do you want an explanation? I would ask fellow Members of the People's Parliament to study the Rules of Procedure and the laws that we are making, if they want to discuss some things. I don't want to ever, at any time, prevent a MP who supports the government and who votes for it or a MP who doesn't vote on the government to ask a question. Some may not like it, but I think it's the basic right of the MP. If you think only ministers should be there to tell us the bill and come out, then I think it's the collapse of the dignity of the National Assembly. I warned Mr. Risticevic to return to the topic of the agenda at one point in his exposure, which he, by my estimate, did. The word has a minister in the government, Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14229	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that this is an important law, especially a law that brings and regulates a whole of one matter for the first time the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, causes and, let's say, a positive public storm, but given that I have been personally mentioned several times and I have been asked one question, and I believe that it is in the interest of the MPs, in the interest of the Serbian citizens to know. It was just from a representative of the Pistaljka portal and its editor-in-chief Vladimir Radomirovic, who I received more than a year and a half ago and talked with him, along with five other alarmers, who sought reception with me, that pointed out the fact that one MP was talking about, which is that the task force that the Commissioner formed worked for money. I don't think it's a secret, it's even come out in public with the fund that was received for the design of the alarming law was about 80,000 pounds, not dollars, which is a little more than 100,000 euros, about 104, I don't know what course it was back then, but just over 100,000 euros. It is true that certain members of that task force were compensated for it. It is true that the information that Commissioner Sabic later provided, although "Pistalki" was announced that members of the working group were working pro bono, so on a voluntary basis, information was later made that the fund for the payment of fees to members of the working group was £16,000. One thing I must say is that Mr. Sasa Jankovic, the Civilian Protector, has given up writing through this fee, but I am not aware that the other members of the task force did so. I considered this necessary to divulge any suspicion, especially for the protection of the citizens I respect, and if it's forbidden to do this for money, I don't think it's forbidden, but I think that's what I need to say. It should be said for the simple reason that the Ministry of Justice formed a working group that also had highly competent and active members, started by university professors, also, as Professor Branko Lubarda participated in that task force, and here participated, in the working group of the Ministry of Justice, two university professors, two judges of the Supreme Court of Justice, a deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor, two judges of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, two judges of the Criminal Court in Belgrade, the prosecutor of the Court of Honor of the Business Chamber of Serbia, as well as the chief and agreed editor of the portal "Pistelska", and members of the "Pistelska" were not allowed to participate in the work of the working group formed by the Commissioner. I think you should say that. So, the Pistils members, even on a voluntary basis, were not allowed to participate in the work of that task force and the Pistils members, came out with one public opinion, announced it to me at a meeting, and he was voting, paraphrasing, if the people who need to regulate the protection of us, who have been subject to mobing because of the report of corruption, if those who need to write a model of law that should regulate it, have no ear for our participation in the work group, then we express our doubts as to what kind of model they will make at all. In addition to the representatives of Pistalska, there was also one of the alarmers and one of the judges from the basic court in Šapac, but also representatives of the MUP, as well as representatives of the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia. I think it was a very good working group, and the fact that in the expert opinion of the Council of Europe, as the first item, it stated that the working group that developed the draft law compared to the working group that developed the law model was much more comprehensive, that it represented experts from different fields, and that the result of the work group was much greater legitimacy. That certainly has something to do with it, and I've been responding here to what I've been personally called, but it has to do with this amendment. It also has to do with this amendment because this amendment calls for a text written in the model, and this model, as I said, by the Council of Europe, has been assessed worse than the draft law which is now being translated into the bill and which is before you. I'm sorry, if I've taken too much of your time, I think I've given you information that's certainly useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14230	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, specifically by the amendment we are discussing right now, another few words in favour of the argument why the amendment should be rejected. First of all, I think the amendment itself is poorly formed, poorly designed, logical and in terms of the results it needs to achieve. Therefore, the results set up by the amendment promoter cannot be achieved if this amendment is adopted, and it speaks in itself enough about quality and legal, but I say, primarily logically, because in the first place we have an amendment supplement for the additional condition necessary, so the condition of which the fulfilment is required to obtain the right to protect prescribed by this Member of the law, which is amended by amendment. This condition shall be based on the proposal immediately after knowledge of the action carried out to alert or after checking the information relevant to the alert. So it's about the moment the alarm's done. With the "or", one common logical condition, therefore composed of two continents can be fulfilled and that is a matter of elemental logic, if one or the other part of it is fulfilled, so either of those two. If the amendment's intention was to introduce with this correction the mandatory necessity to verify the knowledge, it would not meet that objective. Why? Because it's written like this, there's a possibility that a global condition like this will be satisfied if the application is made directly. We did it directly or otherwise, so the condition is satisfied. There's no effect on checking. If the goal is to achieve a new speed, again the same problem, just as it is said on the other side: "directly or after the check", so I did after the check, it was not direct, but still enough for the global condition to be satisfied, by meeting one of its components in "or" connection. So if neither was the primary objective of the effect to be achieved, he will not be satisfied if we adopt this amendment. In addition to the application speed, what is it that defines directly? Well, the deadline that was left. If the deadline is originally identical, it shall be identical to the one originally proposed. That's what will define directness, in this case, it's again that year from which we started. So the results of any and two rows of text over. My personal objection to the quality of the proposed solution and the effects, and there is no end to the things that I personally dispute. In point 4, as proposed, an alert notice is being discussed on whether or not the person to whom the information is being supplied has already had knowledge. Sliding terrain, you'll agree. And in some of the arguments that we've been given, it's said that it's not expected to be perfect, but I think the thought that's put into account -- it's important that it doesn't know that the one who needs to get the information doesn't know. It doesn't mean anything by itself. If the alarmer has no prior knowledge, he cannot even know what the information is or does not know, so that it does a lot of additional problems in practice, additional confusion in the text itself, especially if it is taken into account such tax-listed continents should be satisfied at the same time to justify status, i.e. the possibility of using protection. At the very end, the seventh point of the proposal, you could see it in the reasoning that we received from the government, the essence of whether anyone deserves protection or does not deserve protection lies not in what his original intentions were, but in the quality of the information he provides. The quality of this information is very clear, detailed, precisely defined in the two points of this law. So we're getting some valuable knowledge that it's about potential abuses, about potentially a major threat that threatens, that's what's worth it, and that's what's qualified someone to protect. Whether he has personal empathy or not to anyone who might be involved in the process is far less important. That's what our conversators from the world think, and that's what the government thinks, and that's what I personally join myself with my interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14232	The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14233	Let me ask you, before you go, do you still hold on to the fact that MPs can ask the minister whenever they want, whether it's about the subject we're talking about or whether it's only about SNS MPs? Since my exposure will depend on your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14234	If your questions are about the bill or only about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14235	It's some kind of crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14236	Some kind of criminal act? You want to act like an alarm man?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14237	Let's say, to the extent that everything that SNS MPs said about the law is about the law. It's so much what I intend to ask the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14238	Ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14239	Thank you. I have a question for Mr Selakovic whether he knows the ruling of the VCC since 9 May 2013. This is the decision of 58/2013, thanks to which 400 million dinars were removed from the city of Novi Sad's account, on behalf of the damage paid by the City of Novi Sad to a certain private resident, Ilija Devic, for disrespecting the contract signed with him by the then mayor of Novi Sad, and today's National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic. I ask because of what the verdict says, I read the verdict – from the previous statement about security, motive, bad intentions, illicit object and action, it is doubtless the responsibility of the parties is the same or the same. This implies that there is a shared responsibility for the damage caused in equal proportion. So the VCC designated the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as guilty... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14240	Miss Jerkov, I must draw your attention that you are now interpreting the verdict as you wish to interpret it. Please, if you wish to continue, do not act as a judge, but as a People's MP. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I read the judgment of the court. You've read the verdict of the court, I don't mind, and then you've reached a conclusion that is, by my understanding, contrary to what I think. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I read the verdict of the court. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14241	Mr. Arsic, please come in as a participant in the discussion, for your word, and then you'll give your opinion on what I said. So far, I'm asking you to hold off on those powers that the Rules of Procedure gives you. I've finished my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14242	That's exactly what I'm doing, Miss Jerkov. The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14243	Chairman, you have violated the provisions of Articles 106 and 107. If we're already talking about criminal charges, we want to talk about a criminal report filed against former Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, who destroyed her judicial reform and for damages estimated at 1.5 billion dinars? There are 600 judges out of work, no criteria, if we're going to discuss criminal charges. We're also talking criminal charges here, beatings, everything, please take care of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14244	Thank you. My colleague Jerkov spent her time as a member of the Parliament's group reading the explanation of the verdict about the damage suffered by the City of Novi Sad, but the moment she came out of the frame of reading the verdict and began to interpret it in her own way I took away her word, in fact, interrupted her exposure, so that someone didn't get me wrong. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14245	The aim of this law, including the amendment, which we are now talking about, is to enable Serbia to fight corruption. It's a very important thing for our country, our society, because the cancer of corruption is deep and it's everywhere. Of course corruption is the most about power, whatever. Is this the previous border of the Dacic government or this current government? In any case, many examples are obvious. As you know, we have a precedent, which is that for the first time, the Anti-Corruption Agency has recommended the replacement of the justice minister. Imagine that level of the paradox that one who should be one of the main justice fighters, to fight corruption, to fight crime, in general, by the state authority responsible for the fight against corruption, will be proposed for a shift. It is obvious that it is necessary to create institutional conditions that this fight against corruption is being fought and that citizens who are aware of their responsibilities, who are more aware of their responsibilities than many representatives of the government, and especially the ministers of justice, police and such, to get this framework institutional that they can freely report to the competent authorities or the public to speak examples of all types of crime and corruption in particular. What's going on with these people? Those people who do it are bullied, scrawny, scared. So in Serbia, it is necessary to pass a law on freedom of fear. I'm sure such a proposal will soon be on the agenda. There were talks about working groups working on the preparation of this law. At the beginning and in the principle debate, I was talking about the fact that, in the wrong context, the trustees for informing and protecting citizens, who allegedly contributed to this law, which is not true. Today, in one brutal, primitive way, we had an example of trying to deal with independent bodies, such as trustees of both, and the Anti-Corruption Agency, because they are doing their job. There was a story about the money some working group got to make this bill, and my question to someone who can answer that question, and it's logical to be a minister of justice, is it true that the Ministry's working group also had fees that were about the same size as the fees mentioned by this informal working group? Is it true that they were these fees, and the work group of the Ministry was just to spoil a good bill that was...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14246	Mr. Zivkovic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14247	That's exactly what I'm talking about. Amendments to Article 5 to add points 4, 5 and 6. I'm a very good follower. Therefore, this is more than certain, that the work of the Ministry's working group was merely to spoil the good bill proposal, and the mass of amendments we propose are from that good bill, and whose creators were just a little earlier, was an attempt to embarrass them. It's a completely pointless thing. Secondly, your predecessor, Mr. Chairman, has allowed questions to be asked to the minister, so I don't know why this wouldn't apply to me right now. Let's say we take an example of an alarmer who warned about Asamakum. A company that's a phantom company, a very interesting owner, three or four years of work, works, is liable for tax, is in front of bankruptcy. That's what the public is talking about, and then someone who says it publicly is still a national MP, no matter what my smallness is, gets a hit from the highest level of government, or at least that way it should be a place where someone who presents himself as Serbian Prime Minister in the resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14248	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14249	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as much as anyone has tried to draw the public's attention to the falsest things, even in the most poignant way, I think untruely positive attention can hardly be drawn. Since I was in the ministry of justice and the state administration's portfolio first, and after the Justice Ministry, which is since July 27, 2012, not one member of any single working group working on any legal regulation has received a single dinar of any fee. So, not a single penny. Not a single member of the task force, let alone £4,000 per member of the task force. As for the so-called so-called. I think it's the best thing he's talking about, here's the present, the report, the final version of the draft code on alarming. Prepared by Paul Stevenson, Great Britain, an expert in the Council of Europe, and reviewed and arranged by the Secretariat of the Council of Europe. I am pleased that we from the Justice Ministry together with our working group have "stamped" the model, because this "small model" has been praised by the Council of Europe and the European Commission, and the same mention by Mr Paul Stevenson said that he is ready for those who think that something is corrupt to explain what's wrong and what's right. Also, the opinion of the European Commission, which compares why the better draft you have in front of you is as a proposal, rather than an expensively paid model of law. I'm convinced that the convincing majority, and whoever wants to, can come here and look at it and see for themselves, and no wonder when amendments are submitted that aren't well rated in the law model because whoever wrote them also got the money to write them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14250	Thank you. (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica. No, no, you don't have a real replica. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure? The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14251	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. You have violated the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, and I believe when the minister, Mr Selakovic, shows and proves that there is no payment, but here I have evidence and contracts that, for example, only one former regime site and Mr Oliver Dulic paid for the development of the site 25,000 euros. Well, that didn't bother Mr. Zivkovic to stop and support that list and help that list cross the census. No problem, one site of 25,000 euros, and here, that's proof, the contract I have in my hand. On the other hand, Mr. Chairman, if we are talking about alarmer Zivkovic, by the prime minister, Mr. Vukic was also given a gentleman's offer and message without this law and provided a hand that if what he claimed is true, and what I can see is that even now Mr. Zivkovic is saying he will resign. If he made a false statement, and we saw it from the MUP report, and from the Office of Revenue, and from all relevant institutions of the Republic of Serbia, it proved to be true, we expected Mr Zivkovic to resign. It exists in two gentlemen's agreement, but in this kind of arrangement there was only one gentleman, and that was Mr. Alexander Vukic. For nothing, when there is no political correctness on the other hand, because if there were, the Administrative Board and this Assembly would have determined Mr. Zivkovic's resignation long ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14252	I didn't find myself hurting the Rules of Procedure at all, in this presentation of yours. I can rather conclude that the Rules of Procedure have been misused, and I ask that in the future, when you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you really explain it, which is where that injury was done. Don't throw it out of place now. I'm trying to be as correct to everyone here as I can. Personally, I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Babic, are you asking us to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to tell you that you did break the Rules of Procedure, and that's an article 106 that says that the speaker can only talk about a point that's on the agenda. You have allowed the speaker, who spoke before Minister Selakovic, the MP in resignation, to talk about everything that is not exactly on the agenda today. I will remind you that today's debate on amendments to the Code on the Protection of Alertors, and you are an independent MP, an MP in resignation, not for three-and-a-half minutes of his exposure to everything that is not on the agenda, so there have been some expressions and some judgments and all sorts of things. In any case, naked lies, naked nonsense, and it's not the first time he's done it. Mr. Chairman, if you allow this session to turn into that MPs can talk about what happens to anyone, the topics they don't care about, the topics that hurt them, the ones that bother them, you know what, maybe someone here has some love issues of their own, maybe someone has some health issues of their own. I don't mind, there's a number of doctors here among the MPs, so if the MP in the resignation has a problem, there's a psychiatrist here, he'll be happy to help him, but that's no reason to interfere with the course of the session and turn this session into a circus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14254	Thank you for your suggestions, but please choose your own words when you talk about others. Please don't call any doctors, no one, because it's also a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let's be dignified, correct in every way, I agree. We here now, here's how much I listen, almost every single one of the MPs is trying to be an alarmer, and we haven't passed the law yet. So you represent various examples, both sides. If that's the case, then I can, I can tell you, I can apply the Rules of Procedure. Here, from this moment on, I will give every person a warning that does not stick to the agenda, and the agenda is a concrete amendment, and whoever steps down from this amendment, I will give you a warning. That's what counts for both sides. Don't ask me to look kindly at one another and punish others. I didn't ask Mr. Markovic, do you want us to say yes in the voting day? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Zoran Zivkovic, then the People's Messenger Janko Veseinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14255	You yourself said, Mr. Chairman, that the injured Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, is dignity. The fact that you let the previous speaker mention the disease, the doctors, and that you didn't react, it really...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14256	How could I not, Zivkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14257	Please allow me to give an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14258	I'm not going to let false things go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14259	How could you just let that happen?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14260	Please, I warned the People's Messenger that it was not correct, I did not say a warning, as I did not warn you, because you left the agenda. Please, don't fight. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How can you not be ashamed? [[You can't hear it.]] ) Mr. Zivkovic, for disturbing the order in the Assembly, I give you a warning. I can also be a favor, I can be strict, however you want, but it's up to you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: It would be good for you to be smart.) How can you not be ashamed? I give you a second warning. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14261	Article 27. Rules of Procedure, running the National Assembly. Your Honor, your decision to apply the Rules of Procedure, two minutes ago, was to harshly violate the Rules of Procedure, because you cannot apply the Rules of Procedure from one moment to another, and before that, you or your predecessors. So, until that moment, MPs of the ruling coalition, primarily SNS MPs, were here to press charges and deliver sentences. They specifically mentioned MP Snezana Malovic, a former minister, who was personally mentioned and said which criminal charges against her were filed. Then you come, sit there and say you'll apply the Rules of Procedure from now on. What does Snezana Malovic have to do with this item of the agenda and the accusations that are unfounded and in places that do not belong? You do not hold a session as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, i.e. you do volunteering in the way that you sometimes apply the Rules of Procedure, and sometimes you do not apply it, and you apply it when the MPs are to speak, here comes the chairman of the Assembly, who is likely to make it impossible for opposition deputies to speak further.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14262	Mr. Veselinović, let me answer you. It is your right to have your own opinion on leadership. I'm not responsible for running a session of my predecessors, but I'm responsible for the time I'm here. What has now come to pass is what you, gentlemen of the Parliament, have been looking for. I've only fulfilled your desire to act on the Rules of Procedure and the Dot, and you have the right to, as far as I'm concerned, I don't think I've hurt myself, and you have the right to plead in the day to vote. Do you want to make a statement? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers Mr Selakovic and the Honorable Guests, I believe that the Presidents of the National Assembly have just been violated by Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when Mr. Zivkovic is not given the right to a replica on which he is based on the content of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure Mr. Zivkovic was right. You weren't here, and now I'd like to let you know what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14264	No need, I watched the transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14265	So, then you know, then you certainly know that Mr. Zivkovic, after Mr. Selakovic's reaction and speech, reported that he further commented and explained some of the things that Mr. Selakovic had previously misread in relation to Mr. Zivkovic's previous speech. Instead of giving Mr. Arsenovic the right to speak to Mr. Zivkovic according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, Mr. Arsenovic gave the right to the word to Mr. Babic. When Mr. Babic took advantage of his right to the word, Mr. Arsenovic told Mr. Babic that Mr. Babic had misused the right to the word after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected presidents. Mr Arsenovic then gave the word to Mr Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and after Mr Markovic's speech, Mr Arsenovic said that Mr Markovic, an MP of the SNS, also misused the right to a word based on the violation of the Rules of Procedure and, respected presidents, after that, that Mr Arsenović, who had not received the right to speak, and had the right to do so, gave a warning, instead of giving notice to the MPs whom he himself found to have misused the right to the word, respected presidents of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14266	Thank you. Regardless of the amount of obligations I have today, I can tell you that I am able to monitor the course of the session, for which they are responsible, as you have noticed, almost all the vice-presidents have changed in every hour, and the atmosphere in parliament depends on MPs, not only on those who give their word or implement the Rules of Procedure. You'll agree, today almost all the vice presidents will be changing and will be holding a session, and in this atmosphere it's really very difficult to work and focus on discussing the laws, which are why we've even scheduled a session today, especially when we're discussing amendments, where we should all stick to the debate on the agenda, but all of us. Right? That's right, and here it was all about everything and everything, except the amendments, and we can figure it out together. Secondly, I must say that Vice President Konstantin Arsenovic is a great session manager. He's the vice president who, including me as chairman, I think he's doing it the best possible way. Its right and judgment, if we read all of the Rules of Procedure together, when they will respond to a discussion, when they will express measures and to whom they will give measures. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Based on Rules of Procedure. ) Yes, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure begin from here to here and is interpreted only by the President and Vice-Presidents, by the will of those who have adopted the Rules of Procedure in some way, but by binding it on all of us. It's one of the few powers that the president and vice president have in general. MPs, no matter who they are, are trying to take that away from us. I don't see the role of the chairman just to speak – yes, no, go ahead and time. That's what a machine can do. Of course, it is your right to vote because it is possible to vote whenever someone says - we will vote, but Konstantin Arsenovic did not make a mistake and did not break the Rules of Procedure. I'm glad he did what I often don't have the strength to make warnings, as much as I have that weakness not to say. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: He abused... I don't know, when you're the President of Parliament you'll be talking about who abused and who didn't. There'll be a choice one day, my God, but now it's like this. You didn't object when you were talking, reading, and I don't know anything about other things that have nothing to do with the agenda. If you'd reacted then, you'd be thinking about whether or not the Rules of Procedure really hurt. You're no different from anyone else. Every one of your own. There's a lot of damage to the Rules of Procedure here, and I'm asking you to understand, that the course of the session would go in the right direction, to commit ourselves to the law, that we now have a regular break of an hour, because apparently the president and vice president are having a session all together in a way that you don't approve of here, so in an hour we're going to think about how it's going to continue to work. Well, that's one of my few rights to take a break for lunch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14267	Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the laws and other acts in the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14268	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates and colleagues, Article 5 refers to the right to protect the alarmers. Our amendment provides for the addition of three more points to ensure that protection can only be provided to the alarmer who is saving, or who has done the alarm in good faith, while respecting protection, particularly sensitive personality data. The amendment came from the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency in this law, which has just recommended that it be ensured that the alarmer acts in good faith. The amendment also came from a proposal for transparency in Serbia, as well as from a model of the Alert Law, which was developed by a working group formed by the Commissioner for the Protection of Personal Data, whose president was the Citizens' Protector. The model specifically developed the issue of alarm security. We consider this a vital issue, since the matter of alarming is very important, but also sensitive. How much alerters can be significant allies in the fight against corruption as much as this law can turn into its opposite unless special attention is paid to the alarming security issue. The answer, or the Government's opinion on our proposal for an amendment, is that the Government does not accept the amendment, because Article 5. The draft law adequately provides social protection to persons who disclose information on violations of the rules, violations of human rights, public authority against the purpose of which it is entrusted, or who is alerting in view of the fact that the draft law explicitly prohibits the abuse of alarmers. We're thinking that never enough precision as far as this sensitive subject is concerned. I can simply say that the Government further confirms by its argument that this law, it seems to me, serves only to promote the government and that it does not at all express the sincere intention of the promoter to regulate the alarm in the best possible way. In fact, we have amended the issue of alarming security more precisely in order to be able to talk about abuse needs firstly to more precisely regulate security, because unconscious alarming is an abuse. Apparently, the government wants this area to remain clouded so that it can continue with its tabloid manner of accusing political opponents thanks.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14269	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14270	I thank the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly, taking into consideration this amendment's proposal, and as I said by the experts of the Council of Europe who participated in the task force chaired by the Citizens' Protector and the working group whose president I was myself, which was formed by the Ministry of Justice. I will read to you in two sentences what is the appeal of Vladimir Radomirović, the editor-in-chief and responsible of the website "Pistaljska", as a site that gathers alarmers, said Mr. Paul Stevenson, a legal expert, i.e. an expert in the protection of the alarming officers of the Council of Europe. He says -- Mr. Radomirovic, I heard from you that this week's parliament will discuss the Code on the Protection of Alarmers. I also heard of a proposal from the Anti-Corruption Agency to introduce a request for good faith with the alarming officer. I would like to remind you that this particular element has caused many problems to the United Kingdom and that we have therefore erased it from the law a year ago, and that good faith in the alarming party is not among the required elements prescribed by the Council of Europe's recommendation. So, the country with the longest experience in the legal protection of alarmers, Great Britain, whose legal expert also co-operated with the task force formed by the Trustee, and with the working group formed by the minister of justice. It says – it should not stand in the law because it has caused many problems in the application of the law. We've experienced it. We advise you not to go there. That was why we didn't put this as one of the necessary qualifications for the person of the alarmer himself. Thank you. (Branka Karavidić, from the place: Please, just a minute. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14271	Branka, I really don't see the basis. The answer was. The word has a folk MP, according to the amendment, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14272	Thank you, Your Honor, I'm sorry I'm not on those previous responses that are similar, but I wasn't talking even though I really wanted to talk about the amendment. I have to admit, I don't understand the motives of an amendment like this to be submitted. You're looking for something simple that's amazing. For example, the alarmer is required to receive protection says – unless the disclosure of information conditioned any benefit to itself or to others, unless the condition relates to illegalities or dangers. First, how can you even know if he was looking for someone or not? How can you know that in advance? I mean, who could possibly know, so you could predict something like this. So it's completely illogical. Also, when it is said that it can receive protection if it has not published particularly sensitive personality data that are not relevant for removing and jeopardising public interest. I may agree with you in some ways, but you know what if he published it, but he also published extremely important information, let's just say, about some corrupt activity within the company itself. Why couldn't he have protection? Which makes sense because he might have said somewhere sensitive information from a private life that he didn't have the right to protect himself if he discovered corruption. I'm sorry, I think it's completely illogical. So I don't understand why something like this is going on. I'm a member of the law is quite enough. I don't think there's any need to spread confusion and bring total chaos in some way into this country's legal system with such amendments. I believe that since dear colleague Karavidic has always had good motives, I like to use her as leverage, but I don't understand the motive for this kind of submission. This is something you can't predict even if you wanted to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14273	Branka, I can give you the amendment again, but just wait, order. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic, please reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14274	Mr. Chairman, Mr. General, Mr. Minister with Associates, of course I will not support this amendment for the reasons the minister has already said, because the alarming in good faith, as has been said and in good faith, has proved in Europe that it is not good and that is exactly why the government has proposed this law, as the minister said in that plenary work, is one of the best laws in the region under the assessment of the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights, not only in the region, even beyond Europe, one of the four laws in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very important that we have alarming protection. If we had the law this back four or five years, or during the former regime, we might not have the Oliver Dulic case, because someone would have tipped off 20,000 euros in one billboard. If we had an alarmer, maybe Sasha Dragin wouldn't have been processed, because they would have tipped us off...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14275	Please don't name anyone, don't call anyone, I respect everyone, but I'm asking you to stick to the agenda and don't call anyone now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14276	Mr. Chairman, this is about the Alertr Protection Act and let me explain myself in a unique way how I think it's okay, but I'm not going to take a safe turn from the agenda. If we had an earlier Alert Act, I know very well, at least as far as education is concerned, we wouldn't have a dean beating, not just on political sciences, my fellow professor, and today he didn't mention, beating up the dean in Kosovo Mitrovica, Mr. Kicevic, and that's where we differ from the former regime. We take care of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all professors, and they take care of themselves. Please allow me to explain myself in a unique way and please, if I stray from the subject, you're free to warn me. Every piece of information that's about the alarming officer and this law, I don't give from the papers, you know that well. It's about the state auditor. If we had this law earlier, it wouldn't have happened that one former minister today MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia spent 850,000 on running software on VMA, and the new software then cost four times less. So, this is an extremely good law and for this reason, Mr. Minister, we really support this law in general. This amendment is precisely the reason why colleagues have suggested that this law be applied, not in good faith. In good faith was the chance to put your hand deeper in the pockets of Serbian citizens. In that name, I really support this law, and we are against this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14277	The word comes from MP Branko Karavidic, followed by Balsa Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14278	Of course, I disagree with the previous speaker that this law is the best in the world. I don't see why the government has a problem with any more precise determination of alarming security in law. You didn't convince me by saying it was bad practice in England. One more thing, and according to this ideal and fantastic law, just to draw attention to the other MPs, in article 11, who says that the ban on the abuse of alarms, which deals with the topic, is interesting that no subsequent member has provided sanctions for those who abuse alarms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14279	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14280	I'm the one who reported after the damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14281	I didn't know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14282	I'm a 107th advertiser of dignity. Mr Atlagic spoke, several very large charges he made at the expense of some former ministers, and some mentioned the name and last name, and some only as representatives of the former regime and I don't think you responded adequately. Here today you gave several warnings to individual MPs, and you were about to give a warning to Mr Atlagic about what, first of all, is not true. He mentioned former Minister Sasa Dragin, and he was not charged. On the other hand, he mentioned some others, mentioning some compromising actions in the purchase of software. I'm not exactly sure Mr. Atlagic knows what software is. So I wouldn't want this debate to turn into something that doesn't apply to the bill itself. I would ask that in the next period, from now on, you warn your colleagues to return to the subject of the agenda and to talk about amendments to this bill, because I don't think that otherwise, all of this will turn into anything constructive.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14283	Mr Bozovic, I think you've noticed well that I warned Mr Atlagic and then he no longer mentioned any name. You did mention the examples, I don't mind the example, but the name didn't mention it, I was very careful. So, I'm not gonna stop anyone, nor can I, to name examples, but not to mention names. Mr. Atlagic respected my suggestion and no longer mentioned any name in his discussion. In that sense, I believe that this is how I removed this kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and you can state whether in the voting day, you want to vote? You do, all right. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Replica. ) Please, you know you have no right to replicate on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. In that sense, don't answer it. The right to breach of the Rules of Procedure first has Djukanovic, then Biljana.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14284	I'm advertising a breach of Article 109. You were obliged to give your speaker a warning because he used it, so - a reminder is given if swearing or offensive expressions are used. I'm talking about offensive expressions here. To express yourself so about Professor Atlagic, professor of auxiliary historical sciences, and otherwise today you can't, even if you follow all the events, scientific gatherings, if you don't even know IT well. It's just amazing, especially because it comes from a man, on the other hand, who's still academically educated, and some respect for a professor must have, and this showed that nobody's title or anything appreciates it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14285	Please, I didn't experience it that way at all. I have to be correct, regardless of the facts, but I didn't see it as offensive. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the scene: he said the professor does not know what software is. Please don't do that. Let me explain. If we argue with each other like that now, we'll get into a situation like we did before. If we respect each other and allow me to express my opinion. So that's what this is about, he was reacting, a man, which I didn't warn, maybe he didn't hear, which is why I explained to him that I warned Mr. Atlagic not to mention the names and he respected it and that's why I don't think there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Now, let's not push the max to the finish line, let's get on with the work. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Biljana Pantic Pilja. Excuse me, Mr. Djukanovic, do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14286	Chairman, you have injured Article 107(2) of the direct address to the MP and the use of offensive expressions. You let the previous speaker tell counterpart Atlagic that he doesn't even know what the software is. Please, a young colleague may be a computer expert, but it was wrong and correct of you to allow such an address. As for the discussion of counterpart Atlagic, I don't know why the opposition colleagues are so upset when Oliver Dulic, Vojvodina Development Bank, Capital Investment Fund. Please apply the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14287	So in a similar way, they advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I can only repeat what I said to Mr. Djukanovic, so I believe there was no injury, and you can plead. No, I don't. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising a breach of Article 103 and regarding article 107, and I don't want to believe you're not aware of what the previous speaker said about professor of honor, Mr. Atlagic. He said he thought he didn't even know what software it was, so I said he said he thought Mr. Atlagic didn't even know what software it was. I'm just asking, how long are we going to suffer various forms of discrimination and on what grounds does the previous speaker discriminate against people over the years against some younger MPs, or on the basis of the profession? I believe that perhaps the previous speaker did not hear or understand Mr. Atlagic, who was talking about abuses in the purchase of software. Obviously, the previous speaker understands the abuses of software procurement, and I agree that Mr. Atlagic knows nothing about the abuses in software procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14289	Please, would you like to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Jovica, you after the amendment? (Alexander Jovičić, from the post: By amendment. ) (Marko Atlagic, from the post: After the amendment. Wait a minute. You may answer by amendment, but I cannot give you a replica based on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, wait, pick up the amendment, and before that, Minister Nikola Selakovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14290	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to return to what Mrs. Karavidic and I have discussed. Just to be clear, why were European experts against introducing alarming security? Because it was a request that led to the potential victimization of the alarming officer in every court procedure, because, for example, the one who does, let's say, mobbing over the employee because he revealed some information that is harmful to the public interest, so the one who did the mobing, he aims to prove that the alarmer did not act securely and in good faith. Finally, a court case that needs to protect the public interest and to protect the man who pointed to a violation of that public interest is turned into a lawsuit against that man who has had the courage to do so. And that tells us unequivocally the experience of the case-law of rare, rare states that possess the legal protection of alarmers and that is as the best judicial protection of alarmers. That's the only reason. There's nothing else, because this employer, who is both economical and in every other respect, is much stronger than the alarmer himself, all of his strengths and resources, is moving against him. That's why one Great Britain, the longest in Europe, has these legal solutions, wiped it out about a year ago. So I absolutely appreciate your good intentions, and I love it when we have a debate where we exchange strong arguments, this is one reason. Far from anyone else wanting to threaten the alarmer now, or to give him some partial protection. No, I don't. Language this may seem to be more protective as an alarmer, but in practice, unfortunately, it hurts him a lot more. That was the only reason why we were so limited in the legal formulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14291	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14292	Chairman, General, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I still think that the law is extremely good and that it is one of the best in the region and one of the best in Europe, as the minister himself said, according to the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights. As for running software on VMA, I didn't bring out a boulevard's press. The 2011 State Auditor, four times more expensive than the whole. I may not know how to read, but I didn't finish third Belgrade high school and I was the worst student in the history of that high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14293	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14294	Thank you, Your Honor. As far as this amendment is concerned, we can conclude that by adopting such an amendment, setting such conditions makes it virtually impossible to give the alarmer adequate protection and Mr Selakovic has made arguments here, established arguments why this amendment cannot be accepted. As far as these figures we've heard here, and it's important and related to the amendment, because I'm, like, the alarmer, at this point I want to stress that it doesn't matter if we know what the software is, and neither you nor I, it's completely irrelevant, but it's worth 800,000 euros being thrown away. I can turn it into 3,840 pensions in this country that someone threw away, your pensions and all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As an alarmer, in 2012, I pointed to great corruption when we talk about King Alexander's Boulevard, where six and a half million euros were thrown. I can turn that into 31 thousand pensions again, and Serbian citizens remain deprived of 31 thousand pensions. Also, underground containers, you're a fellow citizen and I, we have underground containers that don't mean anything. I end up, 10m euros when we turn into pensions, and we hear that some parties are pushing here, it's 48 thousand pensions that we've denied to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because we may not have had brave alarmers, because maybe these people haven't protected and kept the law, and that's why I think we have to approach this problem completely adequately, to protect these people, that no one ever has to deny a single pension to our pensioners who have raised this city and I believe that these 50,000 pensions that we've thrown out of the country because of various corruption affairs, ladies and gentlemen, someone has to pay back, and we have to do with the policy we're conducting in the Republic of Serbia, responsible policy, we want to allow pensioners in the next period when we raise the country, they have pensions from the budgets, and not pensions from credits like you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14295	The word is Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14296	Thank you. I think the atmosphere and performances of fellow MPs in the hall are in favour of accepting an amendment of colleagues with Branko Karavidic, who signed the amendment because it is about security. It needs to be completely conscienceless, and God gives me no honor and no integrity, so he thinks it's allowed in public business to give away labels, slanders, and lies and call it the defense of the right to be an alarmer. About that... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14297	I'm sorry, I didn't turn it off. Sign up again, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14298	I trust you, Mr. Chairman, that you have not ruled out, and I know that technical problems are happening, absolutely fine. So, as I said, having a conscience for the spoken word here is simply required as a need to vote for this law because the will to express everything that we have heard here in the defence of the law, regardless of whether it is based on facts or based on procedures that are under way, shows that it is easy to be without conscience, without honor and without integrity, and that no alarmer should allow himself to do so, so it is not bad to classify security, regardless of why the minister fully sees it as a danger that the alerter's information is related to both his characteristics and his security at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14299	I'm really sorry, I really didn't, the system went down. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, after the amendment. Here you go. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14301	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14302	You have no right to a replica. The amendment, which is added after Article 5, the name of the member and member of the 5a, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14303	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, guests from the Ministry of Justice, colleagues and fellow MPs, in this amendment, I have proposed some rights that should be given to local anti-corruption forums. I would like to meet the public that only 10 local self-governments in Serbia have formed the decisions of local anti-corruption forum assemblies and I can tell you that these are very good working bodies that control the work of local self-government, mayor, director of city enterprises. We asked through this amendment their rights and guarantees to be the same as the other alarmers. Through some examples they had, for example, in Nis, there is one of the local anti-corruption forums in particular, and in the previous term, when the DS led the town of Nis and now that it runs the SNS, the local anti-corruption forum is something that is good, which points to some irregularities in the work of certain enterprises or in the work of the mayor himself. This amendment requires that they have the right to alarm while they are in office and one year after the term of office, since these brave people are opening some topics that are not pleasant to the local government. Through one example, I have the right to say her name, given that she gave me authority, Valentina Krstic, who is a member of the local anti-corruption forum in Nis, which went through one goal in obtaining alarming status, reported corruption in the KPD itself in Nis, corruption stealing the tin, corruption stealing some other things. She first spoke to KP Home's manager, after which she received one suspension. Then she objected to the directors of all the prison units, so she didn't get an answer either. She reported the case to the court, so the court rejected it, after which she was suspended from work. This example shows that these alarming people, people who have so much courage and who do not belong to any political option but are the only ones who have developed awareness that we really have to fight corruption, not as political parties, but as citizens. I understood it just like that – that we have to send a message to the citizens and encourage them, to encourage them to point out problems in their collective, to point out problems in their city, in their municipality, and that these corruptions that the Republic Government cannot see, or know what is happening in some small areas under Sava and Danube, or in the north or west of Serbia, that citizens have the right and the opportunity to say – in my collective I doubt that the director of the company had anything to do with some tender, that something had been embezzled, and that they had no consequences. I believe that these anti-corruption forums at the bar are a good thing and that the other local environments, in order to fight corruption, should be adopted and these working bodies formed and through local anti-corruption forums, i.e. These bodies, citizens, are encouraged to report corruption at the bar and that they point to corruption. I think this is a good thing and that we should give them support, given that they open up certain topics that are not at all pleasant to them in these small environments, where they cannot get a pass to some national frequency, to some national media, but to guarantee their rights and practical protection from the state itself, that they can freely and uninterruptedly fight every form of corruption. My amendment was directed in that sense. I have contacted them and others, in Serbia there are 10 local self-governments that have done and voted in city halls to establish these working bodies, so I think they deserve the support and help of the state to control them even more, whoever is in power. Authorities are being replaced at the bar and you know yourself that there are different combinations of different parties, you have DS somewhere in power, SNS, SPS, so these local anti-corruption forums are something that's good and something that's fighting corruption itself at the bar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14304	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14305	The Honorable Chairman, very respectful of the previous speaker with whom we work very nicely here, especially in the constructive improvement of the law, i.e. the proposed legal texts, I must say that I do not fully understand what you wanted with this supplement, or an additional member to achieve. The alerter status exists where a person in connection with a working engagement or other relations referred to in Article 2 indicates certain illegal procedures, illegal actions in the body in which he works, and precisely because he points out such actions, or such actions, is at risk of being put into a more unfavourable position by the employer. The proposed additional member is required to enjoy alert status during the term of his term of office as a permanent member of the local, province or republican anti-corruption body. So you can have, according to this member, a member of such a body who, in a year, two or four years of his term, points out nothing, and enjoys some alarming status. The opposite is the intention, the intensity of the legislator. You've listed a case that I'm very familiar with, because it's an employee within the justice ministry's jurisdiction. Therefore, it is the person employed in a particular criminal correctional institution who, because of the indication of certain illegal procedures, was brought into a more unfavourable position, was given the status of alarmer. The injustice was righted against her, she was returned to work and the matter was resolved. So that's why it's very important, I understand what you're saying, and that's what's rated as bad in the law model. The alarm can be any physical face, period. That's what that attitude said. No, it must be a person who suffers certain consequences due to alarming and suffering and the consequences of his working relationship. I apologize for saying this for a while, but I just wanted to make this clear. Thank you. (Dusan Milisavljevic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14306	Mr. Milisavljevic, you do not have the basis for the replica, but you are right, since you still have time to discuss the amendment further, but we must respect the order, so I will give you a later word. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14307	Thank you. Dear fellow ministers, I know that my colleague, Milisavljevic, always makes good suggestions, but I don't see why we should limit something to a year if the alarming status has every right to any physical person who is pointing to any injury. Therefore, why should we separate one group and make it only during this particular period of time? I think it's totally unacceptable. I don't know what kind of protection you've been thinking about in those years if it's clear and precisely defined by this law when it comes to alarming? Therefore, any natural person who points to an injury or in his work organization, a violation of the law, or in any procedure, who suffers certain conconsequences, has this law adequate protection. I don't think you were thinking of some bodi-gard security guard or a car blinker? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14308	The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14309	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't think this is a good suggestion. If you're asking me honestly, I think it's pretty demagogue. Why? First, there is obviously protection here and it is required to provide only protection to people who would be potential members of certain anti-corruption bodies, and the most respected proposer here has told us about some small people in municipalities and so on, and they are not protecting themselves at all with this amendment. This amendment protects only members of certain, I say, anti-corruption bodies that could possibly be established, but they are also protected in a rather pointless way, as suggested here, that you, let's say, can be protected as long as their mandate lasts and possibly a year later. In doing so, the minister is right when he says – why should we start giving them alarm status when he may not do anything, but let's say he does. And what about after a year of those when it's up, can these people then be in the wind, not to be protected at all? So, I really think that something like this is extremely unnecessary and, of course, it should throw this away. I have to remind you, in time, when we talk about protecting these people, we had an example, let's say, Mrs. Verice Barac, Minister, you remember well, she was a member and president of the Anti-Corruption Council. I'm sorry, there are no politicians, especially from the then ruling coalition from Dinkic to I don't know who, who didn't hit her hard for what she was saying, so I didn't see anyone wanting to give her any protection at the time, even though she was one of the better public alarmers with their views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14310	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14311	Dear President, Mr. Minister, the amendment is to help in the overall effort of the state and the Serbian society to really tackle corruption, to strengthen these people who are in local anti-corruption forums through this amendment, that with much more freedom and courage they attack some topics that are ticky in local environments, which the Republic government cannot really see, because you cannot follow more than 200 and some municipalities, there are different directors in all these municipalities. Just these people, I know about Nis, and I know about a few other small environments, which are brave, but should he get into this conflict with the mayor, with the director of some company, which may be the president of a party at a bar, which is in power, to suffer unpleasantness? He is already beginning to wonder whether to enter into such a single debate and report such corruption as exists. This is how they would be strengthened and supported, the wind in their backs would be given to them if they were really still braver to fight potential corruption, which, I tell you, definitely exists in different environments and at different levels. It wasn't a proposal to be a year. The proposal is that as long as their mandate lasts in a local anti-corruption forum and a year after the end, due to some numerous examples where they have not dared to show any corruption, and it has happened. My intention was absolutely well-intentioned, that in order to campaign against corruption, which destroyed our society, it would continue to tear it apart, to provide support to some people at the place, and to say, you have support, you are free to fight, you will still have the support of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14312	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you, it is so clear that through the presentation of the Minister and through Vesna's presentation and through Djukanovic, it is really too much to discuss this amendment. I suggest we move on. Please Orlic and Jasmina Obradović, because if I understand that I am not a lawyer, I am counting on everyone to be clear. Thank you for understanding. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to the name of the Member and Article 8. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister to plead on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14313	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14314	I find the minister has accepted the amendment, so the Parliament will decide on this amendment in voting day. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 8th amendment in the same text. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14315	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, dear guests, this amendment is, above all, in line with the general state of society. He's confused. For that reason, we suggested the next change. In accordance with Article 8, Article 1 is replaced by the following: “The official who provides the information in the course of his official duties is not an alerter”. The present position 1 in this case becomes point 2. The explanation is quite clear. A proposal like this is confusing. I'll state for what reason. Based on the existing definitions in this proposal, the official is already an alerter because there is no provision that would prescribe that the delivery of information by the official is not an alarm. In addition, according to existing definitions, the delivery of such information constitutes the disclosure of information relating to its work engagement. Therefore, a provision stipulating that an official in such situations has the same protection as an alarmer ultimately does not make much sense. Such a norm would be necessary and would only make sense if there were another one to point out that it was not considered by alarming the performance of the official duty. The adoption of this amendment would remove uncertainty and existing confusion, and we think that this amendment would help to make this proposal much clearer and much more adequate than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14316	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14317	Dear Chairman, we believe that such an amendment should not be adopted and we believe that any citizen may be an alerter. For example, we also have an official person who works in a health care facility, so according to that difolt, he is an official person, but he needs some protection if he appears as an alarmer and points to an irregularity. On the other hand, I as a citizen, not now as a national MP, completely objectively, as an alarmer, want to ask the president of the city committee of one party – why, for example, One woman who is employed in public service, at RTS, a respected manager, if she is already getting paid by the state, why is she campaigning all over the villages and cities for the head of the parliamentary group on the other hand? And we can ask for that as an answer. It is about Olivera Kovacevic, who has been campaigning for the new DS president all over the villages, implementing politics, convincing people in that policy and working on public service and receiving salaries from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Here, we are looking for an answer, if Mr Bozovic is not already ready to respond, let the new candidate for the DS be answered, Mr Stefanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14318	Please, Mr. Jovic, we agreed that you don't call people names. You can give examples. I'm asking you not to do that in the future. The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, the Honored Minister Selakovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I believe that a recently injured member of 106 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenovic, in which paragraph 1 states that the speaker can only speak about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. We are now discussing a single amendment to Article 8, which among other MPs here was proposed by MP Mr Bozovic. Mr. Jovicic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, reported to discuss the amendment and instead of doing so, mentioned the public service leaders here, talked about their engagement here and there, and I do not see, dear Mr. Arsenovic, that this has anything to do with the content of the amendment that Mr. Bozovic also proposed to Article 8 of our bill. Dear Mr Arsenovic, I think it is necessary to record here that Mr Jovicic, for the second time today, has broken the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by not speaking about the subject and, as Mr Arsenovic, to the MPs of the opposition here, you are giving notices on the basis of article 109, always without reason, as it was today, so far you have had several opportunities to give the measure of caution, because anyone who violates the Rules of Procedure deserves first warning, and then the measure of caution. My request, dear Mr Arsenovicu, is that you apply the provisions of this Rules of Procedure equally to all MPs, whether they represent parties from the government or parties from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14320	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I owe you a comment. I'm obliged to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. First, I think Mr. Jovicic was talking about the amendment. I listen to good people, I really follow. He did mention, first it wasn't at the beginning of the name, but only to the person, etc., so then at the end of the day the name and I asked him not to do it anymore. The Rules of Procedure say well, please allow us to read the Rules of Procedure, if intervention removes the consequences, it is considered that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I believe that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is your right to plead in the voting day as well. On what basis, Bozovic? (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. Replica? No, no, Mr. Bozovic. First of all, there are no replicas on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14321	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for saying that I've spoken according to the amendment, but I'd just like to see a violation of article 107. The esteemed previous ones said that he doesn't understand what it has to do with it, but I think if someone who works, I don't say who, at the RTS Service, goes and activates for someone who's in one party...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14322	No, no, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14323	I didn't say the name and last name, and here I apologize, and that's Olivera Kovacevic, and that's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14324	It's a replica. By amendment only. Balsha, I'll give you my word, but first I must respect the order. The word first has Djukanovic, by amendment, and so do you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14325	As for the amendment itself, I have to admit that it was a dilemma for me whether to accept something like this or not, but I think the board has taken the right measure, the Assembly Committee for Justice, where he managed to find that environment somewhere to define all of this. I'll agree that someone who performs an official duty and learns some information from that, it would be pointless for you to give him the right to protection, because it's his job. Of course, when a police officer notices that there's corruption within the MUP itself, he'd have to do something like that. It's stupid to be given such protection. You have, like, a different situation. What if a traffic policeman accidentally finds out from his colleague or finds out about, for example, severe abuses in the MUP during public procurement for some sector that has nothing to do with traffic police. The question now arises: should he be protected or not? I think you should provide protection if you are an alarmer. I will read what the Committee has proposed as an amendment, which is - a person who has provided information in the course of his official duties has the right to protect as an alerter, if he makes it likely that he has been taken a harmful action for the purpose of providing information. I think this is a good measure, and this is something we've been prepared to support on the board, and this is the kind of amendment, which was submitted by the promoters on the opposite side, that's pretty unspeakable, and I don't think it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14326	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Mr. Bozovic, by amendment? (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. You have no chance of replicating. I've never seen anything in Mr. Djukanovic's speech... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14327	Mr. Jovicic reported after the amendment, and at that moment he mentioned my name... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14328	It's okay, Mr. Bozovic, but I can't get into it. I wasn't there when it happened and I can't give you my word. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: We are talking about my amendment, the proposal I signed. I'm afraid I can't give you my word. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic-Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the people, we have submitted an amendment to Article 8 which reads: “The official person has the right to protection as an alarmer if he makes it likely that he has been taken a harmful action for his official duty. ” We have suggested that after these words, "officer duties" be added to the words "in accordance with the law". The proposed amendment further provides that an official will be entitled to protection as an alerter only if he suffers retaliatory action or has performed his official duty in accordance with the law and other regulations. Unless a member is completed in the manner proposed by this amendment, the possibility of certain persons, who are sanctioned for not fully complying with the rules, shall be opened to seek protection as alarmers. This way further protects the public interest, as it is in the public interest that official duty cannot be done at any other time, but in accordance with the regulations and thus further protects the integrity of institutions and those performing their official duties. The government did not accept the amendment with an explanation that Article 8. The bill adequately and sufficiently provides social protection to alert officials, given that the bill explicitly prohibits the abuse of alerts. In this regard, the bill provides precise protection for alarmers which removes the possibility that persons who have been sanctioned for failing to perform their official duties in accordance with the rules are seeking protection as alarmers. We believe that the argument of the Government has nothing to do with the amendment, because under the bill of law, the abuse of alarm exists when information is delivered that is not true and the alarmer knows it or when it seeks the opposite benefit. Moreover, as we have already pointed out in the discussion, the ban on alarming abuse is not sanctioned anywhere in this law. Our amendment refers to the fact that persons who perform official duties in accordance with the regulations have the right to protection in the capacity of the alarmer, i.e. to prevent it, not to happen, in the light of the practice, that someone who refused to execute the order assumed, because it is not in accordance with the law, allegedly ends up being deployed to another post with a lower salary or being fired because of a change in systemisation. We ask the Government to read the law more carefully and to begin to give reasons that make more sense and which are really about amendments, and to reconsider our amendment and adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14330	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14331	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 8 clearly states "the official has the right to protection as an alarmer, if he makes it likely that he is being taken a harmful action due to his official duties. “, and the amendment proposes to add, i.e. I think that we should bear in mind that we have accepted the amendment of the Committee, which it has obtained, that is to say, where "persons who have provided information in the course of their official duties have the right to protection as an alerter, if it makes it likely that a harmful action has been taken against it for the purpose of providing information". In order not to lead the controversy now about what you wanted or not, I am convinced that you had good faith and the will to improve a member, but I think this amendment to the Committee, which has been accepted, is much more precise and better defined by this legal situation than is the original text of the bill. In any case, thank you for the good will to amend the text of the law, but I think that the amendment of the Committee has achieved more well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14332	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14333	How much time do I have left for the head of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14334	You've got plenty of time. Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14335	It's relative enough, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14336	If you want precise, 14 minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14337	Thank you. That's a lot more specific already. counterpart Biljana Hasanovic raised a very important issue by speaking about the amendment. Minister Selakovic, the question arises -- does this law adequately sanction the possible abuse of alarming status? Namely, the head of the SNS parliamentary group today said the words – from today you will have six million and three hundred, I think, alarmers in Serbia. So all citizens in Serbia have been alarming from today. What does that mean, Mr. Selakovic? Your government and you have adopted some plans that will leave a significant number of people in the public sector out of work in the coming period. Suppose one situation, that one suggests that it may be declared a technological surplus and that, for that reason, it would be a cause for him to gain alarm status for himself. The law says he can't be changed by some acquired rights, to generalize that definition. Imagine today, you were witnesses when a fellow MP here accused the public's protector of taking £80,000 to draft an alarming law. You are this MP, under the circumstances you were here and you were honest to the end and said that Mr. Jankovic did not take a single dinar. So he refused the fee. Imagine how much people in Serbia will be like a folk MP with such morality and honor who will try to accuse someone else to protect his personal position. Is that impossible to imagine, Minister Selakovic? What have we done to ensure that this alarming institute does not turn into a fundamental contrast that Mr Babic spoke of today, in the sense that all citizens of Serbia will be alarmers? I don't just know how he counted those who aren't adult, I don't think they have the right to be alarmers. Is that right? (Nikola Selakovic, from the place: They do. They're right? Okay. So, Mr. Babic had a pretty good reckoning that the alarmers would all... . I don't know if the fetus is right. There isn't. Mr. Selakovic, the answer to the key question is whether you have protected through this law, those affected by the fact that someone will use the alarmor position to harm the reputation of another, in order to protect their own position. Is there such a mechanism? I didn't find it in law. So there's no sanction for someone who presented himself as an alarmer, who gained alarm status, and then it turns out that that information was false, false, false.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14338	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14339	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very happy to answer the questions asked, although it is not in the strictest sense of this amendment, in my personal opinion. Does the law adequately sanction the possibility of abuse of alarming status? There is no ideal law, to understand one thing, but I am thinking and that is one of the reasons why the experts of the Council of Europe, so from the United Kingdom and the United States, which are not experts of the Council of Europe, but are people with great integrity and experience, why did they say that this solution was given in the proposal much better than the solution in the law model? Because according to the model of the law on protection and alarming status, one man decides. A state-of-the-art official, and here you have a situation for the court to decide. You'll accept and admit it's much better when it's done by the entire court system than when it's done by one single man, even if he's the best and the smartest man in the world. I think it gives one man, one person, one functioner so much authority, creates the possibility of incomparably greater abuses. On the other hand, we were both there during the entire debate, and I don't remember a single MP accusing the Guardian of citizens. I remember that a national MP, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, said that 80,000 pounds were received for lawmaking, and I felt that it was really necessary to say that the Protector of the Citizens was a man who gave it up and said I would not take a single penny, not a single pound or a dollar, as you said in the previous debate. To the People's MP, not what I think, I think that's great, the People's MP is a constitutionally guaranteed immunity to the words he says here, even if they were the greatest untruth in the world. I was first here to be told that I was taking tens of thousands of euros for not knowing what, and I don't remember any of you standing up to protect me in that, and I didn't attack an MP for what he said. It's his parliamentary right. It's the flow of the democratic system. The ethics of responsibility is something that needs to be handled by a MP and every public official. What have we done to ensure that this alarming status is not cast into its opposite? That is exactly what we have greatly improved the model of the law that existed before this bill was drawn up. Is there a law that will absolutely in every possible volume, segment, the situation to prevent the abuse of that status, does not exist. But when it's appreciated by the court, it's something that's much better, and when someone dares to identify themselves as an alarmer, from some completely tenth intention, so it turns out that he's abused his status, he's going to get fired. Because the temporary measure that the court imposes is a temporary measure that makes it impossible to do damage to him because he supplied information that is being alarmed, and if he has cheated, then in the first place, he has deceived himself, not the court, not the employer. That's why they'll suffer the consequences, but you can't threaten a law alarmer. This alarm system is completely collapsing. It has shown the experience of the few countries that have this, but you mustn't threaten it - if you don't do it and it will happen to you next. No, the law does not come from that, the law comes from the premise that the alarmer needs to be protected and imposes a reverse burden of proof on the employer himself, to prove that the alarmer was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14340	Thank you, Mr. Minister. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. That's our amendment, too. ) (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: You have not read their amendment. I don't understand, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the site: Please explain. You haven't read our amendment. Mr. Pavicevic, we've been through that amendment a long time ago. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the site: Please explain. ) Mr Pavicevic, I will allow you to explain, but we are an amendment to Article 8, which was submitted in the same text by Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic and together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic we have passed. We are currently on the amendment to Article 8 submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Branka Karavidic. Mrs. Karavidic spoke on the amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Let me explain. You'll explain, but I just don't get it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and the Honorable Guest, I have here a record of the amendments. It is true that the amendment is the 14th amendment, which is identical in content, but not entirely in reasoning, but also in the amendment that was defended by Mr Bozovic. But here are 15 amendments not specifically read here as amendments, amendments by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic to Article 8. It's a bill of law. I'm just asking you to give me the right to try to convince the minister in two minutes to accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14342	Mr. Pavicevic, you're a professor... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Docent. I'm counting on you to listen very carefully. I expected you to listen very carefully to me. So that amendment has passed and we are currently on Amendment 15. Mr Bozovic spoke on the amendment and we moved to the amendment to Article 8 submitted by a group of MPs... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Mr Arsenovic did not read our amendment, Mr Becic. It is. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: When? I sat there the whole time. Mr. Pavicevic, yes. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: No, but come on, there are more amendments. I'll get it. Mr. Pavicevic... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Two minutes, Mr. Becic. ) We cannot technically go back to the amendment that was before the amendment that we are now talking about. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: The amendments must not be skipped. ) Mr. Bozovicu, have you spoken according to your amendment? (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Yes. ) It is an amendment in the same text that was read and where you were as you were saying at that time was to speak Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I signed up and did not get the word. ) Mr Pavicevic, no one was in the system when you spoke at that time and when we moved on to the next amendment. So you can't convince me of something that wasn't there. Members of the 9th Amendment were brought together by the MPs... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Babić, you can't do the replica because we've already set out for the second amendment, and that's why I only gave Mr. Pavicević an explanation. So you have nothing to do when it's changed to the second amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Balša Bozovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14343	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, dear ministers, dear guests, amendment to Article 9 in accordance with this proposal would read, quote – a person seeking information about information has the right to protection as an alarmer if it makes it likely that a harmful action has been taken to search for this data, goes and continues to be an amendment – a comma, and only the request has not violated the law. Therefore, the failure to adopt this amendment would have protected those information seekers from taking some harmful action because, in a letter requesting some information, they also provided protected information about a person or a false criminal charge. The amendment avoids these problems in the end, and we think that this is also the purpose of adopting this law in a comprehensive way, and it is logical that these persons meet the same conditions that are required for the alarmers themselves, for example. in Article 5, but this would require greater intervention on this Article of the draft law. These changes are the consequence of Amendment 3 to Article 5, which we have also submitted. So, what exactly is this about? We have a situation that has been happening since recently, and it has been media freedoms, that the Agency for Business Registers has recently adopted a rule that everyone who asks for certain data from the Agency for Business Registers has to register, say why they're looking for information, about who or as simple as it is, has cast a shadow of some things, and we think it was a threat to media freedoms and, of course, the right to inform. What this amendment prevents, allow me another sentence just to finish...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14344	You have the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14345	Thank you. It's that these situations and these cases warn that you can't blame someone or do some negative action or take revenge just because he wanted some information as an alarmer, and he's doing some work, to get it out to the public. We think this amendment puts this thing in order. We think it is very important that this part of the sentence that we have proposed through this amendment be entered into the full draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14346	I thank Mr. Bozovic. The government minister, Mr Nikola Selakovic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14347	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened very carefully to my colleague Bozovic, and there's only one thing I don't understand – how does someone looking for information hurt the law? Approximately, the essence of your amendment is that. Your discussion contributes to the original text of the members of the law. If we add this, then today this is - a person seeking information about information has the right to protect as an alarmer if it makes it likely that a harmful action has been taken against him because of the search for this information, and you add it, and it is only by not seeking harm to the law. How can someone ask for information to harm the law? Just tell me. How is it possible for you or me as a citizen of some public authority to look for some information and by looking for that information we violated the law? It could hurt the law by someone who gives us information that can't give us. That's right. Let's just say you're looking for information from the BIA about the state of national security of the RS and you're looking for a dangerous person who currently intends to? They can't give you that information. They can give you a face number, etc. I've given one perhaps extreme example. So the law can hurt the one who owns the information, and the one who's looking for it can hurt her?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14348	I thank the ministers. National MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14349	Just one more time to make things even clearer for the public. The failure to adopt this amendment would have protected those information seekers from taking some harmful action because, in a letter requesting information, some data were also provided with protected identity data or false criminal charges. So, are you making yourself clear now? And that is a possibility unless this amendment is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14350	The word has a minister in the government, Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14351	Thank you. You know what, if someone puts out false information about you or me, it's the subject of a special crime and each of us will be held accountable if they bring out any such brutal lies or lies. So it's an object, but it won't be protected because what it says is false and then it won't enjoy the protection of alarmers, absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14352	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. Finally, here you go, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Becic, the chairman, the respected Minister Selakovic, the honored guests, we have submitted the amendment to Article 9 and here I want to say two things about the content of this amendment. First, I see that Mr. Selakovic during the debate, here, and for this member of the law refers to a principle that is really very important to me in politics, which is the principle of responsibility ethics. But it is not enough, dear Mr Selakovic, to refer to that principle, but to fully act as minister in accordance with the principle of ethics of responsibility. This would mean, dear Mr Selakovic, the following: that of the 27 amendments, how much Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted to this bill, accept, not only two, as you have done, probably to the surprise of SNS MPs, both Orlic and Jovic and Atlagic and Mrs Barisic and Mrs Pilja, etc., but all 27 Mr Selakovic. Let me tell you, if you don't mind, I'd also hand you our new mobilization program after this answer, because it has seven principles, and the ethics of responsibility is only the first day, you study the remaining six. I hope you don't mind. The second thing about this amendment, here's what Article 9 says, I also demand a kind of clarification if I didn't understand something - a person looking for information has the right to protect as an alarmer if it makes it likely that a harmful action has been taken to search for that information. We're just suggesting that we put that one stuck and that after the comma stands the text - and only by not asking for harm to the law. It seems to us that this text, as you have suggested, does not explain clearly enough, purely because of the accuracy, which information can be applied to and what is the possible intention and that there is a possibility of abuse. We just seemed to need further precision, make this clear, in order not to have the possibility of abuse of the content of this bill, Mr Selakovic. So I don't understand why you didn't adopt this amendment, so it would be three out of 27, for example.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14354	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14355	Here, let me explain on one picturesque case, if that's okay with you. For example, a person of the NN submits a request for information, works in the tax administration, submits a request for information on whether a public AA register earned more than 180,000 euros in September. Now that NN face probably doesn't even know that it doesn't exist in the state of Serbia, and it submitted a request for information. A notorious lie was made in the request. Do you think that if, for some other reason, it is determined by the alerter's status that he should not have that status because he made a lie in his request for information? I don't think you should. He asked for some information, he didn't get that information, so what would be treated differently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14356	Thank you, Mr. Minister. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. I don't see in the presentation of a minister of anything that would allow me to give you a replica. I can't, only if Mr. Secretary wants it, but I don't think he wants it, because there's no need. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Jankov Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14357	Just for the head of the parliamentary group one question, I'm reaching out to the minister. What amount do notaries earn, and if that question were not false if a potential alarmer said so? Now you've said 180 grand or how many euros to be a lie, and what wouldn't be a lie?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14358	Mr. Veselinović, it's okay, you used your rights and your time. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: By amendment. Mr. Pavicevic, you don't have time for the amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I have five minutes. You spent five minutes ago. Mr. Pavicevic, I guess you didn't get enough sleep last night, and during today you slept through some events, so you forgot that you spent your five minutes. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: I think the system is blocked. It's something misrepresented. ) Amendments to which members and members of 9a were added after article 9, in the same text, were submitted jointly by the MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic and jointly Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Pavicevic, you have the opportunity to make sure that your amendment doesn't happen again if we haven't given you our word. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Pavicevic, you have the opportunity to make your amendment, so that we do not give you our word again. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14359	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished ministers, dear guests, therefore, after Article 9, article 9a, which reads - participation in research or survey, Article 9a - information that is revealed in anonymous research, survey or other confidential address is not considered to be alarming. Then - the informer of Article 1 of this article and identity discovered enjoys protection as a buffer in accordance with this law. Then, the right to protection under Article 2 does not exclude the right to compensation for a breach of confidentiality. With that in mind, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a question. This amendment allows the protection of persons who are not willing alarmers to be protected, but it becomes a violation of confidentiality rules, whether it is an anonymous study, a poll or a confidential address, for example. Doctor. I think you have a lot of these examples in practice. In case their identity was discovered, they would enjoy protection as alarmers. In addition to exercising the rights under this law, they would naturally have the right to compensation for damages, which violated confidentiality, whoever it was. We think that this amendment is very good and very good, and I would like that, if you agree with Mr Selakovic, with your argument that you agree, that this amendment is something that would also solve a case that you did not provide for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14360	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word is submitted to the amendment by Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14361	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Mr Becic, the Honored Minister Selakovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I believe that all MPs, including members and representatives of the Serbian Government here, need attention to be directed towards our amendment number 6 to Article 9 after which Article 9a is added. I would try to convince the MPs, first of all, that this amendment should be accepted, referring to this picturesque example mentioned by Mr Selakovic, and to our debate regarding the previous amendment. For example, simply, it concerns Article 9, now that Mr Selakovic says – let's imagine that a single NN person has been contacted by an information that contains an overview that a notary, a public notary, has, for example, earned up to 180,000 euros in our country in September of the month, and there is doubt, that there is no such person. I now have one supplement concerning this amendment to Article 9. Let's imagine, dear Mr Selakovic, that there is also a minister in the Serbian government who says to both that NN person and others that he can check one button for how many receipts of all public notebooks, 93, as far as I know in Serbia today, and that he can immediately tell that NN person if there is one that has 180,000 euros. I then wonder how that “NN” face would then be treated and what kind of right face would have with regard to that minister who has the ability to press the button, but cannot press that button, so that Mr. Becic would not be as zealous as when he should take away the word from the opposition MPs here, because he presses the button, and it works every little bit, reduces the time. It's waiting now. Just do it, Mr. Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14362	Mr. Pavicevic, from what I've noticed, you've been saying 10 seconds longer, and just before you spoke 20 seconds longer. I see you have a vivid imagination, that you imagine things and just keep going. Members of the 10th and 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Branka Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have tabled an amendment that we propose to change, or extend the title above Article 10, so that it reads: "Protects the information that is the subject of alarming and alarming persons". This is why we propose to amend the name, and to add, accordingly, a new position 1 which reads: “The employer, or the authorised authority, is obliged to appoint a person authorised to receive information and conduct an alert procedure, which receives and process information and conducts an alert procedure with the employer, or in an authorised authority.” Further in the amendment, we propose that the number of views be aligned according to this amendment. The proposed amendment also extends data protection to information subject to alerts and data relating to this information independently of personal data. Given the importance of alarming and the fact that alarms are always carried out in the public interest, and that for the same reasons, protection is provided to the alarming officer if he suffers retaliatory action, we believe that the very information that is the subject of the alert should be protected. This is particularly important in situations where self-anxiety alarmers, even hiding their identity, provide that information. Protection is achieved by receiving and processing information that is the subject of an alert, i.e. information relating to such information, which reduces the possibility of an unauthorized handling of this information, as well as the possibility of this information being unauthorized, which could further jeopardise the public interest and identity of the alarmor. The government rejected this amendment by calling for Article 10 to be systematised within the general provisions on alerting and protection, and the proposed addition of the provision concerns procedures sufficiently regulated in Chapter III of the draft law and in the provisions of the draft laws governing the obligations of the employer in the context of internal alarming. In addition, the amendment proposed amending the title cannot be accepted, according to the Government, for the reason that the proposed addition of the provision does not justify changing the title, because the protection of information on the information subject to alerts and information relating to that information cannot, in itself, be provided by the fact that the designation of a person authorised to receive information and conduct an alert procedure and its conduct, as proposed in the amendment. According to us, as amendment promoters, the substance of the proposed amendment is the obligation not only of the employer, but of the authorised authority to appoint an authorised person and that this person is the only person authorised to receive that information. The introduction of this change in this particular article significantly reduces the possibility that data on violations of regulations, for example, about some corruption, which are the subject of alarming, as we like to say, girls in public, especially through various tabloids. This is now very present in our country and it is a common phenomenon that tabloids are announcing corruption affairs, announcing arrests and so on, which is very bad for creating a general atmosphere in society, as well as for creating a picture of Serbia in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14364	Thank you, Mrs. Hasanovic Korac. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14365	Thank you, Your Honor. This is an unacceptable amendment entirely, because here an employer is required to appoint a particular person to receive information, but also to conduct a procedure. That's impossible. I understand that, say, an employer has the authority of a person to receive information, but he can't handle it. The procedure shall be conducted by the competent authority. Let's just say, you have a report for corruption, how is this person going to conduct a procedure related to such a thing? You know who that's applying to, then. Again, I understand that there was something in good faith, but something like this is extremely inaccurate and vague simply cannot be accepted. I agree absolutely to throw something like this away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14366	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, dear ministers, dear guests, I am a member of the 11th proposal -- the abuse of alerts is forbidden, and the abuse of alerts is committed by a person who, I will read myself, delivers information that he knew was not true, under one. Two, in addition to requests for handling information that is being alerted, is seeking counter-judgment. The amendment is next. Items 1 and 2 are changed and said, point 1. – provide information that he knew was not true, complete or up-to-date, item 2. — in addition to the information to which the alert is carried out, it requires some unlawful benefit to itself or to another or to take an illegal action, it provides protected personality data, makes unverified claims as undoubtedly correct or otherwise knowingly violates the law. The concept of truth is not sufficiently explained by the bill itself, which, of course, can create problems in application itself. The proposed supplement, of course, aims to warn some of these problems, which can thus be predicted. On one occasion, however, I would ask Mr. Secretary to give us an answer. For example, when alarming is carried out by delivering a document indicating a breach of regulations, without any comments from the alarming officer, it will undoubtedly be true that the document is made up and that it indicates a violation of the law. But it can also be true, and the alarmer doesn't say it even though he knows it, or delivers other documents at his disposal, that the document is later updated and that the illegality has been removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14368	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14369	The proposed amendment, of course, should be rejected for two reasons. For reasons of non-compliance and for reasons of devising the basic concept of this law, which is the protection of alarmers, i.e. through the protection of alerters against crime and corruption. In fact, we cannot be sure, as regards Article 11, I would like to say that the proposer of this law, the Government, or the competent ministry of legal, core and precise language, says that the abuse of alerts is prohibited and lists two cases in points 1 and 2 when the abuse of alarms is committed, and when the person commits the abuse of alarms. The amendment promoter asks that information which he knew was not true be provided in point 1 of the amendment, add more - except that it knew that it was not true, delivered, or continued to be complete and that it was up-to-date. The question arises whether the person providing the information can have information that the information it delivers is complete, that is, up-to-date? Of course, this law, and every other law, consists of a series of members, who are mutually attached to each other and who are from one another, except that they are bonded and produced. I must point out that in this Code on the Protection of Alertors in Chapter Three, from Articles 12 to 20, in a precise, clear and concise manner, the procedure itself has been arranged. As far as the truth is concerned, I have to say that law is based on the basic concept, which is the concept of truth. The truth, of course, implies an agreement between fact and reality. All of these are the reasons why this amendment, the SNS, cannot accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14370	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The representative of the amendment is not in the room. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14371	I thank the chairman. The proposed amendment has shown a very good intention, that in the Corps of all that seems to be proposed by law, above all, one intensities to protect the good as is the fight against corruption, and it is doubtless a protected good, of extreme importance and the very text of the law improves in terms of its accuracy, in order to avoid potentially unequaled case law. In fact, Article 11 states as an element of such a provision that there is no protection for an alarmer seeking the opposite benefit. It is absolutely justified and it absolutely respects every kind of unreserved support. However, when we look into practice and look at the question, i.e. the notion of anti-legal benefit, we can automatically come into a situation, unequal practices, because the opposite uses include so-called. cash benefit, and it doesn't have to be just material, it can be immaterial. So both property and non-equity. In addition, the proposed amendment has also not been defined for whom an unlawful benefit is sought, whether for the alarmer himself or possibly for a third party. So it would be good to think about this very amendment and accept to specify the text itself, because it is about the possibility of obtaining both property and property, both for itself and for others. In this way, it would avoid any doubt in the very application of the text of this member, and as the distinguished colleague Batic sought certain clarifications and certain precisions in the norms themselves, the systematicisation of this law, and the SPS parliamentary group believes that this effect could be achieved this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14372	Members of the 12th Amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14373	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, dear guests, in Article 12 paragraph 4 at the end of the text, the word "publicity" is replaced by the words "greater number of persons directly referred to by the information". Therefore, the concept of public is not defined in the best way in the bill, and in order to eliminate this lack, a more tangible criterion is introduced, that information is made directly available to a number of designated or determined persons. This is one proposal that goes in favor of precision. The law must be clear, and otherwise, Mr. Jovicic will think for the most part that the alarmer and under this law has the right to protection, and it is not the alarmer who slanders, who speaks falsely at the expense of others, is not the alarmer who has the view that anyone who does not have the party's membership card, i.e. the party's party's party books, who has won the largest number of seats today, which does not mean that it will be so next time, is suspicious, that those media and those journalists who are not placed on the party's key are automatically suspicious and are being led by a hack and they are accused of a variety of untruths. I think it's very important in that case to define all things, so among other things, a team before and an amendment to make this law much clearer than the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14374	He has a word for the amendment, MP Alexander Jovicic. (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: "Replica" is wanted. Sign up, Mr. Granny. You, Mr. Jovic, by amendment or replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14375	Thank you, Your Honor. The previous speaker said - the major alarmer. Yes, as long as I live, I will be an alarmer against those who rob our country, who steal from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I am not ashamed to say it. If you, Mr. previous speaker, the president of the city board of one party were an alarmer in the city of Belgrade, today Belgrade would not be in charge of a billion euros. Belgrade would have no corruption affairs such as King Alexander's Bulevar, 6.5m euros thrown away, where all pensioners were denied 31,000 pensions from the job alone. Also, from underground containers where 10m euros were dropped, 41,000 pensions were denied for our citizens, including that software we talked about a little earlier, of 800,000 euros and 3,840 average pensions. If you were an alarmer, it wouldn't have happened, and I would have supported you. I will be an alarmer as long as someone robs and steals citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but that practice is over, because we want to contribute to such laws that all citizens in the Republic of Serbia have the right, the courage, and above all, the judicial protection to report what you were, who were every day, except for stealing and not dealing with the anti-corruption strategy, destroying all our public enterprises, all our banks that were liquid. We don't practice like that, and I'll be the one to remain a alarmer against people like you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14376	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14377	Replica. What was said earlier, that's exactly what I was talking about. So this is due to the vague provisions of the law, i.e. the vague provisions of the bill, that someone might think that the alarmer, which brings out a series of untrues to the account, is just like some people who at some point led, for example. The city of Belgrade, which is not in charge of a billion euros for the truth by the DS, but 385m euros, of which is built a bridge and kindergartens and schools and boulevards and social assistance that was very important in the city of Belgrade and care for the most endangered and all those infrastructure things that made Belgrade much better and better than it was before. I've never heard of what this city government has done in the past year, but well, it's probably going to come on that day and that moment. But precisely because of this behavior that creates, not just confusion, which creates not only anarchy in society, but one fear, fear of everything that comes from that opposite side. It's a model of behavior that reads - the silence there, it's your fault and that, you stole that and that. So, that's not how the government treats those who have different opinions, and that's why the DS suggested that the law frees us from fear, that cases like this, and that imaginary alarmers, so that they don't give themselves the right to fear and scare someone who isn't guilty, but has concrete results, it certainly doesn't have to worry, not even the Protector of the Citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14378	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14379	... I'm ending up, no public-important information trustee, no Anti-Corruption Agency. As long as the DS is in this house, we will defend them from those who want to intimidate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14380	Thank you, but don't ask about the bridge, from all kinds of access cars, I always get lost. Mr. Jovicic, on what grounds? (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: Replica. You don't have a chance, you can just by amendment. (Zoran Babic, from the place: How is there no?) ) Mr. Granny, are you going to lead the assembly or the chairman? So there's no possibility of a replica, because there's just no mention of either party or him. You can only get the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14381	Dear Chairman, I'm glad we heard the arguments today and, above all, the minister of justice why such amendments are pointless. This amendment certainly cannot be supported and today the story of opposition representatives is sping, as they want to give more protection to alarmers, and this law has precisely defined that alarmers are at this time the most protected in terms of ordinary citizens who can report corruption in public enterprises. Since we have heard here a series of baseless accusations, that the city of Belgrade is not in charge of a billion euros but slightly less, yes, Mr. previous speaker is right but he did not include public enterprises that are over-indebted. Why? Because he was pumping money out of public companies based on public procurement and a set-up of tenders, and the alarmers didn't have the courage to report it because they were living in fear, and today the MPs of the opposite party across the street, opposition parties, want a law on protection against fear or I don't know what. There's no need, Mr. Chairman. Every citizen in the Republic of Serbia has nothing to fear. There's nothing to be afraid of, because at any point he can report corruption, because the backbone of SNS policy certainly is the fight against corruption and organised crime, just against the corruption that brought 400,000 unemployed, just against the corruption that led over 500 public enterprises into bankruptcy, 160 enterprises that are in restructuring and almost no one will, because of this corruption that produced everything that was worth it, it was worth it, it was sold out into bankruptcy and someone took the money for it. That's why there's no reason for anyone to be afraid in this country to report something like that if it happens again. As far as this law is concerned, we have heard and adopted amendments that are meaningful. But these are completely pointless. As for the protection of alarming Serbia, the state, the legislation, the judiciary behind those who want to report irregularities in every public enterprise, and again, I will be as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia as an alarmer, because I do not want a situation like this to be repeated again in 2008 until 2012, when you handled only personal interests and not the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14382	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14383	Thank you. You know, against a formulation like this that was usually in the bill itself, it's the ones whose conscience isn't clear. You have to learn that all of us here are subject to absolutely every criticism in public. And if one of us stole something somewhere, so there's no reason to hide it, and it's getting to a bigger number of faces than the whole public has to know. That's what you need to learn. If you've never stolen anything and you haven't violated human rights or I don't know what's defined by the law itself, so there's nothing to be afraid of. Learn that every MP, every public official, every public figure, can absolutely be written about it and said whatever you want unless you insult someone's family, it's something that's not allowed and it can't be accepted. Anything else, I'm sorry you chose this job and you're obliged to put up with it. That's right, like it or not. You know, in the period when you were harassing the city of Belgrade, not one single letter, no media could appear about your city government and what she was doing. They just started showing up the first texts when you lost power, and why? Well, because you used to take direct blackmails, because the mayor at the time held a marketing agency that depended on the existence of all the media, because they depended on his advertising, i.e. of him, and of course no one was allowed to write anything then, and there were alarmers who even got fired because they wanted to bring something like that out, for example how much you owe public enterprises in Belgrade, you take commercial loans to pay people off. That is why today you have led the city to have a billion euros in debt. You see, it's a good thing there's a time like this where we can pass a law on the protection of alarmers and someone for our authority if we happen to dare steal something, to violate human rights, to have the right to alert the public and to be protected. We are not afraid of that, for our conscience is clean unlike you, whose conscience is obviously extremely, extremely upset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14384	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14385	Good afternoon. The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, above all, I expected to really hear an adequate explanation of the amendment proposed. Unfortunately, I only heard unargumented attacks and slanders. Such a policy of slander and assault is punished and punished in the last election. I can really say that they really literally understood that sentence from Winston Churchill that says that success is achieved by going from failure to failure, not losing enthusiasm, but that's a good thing. First of all, on account of this amendment to Article 12. The Code on the Protection of Alarmors, I can say, by proposing a solution and such a formulation in the mentioned Article 12 of the Law, has defined in a closer way how this and how it can be notified to the public, so there is an internal alarming, external alarming and public alert. However, by replacing the terms of the public and the formulation proposed by the amendments, which is, I quote, a larger number of persons, to whom the information is directly addressed, what is most important is to lose the essential meaning of this article, i.e. the essential meaning of this article, because the public is a term which is of broader importance and what is the most important, desired meaning, therefore, of this member I speak of. I also believe that the term of the public is a well-known term that does not have to be defined by the bill. I therefore suggest that this amendment not be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14386	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14387	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, immediately at the beginning to say that this amendment cannot be accepted for any more reason. If the amendment was accepted, then the full concept of this alarming law would fail. I don't think the opposition should think that anything that suggests it's their law and that's all good. I think Jovicic made a mistake when he said that some predecessor was supposed to be an alarmer so that the solutions would be good and that it wouldn't happen, to ruin this country. They, even if they had passed this law in 2003, would have put those alarmers off and they would have done what they were doing. So none of them would be, no matter what they pass that law. And this is how they ruined the country just because they didn't want alarms. They have no moral right to speak of this law, they have rules of conduct to speak, but they have no moral right to speak of anything that they have destroyed so much that they can no longer recover in a few years. So this amendment cannot be accepted in any case.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14388	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. On behalf of members 13th and Article 13th of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14389	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, the name of Article 13 and Article 13 are changed and read as follows: "The way information is revealed". Article 13. "The discovery of information contains data on violations of regulations, violations of human rights, public authority against the purpose of which it is entrusted, life-threatening, public health, safety, environment or large-scale threat data. A document containing information the alarmer does not have to sign or provide other information about himself. A person who has not acted in the manner laid down by the two of these members shall enjoy protection as an alerter from the moment of identity detection, provided that the other conditions prescribed by this law are met. The employer and the authorised authority shall also be obliged to act on an anonymous basis with regard to information under their powers, and in any event by verifying that the information is supported by verifiable data or evidence.’. In the very explanation that we have submitted to this amendment... Therefore, it refers to the contents of the memo or other address that makes the alert when it reveals the information. In order to provide the alarmer with legal protection from harmful actions at all, it is necessary that there is a reliable way to determine that a person has carried out the alarm. Such a thing, of course, that it is not possible to do unless one puts his own personal signature on a particular memo. The person who does not leave such information on himself may be exposed to a harmful action only if the person carrying out the retaliatory suspicion or investigating who supplied or published the information. Such persons would enjoy protection as alarmers if they were exposed to harmful actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14390	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Branka Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry there's no minister. I'm sure I'd convince him to accept at least part of this amendment. This amendment concerns Article 13. I wish we could all hear it one more time together. "The information contains data on the violation of human rights violations, the exercise of public authority against the purpose of which it is entrusted, the threat to life and public health, safety, the environment, as well as data to prevent damage to large scales." This is the attitude of this member that we have gotten the impression that the content of the information is actually given cumulatively, that there is no alternative, that anyone who wants to present information relating to any violations must contain just all of this. We suggested that instead of saying, “like ” the word “or ” be added. Amendments relating to both point 2 and point 3 are proposed. They aim to clearly determine that information can be disclosed in any way and that the alerter is not obliged to provide any information about himself, or that he is not obliged to disclose his identity, which is in accordance with the following position, that there is an obligation to act on anonymous notices. The fact that information can be disclosed in any way makes it impossible for such a procedure to be governed later by lower acts, which would impose on the alerter an obligation, for example, to provide information in writing. The following attitude foresees that the alarmer does not have to sign a document revealing information or that it does not have to disclose any information if it does not want to, thereby not affecting its right to protection. So he still has the right to protect as an alarmer. The reasoning we received from the Government says that the Government does not accept the amendment because the provision of the bill is sufficiently precise on the content of the information that is being disclosed, that it is possible information that may be the subject of disclosure. It is also sufficient to allow the Member 13th or so mentioned in the proposal for a law to clearly and summarise a specific way of revealing information that does not require further precision. Of course, once again, the Government rejects any precision and further leaves in its manner that the important issues are governed by a lower act, or act by a minister, and thus has confirmed that all of this is more like a farce and that the law is passed so that it can be dealt with by political inexperiences tomorrow, not to protect public interest. We believe that it is necessary for the law to clearly specify the way information is revealed, and this is how we predicted by our amendment, the fastest possible, because if it is left to sublegal acts, it can be very easy to make it difficult for sublegal acts to disclose information. That's how someone is given the right, but not the mechanism to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14392	Thank you. The minutes and 40 seconds have been spent since the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) Amendments to which the name of members and members of 13a was added after Article 13, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and jointly Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 14th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14393	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment is very clear. Simply, in Article 14(4), following the words "sacona", the point is replaced by a comma and the words are added: "and to publish it on its Internet presentation". I think the argument is too high, but I'll spend a few seconds. Therefore, in addition to the delivery of the alert rules, the amendment also provides for their publication on the employer's internet presentation, which allows for wider knowledge of the rules, but ultimately control of whether the employer has made a commitment. We think this is very important and if you are truly sincere in your intention, and Mr. Jovicic was authorized to defend this law, if you are truly sincere in your intention to resolve this matter completely clearly, openly and transparently and to give the alarmers the protection they deserve, this is one of the things that, in my opinion, if the minister agrees, should stand up and enter into that obligation on the Internet presentation, in order to control whether the employer has fulfilled his obligation, that it stands in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14394	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14395	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This article refers to the employer's obligations. In our amendment, we provided for the following words: "deliver", they add, "without delay", that a new position 5 would be added after Article 4, which would read: "The employer is obliged to provide a work relationship or any other relationship that implies a labour engagement within the meaning of a law governing working relations with the person employed with notice of the rights under this law. “ The existing item 5 becomes item 6, after which a new position 7 is added: “Information must contain the name, last name, place of work, contact phone and email address of the person authorised to receive information and conduct the alert procedure, which is published on the official employer’s website and on the employer’s advertising board.” We have provided the proposed amendment for solutions that can ensure a higher level of alarm protection. Namely, it is determined that each person employed must be informed of the rights under this law, and by publishing the data of the person authorised to receive the information, the mechanisms provided for by this law become more accessible and transparent, thereby also preventing any wandering in the identification of authorised persons, thereby preventing unnecessary dissemination of alarming and alarming data. Of course, this amendment was also rejected by the Government, with reasons that the employer's obligation to provide written notice to all persons employed, etc. We still believe that the government is avoiding any additional precision in any way possible. The government thinks it's enough when it doesn't set a deadline for something to be done. Then how does he imagine someone being sanctioned for not doing something unless it was determined by when he had to do something? So there are no deadlines. It's not enough obligation for an employer to name an authorised person if no one knows about it. The point is to know who's face is to whom the alarm can be reported. Another proof that the government wants this law to be a dead letter on paper is that it doesn't want to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14396	Thank you. A minute has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Just tell me what time you want to use.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14397	It's time for the head of the parliamentary group. I would like to emphasise our position both by colleague Biljana Hasanovic Korać and co-worker Branka Karavidić, which is that on the one hand, there should be a maximum protection of the person who needs to be an alerter, namely to point out some illegality, to protect it in every way and to have information on the possibility of being in alarming status. The minister knows perfectly well that the lack of knowledge of law harms him. However, how many employees are able to be familiar with the alarming law in the first place? Do you think all employees have a review of the regulations adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and can they manage them? Can they know enough what their rights are? We wanted to make sure that the reception of the employee person was familiar with the possibility of whom to address in case there were illegalities. That's one thing. The other thing we talked about is that no professional alarmers appear, persons who will use this right to protect their status beyond the general interest, which is the protection of legality. You've just said, Minister, there's no absolute alarm protection, and there's no absolute alarm protection. You said if it turned out to be false that the alarmer claimed that his employer would be able to fire him after a certain time. How, Minister, how does a court trial last four, five years or never end? Who's gonna even know what's true? It's not just about the current strike of lawyers and the fact that the judiciary isn't working. There have been cases that have lasted years before. So someone's gonna be able to use their alarming status until the process is over, and I understand it that way, and the procedure will end when it's over, and then the citizen shouldn't be afraid for his safety, as someone said before. Citizens should fear for their safety in many respects in Serbia, and for their social security, whether they will have something to eat tomorrow and buy for less and less wages and pensions and for their personal security. You can't tell Mr. Rasha Popov or Dean of the Faculty of Political Sciences that he's not afraid of anything. They felt on their skin the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, how it works and how safe it is. So you can't say, you didn't provide mechanisms to protect neither the alarmer nor the other alarmer in the system when essentially the judicial system doesn't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14398	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14399	Article 107. I see that Mr. Vesenović is very inspired today to use some things, whether out of ignorance, whether from evil intentions, so we have seen before that he has sought to adopt a law that will selectively apply only to some persons, not to all faces, but this has now really gone too far. That Mr. Popov and Dean of the Faculty of Political Sciences felt, I quote, the power of the state of the Republic of Serbia, and we also know that the Serbian public knows that also the respected Mr. Popov and the esteemed Dean of the Faculty of Political Sciences were exposed to physical torture and physical assault on the street. Someone who has now come to Serbia, who has now turned the second channel of RTS and heard Mr. Veselinovic, could suspect that the state of Serbia, that the authorities of the Serbian state have attacked Mr. Popov and the Dean of the Faculty of Political Sciences. How long does that insolence go? How much more does that hate go on and on about the use of that kind of thing because of the petty political points? I ask you, Mr. Arsic, to react next time, to react and to seek the truth, and the other is that they have seen both Mr. Popov and Dean of the Faculty of Political Sciences, the power of the state because those who are directly involved and who have done such a disgusting act, have been brought in, have been detained, revealed to them who they are and what they are, that they are no longer, but to say that they are two people, respected people in our society, but that they are not respected, that they are not doing that job, so whoever is attacked, the offender must be found, whether they are a dean or not a dean. But to say that they felt the power of the state on their own skin and that we hear it in the highest legislative body of the Republic of Serbia and that it is not responding and that someone is using it solely and exclusively because of political hatred is extreme, is extremely rude and is seeking sanctions from Mr. Chairman. Just the truth and nothing else. That's what the citizens of Serbia deserve to see us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14400	Thank you. Comrade Babic, it is very difficult for me to read the thoughts of the Members of the People what one of them will say at a certain point. I agree that was inappropriate, but I simply can't react before it happens, but eventually later. In any case, I have confidence in most of the MPs here, that they will respond properly, and that, as you call that hate speech, condemnation, both in front of the National Assembly and in front of the citizens of Serbia. This way, if I were to ban Mr. Janko Veselinovic, he would probably start talking from that moment on about how there is a dictatorship in Serbia. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14401	Article 107, I'm not going to say any less that the dictatorship said you did or didn't. So I think
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14402	A colleague, Babic, has already advertised Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14403	Therefore, Mr. Babic is not inspired today. Mr. Babic is, by all accounts, unprofessional. I'm using his dictionary, the chairman. So, Mr. Babic, apparently, had some kind of phone conversation or...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14404	I didn't really notice that, colleague Veselinovic, about the phone conversation, but tell me what I failed to do as chairman and thus hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14405	He was speaking past the agenda by advertising the Rules of Procedure and speaking beyond the subject. So, he talked about things that aren't on the agenda today, and if he had listened to my presentation, I just looked back at his colleague Jovicic, who said that all citizens in Serbia should be safe. I've shown you why they shouldn't be safe. Mr. Rasa Popov said yesterday that he was insecure, and he's insecure because those people who attacked him have had 300 criminal charges against themselves and are free to walk the streets of Serbia, and the minister of justice is sitting here, the police minister elsewhere, and everyone is powerless. Mr. Jovicic says – you are safe. You tell Mr. Rasha Popov to get out of the apartment when he's safe, and there is a state of Serbia and there are organs there. The important thing here is to organise a trial in a place that isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14406	Mr. Vesenovicu, you're just organizing a trial here right now in places where it shouldn't be. I can't help but notice that in that part of the exposure that concerns feeling insecure because these people have over 300 criminal charges. The Justice Minister is sitting here, and you should know that the Justice Department cannot influence the judicial authority, that it violates the integrity and independence of the judicial authority. It is likely the result that even after 300 criminal charges are on the loose, reforms carried out by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic from 2008 to 2012, so reform on reform, then reform on reform. As you know, any sharper cuts in the area of justice would also pull back the story of a breach of judicial independence. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14407	Article 108 has been injured. I see Mr. Vesenovic put his nose in my plate last week looking at who I was with and who I was sitting with at lunch or dinner or anywhere. I don't have a problem and I'm not hiding from my friends. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What is this? Today he's staring at my phone. Did I talk to anyone? Yeah, I talked, of course. I'm not hiding from that either. I'm not hiding even when you were listening to my conversations, Mr. Veselinovic. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. () Yes, you were actively listening to my conversations when I was an opposition MP. I didn't hide at the time. I wasn't afraid of you or anyone like you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14408	Please don't speak to the MP personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14409	Nor will I be afraid, but what you so confidently do, raising one eyebrow, with your nose in my plate and ear on my phone, you still need to know something, which is, here's the table here, because I'm not saying it out loud. This is a table of total crimes committed from 1978 to 2014. Let's see some of these crimes, in 2000, 39,000, 2001, 43,984, and 36,000, and 34,000. All during such a brilliant burnt-out revolution carried out in this building. This is why Mr. Jovicic is right, when he says - Serbian citizens are safer and you will be safer. Do you gentlemen know how many crimes have been committed in nine months by 30.09.2014 this year? 20.301 or 20% less than the 10-year average for the first nine months of each year. That's why Serbian citizens are safer, and you feel free to lean your ear on my phone and stick your nose into my plate, Mr. Veseinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14410	The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14411	Dear Chairman, you have injured a 109th member related to Article 107, because you were obliged to give notice to the MP, Mr Babic, because he insulted me personally and the National Assembly of Serbia. Me personally because he said I stuck my nose in his plate. I don't understand with all the effort what it means to stick your nose in his plate? Maybe if it was a glass, I'd accept that kind of insinuation, but a plate...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14412	Mr. Veselinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14413	On the other hand, the chairman, you allow when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure, Mr Babic to talk about the percentages of crimes committed during the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and during the government of Mr Dacic and Mr Vukic. It is not the subject of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that is why you were obliged to take away your word and to warn Mr Babic. On the other hand, there was no need to listen to Mr. Babic's phone while we were in power, because he had a safe vote for all our proposals, the truth, covered with newspapers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14414	Mr. Veselinovic, you called for me to hurt Article 108. A Rules of Procedure that provides... (Janko Veselinović, from the post: Article 109 concerning Article 107) ... to give a warning to the People's Messenger during the meeting. I turned my attention to my colleague Babic to stop addressing the other MP directly, which he immediately did. That is why I felt that I should not give him a warning, and I fully understand you fellow MPs who, in the heat of political struggles and political exchanges, once and for all, take a step that may be contrary to the Rules of Procedure. That's why we're here as chairman to draw attention to the fact that it's not done any further. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please let this be the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14415	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, when in Serbia is insinuated for looking at a cup, or in a glass, I'm also ready to introduce a newspaper in the National Assembly -- an alcoholic at the entrance to the Assembly. I believe then that Mr. Veselinovic's parliamentary group will melt, become independent MPs somehow, become very small, and to the test and the alcohol, but also every other test and test of intelligence and the test of knowledge and the test of speed...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14416	Mr. Granny, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14417	... on any test I'm willing to stand on the same line with Mr. Veselinović and I'm sure I'll win that, too, fat win. As for the security speech, the citizens of Serbia, while such a MUP, while such a judiciary, freed from godfather, friendly, cousin, party or any kind of relationship, is so deeply etched in the previous regime, does not suit anyone that we have fewer crimes. It doesn't suit anyone that we're safer as a state, and that's why even those data, which are very exact and very measurable, I've brought them here, since 1978, someone doesn't want to hear it, so they say - injury to the Rules of Procedure, because there are fewer crimes in the Republic of Serbia, instead of being proud of such a fact as Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14418	Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) On the basis of Article 112, Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I set a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Mr. Djurishic, since you weren't in the O.R.... (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: I sent everything away.) )......................................................................................................... We started with a phone call, we moved on to the plates, over the plate to the cups, over the glass to the alcotest. That's why I interrupted the session, not because you asked for it, but to prevent further incidents and insults of the MPs. Please, if you want to advertise the Rules of Procedure, don't let him be violated by any of those possible violations that have taken place. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14420	Dear Chairman, I believe that, in the course of previous discussions, you have now stated yourself, during previous discussions, reporting, injured Article 27 of your party, where it says that the president of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. I don't want to get involved in this debate in a way that puts you back in a position to violate this Rules of Procedure. On the contrary, I would like to ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure equally and to say that we, in insults to each other, will not participate, is not our intention and do not contribute to this assembly. So, if it's brought to the Rules of Procedure that there's supposed to be an alcoholic MP, we don't have any problem, we don't have a drug test, we don't have any problem, we don't have an IK test, we don't have any test. You're welcome to come. We are prepared for all kinds of testing, but please, now the President of Parliament who has taken over the presidency and all the chair to respect this Rules of Procedure. I know he hates you, that he's been brought by a previous bad government, but apply him equally to everyone, or maybe the solution is what the president said today to put in maybe some machine that would just give a word. I believe that the machine would be as objective as it was and would treat both sides of Parliament, which is not the case in this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14421	Thank you. It was more of a suggestion, as I understand it. Is that right, MP? I understand. I didn't see the President's injury. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: There were many injuries in the previous... Yes, they've been hurting the Rules of Procedure all day. There's nothing wrong with it. Just tell me, are you going to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the previous chairman? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. There's another way to end this and see you next week. Because I don't even know what the session was for today. I don't think the citizens of Serbia know what is being discussed in parliament today. Here's Djukanovic for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14422	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. By amendment, of course, I'd like to speak. This amendment is unnecessary because it is clearly defined in Article 14. which are the rights and obligations of alarmers, but also by the employer above all. What is required otherwise is that the employer is obliged to deliver to you, when establishing a working relationship or any other relationship that involves a working engagement within the meaning of a law that regulates working relations, the notice of the rights of this law is not necessary, since whenever you establish a working relationship, you will be offered a work contract and there you will certainly be given this right that defines the Alerter Protection Act. I think it's something that's elemental. Therefore, there is no reason to accept something like this. This second, we heard earlier between each other and the concerns about the attack on Rush Popov and I agree with that. It's really something terrible. None of you have said here that this attack was unfortunately carried out by children who are treated as children under our law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14423	Your Honor, I'm asking strictly about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14424	This is about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14425	So it's about the alarms in this law. It's hard to connect to a minor's attack on anyone's safety.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14426	You are here asking to be obliged by the employer to provide complete information on the website and name and what else you have been looking for, job, contact phone, email address, for whoever receives alarm information. You know, how do you think you might protect this man? Does it make any sense to be exposed, given that we're going to be on the Internet? Let's just say somebody knows that maybe the alarmer tipped him off somewhere that he's telling his ass-go now and call this guy and he's threatening him. It's not right to be looking for something like this. I agree that the alarmer must have protection, but the one receiving the information must also be somehow protected. Imagine if you could put all this information on his website. It is also inconclusive and unacceptable, and I am glad that the government has rejected such a thing because this really is not in the spirit of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14427	According to the amendment, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14428	I thank the esteemed president. Dear Ministers with Associates, the amendment should not, of course, be accepted for the reason that it would in fact be a legal screw-up in Article 14. The law on the protection of alarmers relating to the obligations of the employer, i.e. internal alarming. The amendment is proposed to Articles 14 and 5, which are more than precise and clear. Namely, the legislator, the Government, or the competent ministry in Article 14(4), says that the employer is obliged, means that the legislator does not say that the employer can, but is undermining that the employer is obliged, which means that it is a binding norm for the employer to provide all persons employed and all persons employed are volunteers, and those working on a specific contract and those who are just going to be employed with written notice of the rights under this law. This reminds me of the employer's duty to deliver to every newly employed person a law on protection of labour abuse and in relation to work. With regard to Article 5, Article 14, the legislator of the law, the Government, or the competent ministry, says the employer is obliged, means he does not again stand to be able to, but is obliged to designate a person authorised to receive information and conduct an alert procedure. This is Article 14. How binding this is for the employer is seen in Article 38 point 2 and point 3 where criminal provisions are provided, i.e. fines for non-compliance under Article 14(4) and (5), where a fine is provided for between 50 and 500,000 dinars for a legal person, i.e. from 10 to 100,000 dinars for a responsible person in a legal person. I'd like to mention one more thing. This is a historic step. This law represents a historic step in the adoption of a legal framework aimed at protecting our country's continued poverty through corruption and crime, which was a long-standing ten-year process and instead of hearing praises, we here all the time listen to unargued criticisms that are most frequently presented through amendments. I just pointed out that one law is a normative framework, but the law consists of several members of the law that are with each other in a relationship. As for transparency and the public, publication on the advertising board, publication on the website, accurate and clear in Article 16, which relates to the general act of the employer, it is again stated that the employer is obliged, does not say that he can, but that he is obliged to make available in a visible place to every working person, as well as on the employer's website, if there are of course technical options, because, you know, Serbia is not only Belgrade in a circle of two, Serbia means something much more than that, so maybe there are no technical opportunities to publish, or to use the website. So, the employer's obligation to highlight the general act of Article 1 here. What is certainly encouraging is that it is the obligation of the Minister of Justice to adopt, within three months of the day of publication of this law, sublegal acts relating to internal alarming. We all know that this law takes effect six months from the day of publication, or it begins to be implemented. Since sublegal acts will be passed at that time, the SNS believes that this will be enough for the proper implementation of this law in order to fight crime and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14429	Thank you. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14430	Thank you, Madam President. First, I must say that our parliamentary group is trying to work constructively with its amendments and to improve the quality of the rules. I think the minister has already made sure that our amendments are the same. We can look differently at certain issues and in ways of solving certain problems, not agreeing on certain things, but it is unacceptable for some MPs to characterise the amendment of other MPs as a legal screwup, which just happened, and therefore I ask the presidents to pay attention. We have also submitted an amendment to Article 15, in which we propose that the estimated three-month period of delivery of information which must end the internal alarm procedure, which is essential for the possible external alerting or alerting of the public. With the same amendment, we have proposed a reduction in the time limit within which the employer must act on information. We believe that a 15-day period is not appropriate for a long time. In the first part of the position, it is already indicated that the employer is obliged to act on information without delay, which is understandable, but given what data should contain information within the meaning of this law in order to be relative to the alert. Given that, we believe that the 15-day deadline is too long. We accept that it is possible that in certain situations the employer cannot act on information immediately, but that the eight-day period leaves time to take measures and to continue to maintain the character of urgency. In addition, the amendment provides that the employer is obliged to notify the alerter of the outcome of the procedure in writing. If the law itself does not specify the form in which the employer must inform the alarmer, it may be both verbally or in any other way, it is even possible to allow the rule that the alarmer has addressed the employer is also the way in which the employer will return the information on the outcome. We find it inadmissible that the form of the notification remains unregulated, especially when considering that the alarmer that thinks the internal alarm has had no effect, can carry out an external alert. In such situations, written notification has a greater effect and an employer still has more serious access to alert notification obligations. The government rejected this amendment, explaining that the deadlines set out in the proposal are more appropriate, as well as that the alert notification obligation is sufficiently precise by the standards set out in the draft law. We have a different opinion. First of all, to be clear, the deadline for the completion of the internal alarm procedure has been suggested that it is not introduced at all in the bill of law, so this procedure can be difficult as much as it suits someone. Another confirmation, is there really a serious will to bring this law to life or to remain just a dead letter on paper? Secondly, I would ask the question – why is it more appropriate to act without delay and no later than 15 days, and not within eight days, as we have suggested in the amendment? Third, why is it not justified to reject our solution that the alerter be informed in writing of the completion of the procedure? We should leave the possibility of being notified orally, so that in the event of external alarming, it will be in our people’s “go again. ” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14431	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dr Darko Laketic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14432	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, on this amendment to Article 15 of the Code on the Protection of Alarmers, I personally think that the definition of deadlines that would be intended to end the procedure in this article is unnecessary for the following reasons. First of all, because it is the obligation of the employer himself to regulate the internal alarm procedure by means of a general act, and all of this in accordance with the sublegal act of the minister which is closer to regulating the way of internal alarming, deadlines, but also other issues of importance. What's very important is that this sublaw of the minister is also described by article 17 of the law mentioned above. On the other hand, I personally believe that the proposed deadlines for handling information from 15 to 8 days should not be accepted for the reason that I believe that an insufficient period in which enough attention can be exercised is an analysis of the information. What is also important is that, I believe that the largest number of information actions will be significantly shorter than the proposed one, but definitely, there will be cases where the complex problem itself will affect the length of information and that precisely because of these examples and because of these cases it should be left with that period of 15 days. So, I think fellow opposition MPs have agreed that first of all notification and alerting by law is sufficiently precise, so that additional proposals to this article don't seem to be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14433	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski and Dragan Jovanovic jointly submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic together submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14434	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the idea of our amendment that in Article 16 which prescribes the obligation of an employer who has more than 10 employees to adopt a general act governing the internal alarm procedure, our amendment is to delete these 10 employees and that this applies to every employer, regardless of the number of employees. A few arguments for that. First, the law itself speaks of employment and employment, not employment. I could now list a number of companies that operate in Serbia and carry out public activities, and have fewer than 10 employees, and in other words work a lot more people. We think they should have a general act that regulates the internal alarm procedure. I was looking at an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, as well as any other amendments that we have submitted, thinking that maybe the minister, or the government, would write that it is being rejected because it wants to facilitate the business of smaller companies that have one or two employees, so that it is easier for them not to have to bring in a bunch of regulations that will make it easier to operate, but I didn't read it in an explanation. I would like the minister to assure me that our amendment has been rejected for this reason and to explain to me what is going on with companies that have less than 10 employees and do not have their own act to regulate the internal alarm procedure, or whether they should directly implement this procedure provided for by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14435	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14436	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm not someone who would accept this amendment, for a simple reason, because yet, let's talk about having some big systems where we really need to edit some kind of internal act, but when you have less than 10 employees, you can still get to know the employees themselves with their rights, so there's no need for this kind of thing. Speaking of this amendment, I'm very interested in how has this been arranged to alert the JKP Road in Novi Sad? It's a very interesting company and we can rely on this amendment. By the way, this is from the Pistol site. They wrote about it. It is about Mr Radomir Cirilovic and Zivan Pesic, workers of this public company, who have reported corruption in the public utility. However, they experienced being fired, and those against whom they faced it were somehow rewarded. Among other things, I'm going to quote now what one of them said. I'm talking about Mr. Kirilovic, and it's all on the website "Pissicles". He says – when I spoke to the agency, I demanded that the business of the company examine the DRI. Unfortunately, the mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. Some representatives of the Novi Sad DRI have hired some of their relatives in the JKP Road, so crimes have been treated as a violation. No one answered, they were even rewarded. The former director received a job at the power plant, and the chairman of the board of directors, believe it or not, Mr. Janko Veselinovic is now a folk MP. It's very interesting that someone didn't realize at the time that by some kind of internal act, in such a big system as this public utility, they were setting up to protect the alarmers. These two alarmers, since they had no protection, unfortunately they seem to have been exposed to chicanking, and Mr. Veselinovic seems to be very well rewarded. He's even an MP today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14437	National MP Olga Batic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 16th amendment. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14438	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the distinguished guests, in Article 16(3), 4th and 5th, are deleted. The explanation is next. Therefore, acts of lower legal force must not be contrary to acts of more legal force and that is more than clear. They cannot reduce the scope of the right or deny any right arising from the law, so that those provisions are completely excessive. Also, during the public debate, and this is one of the things that we have commented on and on the Justice Committee itself, is a comment that has also been made by "Transparent Serbia", during the public debate, the promoter did not explain why these provisions are necessary, nor did he do so in the given explanation. There are many questions that we have not received answers to today. Of course, they can't say that anywhere. As a MP, I am obliged to do so. So it is very important for us to hear the explanation of the minister himself, which is why these extra provisions stand here. I think it's important that we have some criteria by which we reject amendments, as you have a criterion by which you kind of comment, and some don't comment. Anyway, I understand you, there are a lot of amendments and it's taking this debate a long time, but I think it's quality. With that in mind, I want you to explain to me why these extra provisions are here. If you think it's completely excessive to comment on any amendment to the opposition, then agree, so we can leave this for either next week or simply stop working today, because there's really no point in debate and use some of our time, and on the other hand there's no adequate answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14439	Thank you. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14440	The Honorable Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Honorable Ministers, the Bill and Article 17 have determined that the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary shall adopt an act that is closer to regulating the way of internal alerting, the way in which the authorised person is appointed by the employer, etc. So we have submitted an amendment to transfer these powers to the minister responsible for the affairs of the state administration. In fact, only a small portion of the provisions apply to areas belonging to the judiciary. On the other hand, a greater number of provisions or most are currently relevant, has the right in the authorities of the state administration and local self-government, as well as in other public sector institutions covered by the public administration reform strategy. In addition, the bill itself says that the supervision of its application is currently carrying out administrative inspection, which is as an organisational unit within the responsibility of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. That's why we think it would be much more appropriate for these jobs to be the minister of state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14441	Thank you. The word is Dr. Vesna Rakonjac, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14442	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, as a good rule, the opposition representatives will never read either the entire member of the law or deliberately deny anything. If we see that the supervision of law enforcement is carried out by the first labour inspection, i.e. administrative inspection, the Ministry of Labour, or the Minister of Labour, should be responsible for the provisions and implementation. Therefore, I don't think this amendment can be accepted at all and I think it's absolutely right and that jurisdiction is well deployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14443	Thank you. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14444	This amendment is related to the amendment to Article 16. This is to introduce a legal obligation for companies with more than 10 employees to adopt a general act. The minister did not answer me, but I understood by noding my head that this solution implies that employers with less than 10 employees are directly subject to the law. Since citizens, if they're following this, can't possibly see the minister and his associates nod their heads, to say what happened, since we haven't heard the answer. Of course, in response to the previous amendment, which is related to this, we have received re-insults and charges without proof at the expense of the MPs. I see it's a practice. I'm not going to get involved that way, but I'm going to give you an example of a company that we might hear something about in the future, whether on a "Pistel" or somewhere else. Let's just say, what could happen...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14445	Not with the assumptions, I asked everyone to go back to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14446	You didn't react when they were directly based on assumptions...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14447	There were no assumptions what might happen in the future. So go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14448	There were assumptions because nothing was proven by what was being burdened with Mr. Veselinović, and you did not respond at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14449	You're wasting your time on the amendment. I won't stop you, so whatever you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14450	You want to stop me, and you didn't stop your fellow MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14451	Don't fight. You're so in the mood to fight, it's amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14452	I'm not in the mood to fight with anyone at all, I just want to talk here...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14453	You'll be wasting the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14454	No, I won't, I'll speak as president of the parliamentary group, and I'll spend that time, but please take 20 seconds of what you've taken from me here...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14455	I have a right to warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14456	Okay. I ask you to use that right equally.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14457	I'd love to, but you'll see in the follow-up session, and first I'll start with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14458	So when certain claims are made here without evidence and accused fellow MPs of reacting to each other. That's all I ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14459	We don't want a replica. Do you want to talk about the amendment or should we move on to the next amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14460	I want to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14461	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14462	There are various companies that have less than 10 employees, and they do a job of general importance. One is called the NanoInspect. A very responsible job in Serbia is related to control, fuel labelling. We heard that this is good, which is why Serbia's budget is filled with an additional 40m euros per year.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14463	Who has more than ten employees – is deleted?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14464	No, there's an employee. The nanoinspect company, which does the job in Serbia, is worth it, is making between four and five million euros a year, has one employee and does a very responsible job and has one employee, works with the state, works to mark fuel. I will also find it very interesting to see the company's financial report for 2014, i.e. for 2013.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14465	And the amendment is about?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14466	The amendment is about companies that have less than ten employees, whether they should bring in a general act of internal alert. This company will not have to pass the act under this law, and surely besides this one employee, there are more employees involved, because he does one responsible job, for big money. My question was, how would there be, if someone were to feel that there were some abuses, how would that person exercise the right under this law and alert, through the procedure of internal alarming or eventually alert the public for something that might be happening? I don't know if it's happening, I just set an example. I've got ten companies here doing very important White Bus jobs with three employees all the time, and he's doing transportation, because he's hiring other drivers. What can happen now and how these companies exercise the right to internal alarm, if there is no internal act of obligation under this law, and the minister and his associates have noded and said – the law is directly applicable and we remain to believe that in these cases the law will be applied directly, I did not want to say anything else, I did not insult anyone, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14467	Thank you. Of course not, it's just a matter of work. The minister wants to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14468	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in favour of a good part of this kind of exposure, I will only realize that the law is always stronger than the sublegal act and that in this case, the law is directly applicable, and the power of the law, as I said, is certainly greater.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14469	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 18. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14470	Thank you. The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14471	I repeat because of the record, Minister Selakovic accepted the amendment. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs together Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olga Batic Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14472	Thank you, Mr. President. In this text of the amendments, as you had the opportunity to read, I predicted that in Article 18, "directly superior authorities" is replaced by the words "every parent body chosen by alarmers". When the debate was in principle, I explained the good part of why I believe that something should be done, and yet it is my personal position, because I believe that alarmers should not be limited, to which one of the authorities of all supervisory authorities will be addressed, and if there is a circumstance in Article 18 and Article 2 right now, since the alerter may have doubts as to the fact that the supervisor directly allows the supervisory authority, knowingly and intentionally, to violate the rules of the subordinate body, that someone may have confidence in one state body and someone in another state body, that there is no need to trust that body in which the alarming authority is directly commanded, but as I have said in principle, there can only be trust in so-called. That third degree hierarchy. I think for these reasons it is precisely necessary to allow freedom of alert to be performed by any authority that is hierarchical over the organ for which the alert is carried out, regardless of the degree of authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14473	Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14474	Thank you. Motivation for the submission of this amendment, given that I did not report under an amendment relating to Article 15, motivated for the same reasons, which is – unreserved support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the fight against corruption and in that sense, so-called. Zero tolerance to any form or type of corruption or corruption. In this regard, the SPS Group considered that, with all, absolute support from the Government, we should also consider that deadlines that relate to the conduct of those who are legitimately legitimate, should decide on information that points to corruptive action, that these deadlines should be shorter. And the question arises why would it wait, let's say 15 days for information related to the occurrence of corrupt activity, if corruption is such a kind of monster, that kind of cancer that metastasizes mostly, and in the form of us already exists, without reacting to it immediately. So there's no reason to postpone. I'll be completely open and honest. I believe that we have really set quite small deadlines of three days, although other MPs here have set shorter deadlines than proposed, such as counterpart Dubravka Filipovski and Dragan Jovanovic, and in this direction I leave the promoter on the price and assessment for the adoption of such amendments. I ask the Minister to consider the position of the 8th proposed amendment to Article 18 where we have asked for a deadline within which the authorised authority will be required to notify the alerter of the outcome of the procedure referred to in Article 1 of the same Article. The proposed text of the law states that it will notify it immediately after the end of the procedure. I think it's a bit of an undefined norm and it should be specified by setting a deadline and that that deadline can be a realistic 15-day deadline in which it is really required to inform the alerter of the outcome of the procedure. I think Mr. Minister could be assessed that at least this part of the amendment is acceptable, that a partial amendment is adopted in relation to the rest of the part, of course, I leave it to you for the assessment, but most kindly please consider this proposal, which is extremely rational and pragmatic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14475	Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Branka Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which you have a written report, so I don't have to read every time. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14476	Article 19 speaks of public alerts and says that "publicity can be alarmed without prior notification of the employer or the authorised authority, in the event of a direct threat to life, public health, safety, the environment from the occurrence of damage to large scales, or if there is a direct danger of destruction of evidence". We felt that these conditions should be added for these conditions to alert the public – if the danger can only be prevented by alarming the public. Then we asked for an amendment to add two more members who read – that the public could be alarmed without prior notification of the employer and the authorised authority when the alerter published information that was already required, mainly that I did not read who wanted to read it, he could read it. The government has, of course, rejected this amendment. We believe that it was more useful for the government to accept this amendment, because we believe that this article of 19 may, perhaps, lead to the abuse of this law and abuse of the role of alarmers and to encourage what is often happening to us, the publication of some sensational news by tabs that cause damage, and very quickly it turns out that they were not true. We've had opportunities in recent times to face it. I think this is a very sensitive issue and I think that the ruling parties and MPs who support the government should think carefully about adopting such a member without our amendments as we have proposed. I'm afraid this will turn against the government at some point, that we'll have one flood of alerting the public, that people will think that they're doing it in accordance with this law, and that it won't be a case, and that it's just going to be, that this kind of member of the law without this amendment that we've proposed, we're just going to feed the tabloids in Serbia further, and I think they're one bad phenomenon and they're creating a bad climate in our society that we witness on a daily basis. So think again about this amendment. Maybe he's not perfect, but in any case he's written with a desire to alert the public as responsible as possible in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14477	By amendment, Dr. Darko Laketic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14478	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, for this amendment to Article 19. The Code on the Protection of Alertors, I personally consider it an extra sentence in the amendment of the Proposer. I quote - if the danger can only be prevented by alarming the public. Why? Because the proposed formulation by the government is already precisely defined when the public can be alarmed without prior notification of the employer. Believe me, I mean, it's my position, but I really think the proposed formulation in the law is more than clear and without the proposed amendment. On the other hand, I'm also analyzing this sentence that was proposed. That's where a lot of questions are asked. For example, who would do an assessment of whether danger can or can not be prevented only by alarming the public? Now I'm speaking hypothetically based on this sentence that was proposed. Am I the alarm man supposed to do that? I don't think so, and I don't think there should be any further misunderstandings, because it's absolutely clear and the sentence and the attitude that we're talking about. That's what I suggest we reject the amendment as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14479	Thank you. National MPs together, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, magistrate Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14480	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Minister, to be perfectly honest, I think the 19th is as it stands is well-defined, but I don't think it's complete, so we've submitted an amendment in this regard, where we've tried heading 2rd and 3rd to add a member. It is precisely because of the expert public, because of the alarmers who are very interested in this topic, that I will read both of the positions as we have suggested – that the public may be alarmed after prior notification of the authorised authority when the procedure before that authority is not conducted within a reasonable period of time or when the authorised authority has erroneously conducted the procedure; paragraph 3. – the public may be alerted without prior notification of the employer or the authorised authority when the alerter publishes information for which the publication obligation has already been prescribed. So so far attitude 2 becomes attitude 4. Why did we do this, because we think that this bill, as defined, I say well, but not completely, does not regulate the possibility of alarming the public after previous procedural steps have been carried out. I mean internal alarming, I mean alarming in front of an authorised authority, and that's why it's kind of necessary to find a solution for a variety of situations when such an alarm is justified. You know, you yourself, that life is somehow more innovative than the law, and we've simply tried to predict another situation, we add a member, and we make this law better. That's why I think you'll find strength and desire to accept this amendment and make the law itself better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14481	Thank you. National MPs together, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, master of Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14482	I would like to thank the presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, the honored guests, Article 20 is amended and it is said that the information contained in the secret information must not be disclosed to the public, if the alerting objective can be achieved without secret information or if the publication of such information causes greater damage than the damage to which the information is indicated. It shall not be disclosed to the public a secret information which carries the highest degree of secrecy in accordance with the law governing the confidentiality of the data. Therefore, only the explanation given is quite clear for the simple reason why the proposed amendment provides for a different solution than the solutions you have proposed in this article. Therefore, a secret information must not be published if the purpose of the alert is achieved without it or if it is done more harm than there is no alarm. Finally, there has been an absolute ban on public alerts but only with top-level classified data, unlike your proposal, which contains an absolute ban on any kind of classified information. For these two and a half years, I can't help but notice that you've developed a pattern, which is that you're keeping everything secret from the citizens of Serbia and that we're constantly having secret contracts, we're constantly having some secret negotiations, secret talks, secret contracts, and if they're so much in favour of the citizens, I don't understand why they're secret. This is one of the things where alarmers or potential alarmers are allowed to have some degree of secrecy, if they really disagree with public interest, public performances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14483	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14484	Thank you, Madam President. Article 106(1) that the speaker may speak only of the item of the agenda under investigation. The secret of the contract, we don't know which contracts? Maybe the previous speaker was thinking about a contract with the "Fiat" that, like...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14485	I beg of you to harm the Rules of Procedure, not the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14486	The violation of the Rules of Procedure refers to the speaker as being able to talk about the agenda point. You didn't interrupt the previous speaker when he was talking about someone...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14487	He was talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14488	Who was talking about the amendment, and he was talking about contracts.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14489	But he wasn't talking about anything special.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14490	He talked about contracts and that, about the manner of this government to make some secret deals. Mr. Bozovic had the opportunity to hear from Mr. Vukic here all the contracts, everything that was made, very transparent, very public, we have nothing to be ashamed of, we have nothing to be afraid of, and if he meant the secret contracts from the time of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, the ones that were bolted like this...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14491	Your Honour, this is a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14492	from the time "Fiyat" and everything they've done, then it's okay and if it's an ash spill, fine. But this government has nothing to hide from the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14493	I will not respond to the injury of the Rules of Procedure, because I believe this was a replica, that this was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You really didn't say anything about the chairman. I can't stop someone from talking exactly about the amendment he wrote. This was a replica. It really was a replica, and it really wasn't said anything about how the chairman hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The minister has an advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14494	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to amendments to Article 20, I would read what I have received here in the light of the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. At the end of the report, the Committee considered and held that amendments to Article 20, which were jointly submitted by MPs, all those you read, and together, were therefore not in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It is in the report signed by counterpart Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, and I therefore believe that this is more than enough reason not to accept these amendments. If we have amendments in front of us that are in some way derivating and the provisions of the Criminal Code and it is very clear that they are not in line with the constitutional legal system of the RS, then I don't think we should discuss it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14495	Marijan Risticevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14496	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I first wanted to vote in favour of Mr Bozovic's amendment, for the reason it seemed very nice at first sight. I didn't know Mr Bozovic's amendment was in breach of the Constitution and the law. I thought that MPs from those big parties were almost amazing to submit an unconstitutional amendment, so before I recognize the writings of the author of the amendment, and it's about writers, the same writers who wrote that poor model of the Alert Law for 100,000 euros. I bet the writing by the writer of the 100,000-euro bill cost every member of the law 3,000 euros. I don't know what the cost was in 100,000 euros. I believe it was a paper computer, a pen. Nothing needs to be written any more. I think it's the handwriting of this amendment, and I don't mind, the writing of the model of that law. I wanted to support this proposal, but it's not in accordance with the Constitution, it's not in accordance with the law, and my God, he's not even ethically responsible, not to say another harsh word. For the simple reason that if this were to be adopted, it would be possible, as the second attitude states, not to disclose to the public a secret information which is the highest degree of secrecy, we have more degree of secrecy and are all protected by law. Anyone who brings out a lower level, and the minister of justice is there, secrecy can answer criminally. So, if I were to vote for Mr Bozovic's amendment now, I would be in a position to force people to break one other law and to be able to answer in court. But speaking of the secrecy of the data, I could agree with the amendment's proposal that certain organs can be used by traps and that the government sometimes holds various information in secret. So, like the ones I put out, and the minister didn't give me an answer on whether the classified information was correct, and whether I violated the Code on the Protection of Secret Information. Sometimes some documents from the U.S. Embassy don't carry any level of secrecy, and it's about meetings with a legal advisor at the U.S. Embassy...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14497	Ambassador, I must interrupt you, only about the amendment. If I have interrupted another MP, I must interrupt you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14498	I agree, and that's the way I'm gonna end it. I've already brought this document out. I'm looking for the Secretary of Defense's response, which is before I file criminal charges with my other colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14499	All right, MP, you'll do it on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14500	Wait a minute. Don't be impatient.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14501	I'm not impatient. I'm trying to run a session that got out of control in the big part.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14502	The amendment refers to the confidentiality of the data. So, I'm taking out a second degree of secrecy of information that could make someone answer if they were to take those data out. Such an amendment was submitted by the Proposer. I didn't take it. I'm just commenting on it. I'm trying to do it realistically, and at the place of the opposition, I would look forward to the Alert Act that we didn't have before, because it can mostly burden the government and that they find out some information that we, while we were opposition, couldn't find out. Mr Bozovic's amendment is unacceptable for the simple reason that it leads citizens to break the law, according to their amendment. As far as this data is concerned, I expect to be answered whether the information I gave is correct, and as far as criminal charges are concerned, you are right, I will submit it to the prosecution responsible, not to you, along with colleagues Drecun and Djukanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14503	We're not a court. Vladimir Djukanovic by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14504	Thank you. Minister, as you know, in the principle debate, I personally agreed to accept the amendment "Pissicles". Today, however, a session of the Justice Committee explained that it could not be in line with the very law that defines the secrecy of the data. Maybe you should think about changing that law. It wouldn't be bad, but why am I saying all this? I was elected president of the "State Lottery of Serbia" Assembly. When I got there, almost all the contracts were classified. Incredibly something, everyone was led under a business secret, even the most ordinary marketing contracts. It went all the way to that limit of nonsense. It wasn't until after I saw what it was about. Because it's the way it's been hidden, pumping money out of the company. The company ended up with 150 million dinars in losses, a unique example of a state lottery in the world to end up in a minus. That is why we should really think about what can be done under secret information, because if every public enterprise will allow itself to commit such a thing under business secret, which is the money of the citizens of RS, we can come to a big problem that we have another new contract with the "Fiyat" that is completely blacked out, and if it is that we are not lying to one of the good jobs that RS has, because "Fiyat" is kind of full of budget and doing well. But it's not exactly instructions to sell a factory somewhere or whatever we do, and it's all blacked out that we don't know any information from that contract. That used to be manners. I hope that changes completely now. Maybe I'm the law to change so that citizens can still be made available and that everything can't be subdued under business secrets or secret information, however you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14505	I thank you, MP. Balša Bozovic after the amendment. You have a minute. That's all you got left. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. You answered, you have a minute, if not by mistake. You don't have a replica. There was no insult. Nothing negative. You have a minute. You don't want to? Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs together Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 21st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs together Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 22nd amendment in the same text. Balša Bozovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14506	I thank the president. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honourable ministers, honored guests, Article 22 adds Article 2 which reads - instead of the right to remove the consequences of the harmful action, throw up in an earlier state, the alarmer, or the connected person, has the right to grant him a fair payment. So, by the proposed amendment, we tried to make the damage compensation provision a little closer to determining that it made sense. Only if this law provides for a special right for alarmers or related persons that are greater than those that would have been subject to the Bond Relations Act. By introducing this right, very useful for alarmers who, after their act, despite the protection that would be given to them in terms of repealing an illegal act, would face a possible quiet boycott, it is the thing that exists and which is not easily proven unequivocally, for the simple reason that it is sometimes difficult to prove the act of revenge that can be found in practice by alarming. So this amendment represents additional protection. We think that it further protects the rights of those who are the bravest and who really have courage and courage, after all, that in a country like Serbia, they dare say something and really see and the public inform about some illegal act or immoral action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14507	The word has the People's MP Dr. Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14508	Thank you. I think the government has made the right decision because it has rejected this amendment, since this new position 2 put under heading 1, as if it were collapsing and opposed. Indeed, the law clearly provides for a decision on the compensation of material damage, which is clearly defined in the court procedure. On the other hand, what are these preferentially greater rights now? I don't know, I'm not a lawyer, but how much does the legal system know and how common is the need, if it knows, the possibility of giving special rights to certain categories of people seeking protection of rights? The third reason is that the concept of judicial protection is introduced in future, coming members. It's only if we left these two members side by side, you'd just wonder what that would look like. In this point 2, which is proposed, it is said that instead of the right to remove the result of a harmful action, etc., fair compensation should be determined. That part of that addictive sentence doesn't appear in attitude one, there's no comment like that. I don't think they're even close enough to have this kind of syntax connection between these two attitudes. That is why I think it is a simpler and clearer solution that the promoter has made and that that is why the government that has not accepted this amendment is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14509	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14510	Thank you, Madam President. Article 23 and my amendment to Article 23, like these earlier amendments, have really the same motive. With the maximum support associated with intensity and the basic objective and meaning of the law, i.e. the fight against corruption is also the precision of certain members or provisions in the proposed text of the amendments. In particular, the proposed text of Article 23 states that the provisions of the Law on litigation procedure are to be applied accordingly in proceedings before the Court of Justice in connection with the alerting proceedings, and that special proceedings under the provisions of the Law on Prosecution are to be subject to a special procedure in the field of working relations. However, we are all aware that besides working relationships, it is true, it is the most sensitive category of corruptive action, there are other situations and other aspects and other modes where corruption is manifested, i.e. that these are not strictly working relationships, which means that they can also be administrative, they can be others, especially if the corrupt activity is manifested in the field of government authorities. Or, in the area of private-owned enterprises. As a result, this amendment tried to intervene to cover a wider circle of situations, i.e. the scale that implies the possibility of eradicating corruption and corruption and where they are not only working relationships. That is why we believe that this amendment could contribute to the fact that corruption is indeed covered properly and how the Government of the Republic of Serbia does, which is in a comprehensive sense in terms of words, which undoubtedly respects and has the support of the SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14511	Thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic. Do you want a word? The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14512	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 25 is the consequence of the amendment to Article 17, because we are moving jurisdiction over this law from the judiciary to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration Affairs. If the parliamentary majority adopts an amendment to Article 17, it will also have to adopt an amendment to Article 25. I'll say it again. So by reading the law and understanding what you really wanted, we realize that only one small part of the provisions of this law concern the area of justice, and most of it concerns the area of state administration and local self-government. For this reason, we think it is more appropriate to transfer jurisdiction over this law to the Ministry of State Administration. One more thing goes to this amendment of ours and what I'm saying, which is that jurisdiction over the implementation and control of this law has a administrative inspection which is as an organisational unit part of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Our idea with these amendments, we have submitted 27 amendments, is to make the law more effective, to make it more detailed, and to try to provide even greater and better protection to alarmers, as an additional motivation to point to violations of the laws and make the fight against corruption even more effective. It is our goal to submit these amendments, and therefore I ask you to take another look at the voting day, unless you accept it today, I ask the ruling majority to read once again the amendments that we have submitted, making this law even more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14513	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14514	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am really trying very hard to send every amendment, but I do not see any logical link between the proposed amendment and the original text of the member in the bill. What does the Minister of State have to do with the Justice Academy and the training of the judges who are supposed to handle the alarming cases? Mr. Nikolic is a serious man. I respect and appreciate his opinion. I believe he would never write such an amendment. What does the judge's training program have to do with the protection of the alarming officer who runs the Judicial Academy with the Ministry of Public Administration Affairs? As much as that previous amendment that was almost identical to the content, but it concerned one other member who was almost identical to the content, but concerning another member, it could have been logically connected somewhere, although, as Dr. Rakonjac's colleague said, it made much more sense to say, for example, the Minister of Labour or Minister of Economy. I don't see that making any sense here. If the judges are subject to the special knowledge programme, the knowledge of alerters, what does the Ministry of State Department have to do with it, unless it is a single ministry as the Ministry of Justice. You know, the ministries are changing, but jurisdiction is special. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14515	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14516	Minister, if you don't want to understand, then you're saying what you said. Namely, I'll read it, and I'll explain it to you. Article 2 "The acquisition of special knowledge and professional training of persons acting in connection with the protection of alarmers is conducted by the Judicial Academy in co-operation with the Ministry of Justice." If we put in Article 17 that, if the amendment is passed, the competent ministry will be the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. That is exactly what I said, that this amendment is the consequence of the amendment to Article 17. If the ruling majority adopts it, since we are not enough to vote these amendments, we would love to, this amendment will be quite logical. So, if the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government are responsible for this law, then the Judicial Academy will work with the ministry responsible for implementing this law. So then logic exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14517	The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 26th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14518	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, honourable ministers, honored guests, in Article 26, paragraph 2 is deleted. The explanation we gave concerns the alarming procedure. Harmful actions can, of course, be viewed in the adoption of individual acts of employers which resolves the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the worker on the basis of work. It can be expected, as you know, and it was also a proposal for a debate, when it comes to the bill itself, that employers will most often take revenge on the alarmers through the adoption of such acts, according to those who, above all, are in a working relationship with them. There is no good reason why disputing these particular acts would be excluded from the general alarm protection regime, when it has not already been done with acts adopted in other legally regulated procedures. So, what is essential is to ask this question, Mr. Minister, is it possible for you, from the lack of precise definition of the bill, to happen that an individual or body potentially carrying out a retaliatory action, or a harmful action against the alarming officer, can, without any problem, bypass the proposed legislation and claim that the action of retribution is not a result of adjudication, but of some other factors? That's what we're very interested in, because such cases are actually the most common in practice and that's what 91 alarmers, as far as Serbia has, are most interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14519	According to the amendment, the People's MP is Dr Milet Poscuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14520	If this were to be accepted immediately, Section 2 would be deleted, which naturally represents a bond with the next Article 27, then the question would be asked - why does it seem? If it is simply deleted, and Article 27, I can see that none of the opposition's proposings suggested that Article 27 be deleted, I don't know why this is again done when it is seen precisely from the content of the complaint in Article 26. what it all implies, even as it explains the amendment's proposal, is the removal of the consequences of the harmful action, that is point 3 in the plea. So, and if we do not go into the work-law process, in the matter of violations of labour law, as provided for in Article 27, the larger institutions and actions brought in Article 26(3) are the problem solved, and on the side of which those rights are singled out in a particular member. I think he wants to point out in point 2 of the motion to single out only those actions, those actions that can be considered to be the contents of the alarming suit or in connection with the alarming, with the procedure itself, and that what the employer can possibly do is the subject of a special court dispute and it concerns working-law relations. That's again what we had in Article 13 that missed in the discussion, where it was required that even the one who was the alarmer and didn't sign anywhere. Here, he came to the court, fought for his rights, didn't sign, even explicitly asked, even though the law suggested he couldn't or didn't have to. So, we have some pretty disagreeable amendments that when you sort out the hierarchy from the same proposings, the question is, what would it all turn out to be if it were all accepted, so I think this government's answer is logical, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14521	Thank you. Members of the 29th Amendment were submitted together by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14522	I will briefly, given that there is maximum support for one provision, i.e. the systematicization of a legal institute in the provisions of this law, which is the possibility of determining temporary measures. Indeed, temporary measures are in this situation and are necessary. In this sense, there is one maximum support for this procedural and legal part of the alert law. The only thing that might be considered is the possibility of submitting a proposal for temporary measures, i.e. When it's tolerated, let's use an out-of-time term, and that's timing. The proposal for the text of Article 32 states that this proposal for a provisional measure can be submitted before the proceedings are initiated, when the court proceedings are initiated, as an integral part of the action is our proposal for an amendment which is not contained in the text proposed in Article 32 and we have in practice more than 99% of the situations where, with the application, a proposal for a provisional measure is put in place and decided in an emergency procedure. That is why the intervention was done in this amendment, in order to specify the text itself. In all other things, there is indeed maximum support both in determining the temporary measure and in procedural and legal issues related to the temporary measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14523	Thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14524	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished ministers, respected guests, amendments to Article 34 paragraph 1 are amended and said: “The proposal to determine the temporary measure may require the court to postpone the legal fact of the act, prohibit the carrying out of the harmful action, order the employer to take the action to which he is authorised, to cease the harmful action performed by employees or other persons whose conduct may be affected, to order the employer to take action in favour of the alarmer and the related person, as well as to order the removal of the consequences of the harmful action. ” So, the amendment suggested that a temporary measure could also include a request for the defendant's employer to take the actions he was normally authorized to take, to prevent any harmful actions against the alarmer from being continued by other employees or persons whose behaviour the employer might influence. The second proposed supplement aims to provide active protection to the alerter against inaction. In line with that, I'd like to make an example here, I repeat again that there are really many in practice. If the employer makes a retaliatory or negative action towards the alarmer by not making a solution to the annual rest, for example, by not assigning him certain work assignments, so-called a silent boycott or so, so as not to decide on its case if the alarmer is a person who is not employed by the employer, but a user of the body's services, the court may temporarily order the employer to take certain actions for the benefit of the alarmer, or to make a solution to the annual rest, to assign him work tasks or to decide on his case. We want to know why this amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14525	Thank you. National MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14526	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 36, you have defined that the supervision of the implementation of this law is carried out by an inspection of the work, i.e. administrative inspection. We don't think it's precisely defined enough, so we've proposed to amend this article and very precisely define who is overseeing the implementation of this law. Our proposal is for a member to oversee the implementation of this law by carrying out administrative inspection and we have defined in detail that labour inspection and other inspections are supervised by the application of the provisions of this law, which relate to the application of other laws under their jurisdiction. We believe that the article, as you have suggested, does not have a clear division of jurisdiction between administrative inspection and labour inspection, so the impression is that both inspections have jurisdiction over the application of all the provisions of this law. Pretty confusing. We think that our amendment would correct this in the spirit of how we have submitted these amendments, I will repeat, that we make this law more effective, more detailed, more precise and give additional protection to the alarmers. It's our goal to submit these amendments. That's why we think you should take another look at these amendments and I know you have the opportunity to accept this amendment today. I believe you would do a favor to all those whose laws concern you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14527	Amendments, which shall be referred to in Article 36, shall be added to Chapter 4a, with the name, and Art. 36a and 36b, with names, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14528	I would like to thank the Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, the honored guests, this is one proposal, and we have referred earlier to the need to motivate additional alarmers. A few times today we had a chance to hear that we don't really want to support this law because we don't want to protect the alarms. No, on the contrary, we want to protect them much better than you suggested in this bill, on the one hand. On the other hand, we want to further motivate potential alarms, to be bold and to report illegal and immoral action. In this regard, we propose Article 36a, of course, with Chapter 4a, 36a and 36b, where the alerter award is determined in relation to the amount of income obtained, reduced for new and direct costs and according to the alarmer's contribution. So, the prize can't be less, according to our proposal, than 1%, or more than 10% of the income obtained. We have also proposed a procedure for the achievement of the award for the income obtained and, of course, to conclude, we have proposed what is not the bill itself through the provisions that you have stated. The law also needs to offer a solution that will apply precisely to the alarmer's prize, which is the procedure to be achieved, because we think it will further motivate and further encourage it, that someone will really know that the system is behind justice and rights and truth, not that you further demote it with this law. The proposal, as it is, will demote these 91s, and they're really small and there will be fewer and fewer if they change, with concrete rewards, you don't adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14529	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic together submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Branka Karavidic together submitted to the 38th amendment. In the words of MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14530	Article 38 speaks of penalties prescribed by this law and in the first position speaks of penalties for legal persons. This law prescribed the range of fines from 50,000 to 500,000 dinars. We have proposed our amendment from the upper limit to two million, which is in accordance with the Law on Violations, maximum punishment for legal persons. We believe, given the importance of this law and its successful application, that it would be better to adopt this amendment and that the law prescribes maximum punishment for legal persons, because we think it would allow us to avoid the situation of a legal person, let's say, assessing that it is more worth being punished under this law and not acting under this law, because for some legal persons, for some jobs, a fine of 500,000 dinars may not be a big problem. In this regard, there is little strange explanation for the refusal of this amendment, which says the applicant has estimated that the prescribed range of fines will provide for the purpose of punishment. We think that the possibility, not necessarily maximum punishment, but the possibility of that punishment being up to two million, gives those who will enforce this law greater opportunities to determine the appropriate punishment, and the maximum penalty of two million may be a certain legal person to discourage them from knowingly breaking this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14531	Thank you. Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korac, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Branka Karavidic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14532	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr Minister, Article 39 prescribes a deadline for the Minister to adopt a sub-legislative act, which should regulate the internal alarm procedure, both in accordance with Articles 17 and 25 of this Act, and in the second position it speaks of a period of one year for employers to agree to, or bring in a general act to regulate it. We felt that these deadlines should be shortened, that the minister should adopt his sublegal act within 60 days, and that employers would then bring in their general acts in the next 90 days. We believe that the deadlines prescribed by this law are inappropriately long. At the end of the line, the minister here, in principle debate, said that the sublaw was already ready and that they were just waiting for the adoption of the final text of the law, to adapt to any changes, which unfortunately do not have much, because almost no amendment was accepted and that they would be brought safely within this legal period of three months. If such a situation is presented to us here by the Minister in principle, then I see no reason not to accept this amendment and not to cut that deadline by another 30 days, and that, given the importance of this law that we have heard about when we were having a principle debate today all day, when we talk about details, we reduce this deadline by one year, which is the obligation of the employer to 90 days and that this law comes into force as soon as possible. This is important, having the fact that an amendment to Article 40 has been adopted, where article 40 is deleted. It is not clear to me what will happen and what legislation will apply since mid-, or 23 January, when the Constitutional Court deletes Article 56, paragraph 5. The Act on the Agency and the Regulation adopted pursuant to that Article, and if adopted as proposed, this law will not enter into force until six months from the date of its publication in the Official Messenger. So that's the end of April. What's going to happen in those few months? What law will apply? How will the alarmers possibly exercise their rights? What's going to happen to those alarms that are already under the protection procedure, launched by the Agency? What's going to happen? I think it's rather vague and that we should accept this amendment, as well as the amendment that regulates it, I will later say, that this law is practically not in effect for six months, but that it should take effect after the publication in the Official Messenger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14533	The MPs together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Dejan Nikolic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Snezana Malovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Branka Karavidic. The word is for Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14534	Dear Presidents, Article 41 speaks of the entry into force of the law eight days after its publication in the Official Messenger and of its application within six months. It is unusual for this call, I must admit, since almost all the laws we adopt here usually come into force as soon as they are published in the Official Messenger. So there's not even this eight-day deadline that we've been planning and we've often pointed out when we criticized this government practice to pass laws that come into force immediately. It's a very interesting explanation to me. I will keep it, so I will use it in the debate with various other laws, as it says – the government does not accept the amendment because it is necessary to provide assumptions for full implementation of the law, training of persons dealing with the protection of alarmers, training of labour inspection in relation to the supervision of the application of the law and other assumptions, and that the public is informed of the content of the law and that economic operators, i.e. legal persons and entrepreneurs, i.e. the state authorities prepare for the obligations imposed upon them by this law. If it wasn't for this Parliament's practice, if I didn't know for sure that 50 laws had been passed if the law had taken effect on the day of the publication of the "Official Messenger", which happens on the same day or day after the adoption of this Parliament, this argument would have seemed too much to me and I would have accepted it, but I ask you – what about all those laws that we have passed here, began to apply the next day? You, Mr. Minister, have brought the Notary Act to us for adoption and we adopted it on Sunday, August 31st, the Law began to apply on September 1st. How did the public have the opportunity to get to know and inform about the content of the law and that the economic operators, i.e. legal persons and entrepreneurs, or the state authorities, are preparing for the obligations laid down by this law? What about all the other laws we passed, for which no one had time to prepare? I agree with the Minister that it's extremely important, and it's good, you told us, that the training programs are prepared for the judges to act under this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14535	You've wasted your time with authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14536	Can I have the time of the parliamentary group, if there's a little more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14537	Okay, there's a little more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14538	Thank you, there's still a little time. That's good, it's good, especially given the European Commission's assessment of the situation in our judiciary. We have repeatedly heard here that the European Commission has given a positive opinion on this law and I believe that they have given it, first of all, the assumption that Serbia's judiciary is independent and trained, but it is not. If you read that report, you can read that the constitutional and legislative framework still leaves room for inappropriate political influence that violates the independence of the judiciary, especially with regard to the career of judges and prosecutors. Some judges from senior and appeals courts who were faced with direct attempts to exert political influence on their daily activities, and the High Council of the judiciary did not defend their independence in the right way. These are all the reviews from the European Commission's report. It says – in particular, there is a need to further improve the expertise of judges in certain areas, especially with regard to taxation of financial issues, consumer protection, state subsidies, asylum and protection of human rights. So we agree that we need to train the judges. Our fear is that these six months won't be enough. Our fear is, we talked about it in principle, that we would have one void until the entry into force, until the application of this law begins. So if we adopt it today, tomorrow, it'll start to apply at the end of April. What's gonna happen in those first months next year? Will anyone choose to become an alarmer or not, or will they wait for this law to come into force? What will happen within that period of a year when employers are due to adopt general acts and will this training of the judge announced by the minister be successfully completed, since it has not been completed clearly for the trials in many others and for the actions of judges in many other areas? We are concerned and we express our concern that it will happen. We're afraid this law won't apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14539	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14540	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to the presentation of the MPs and I must refer to this last thing that has been said. First, no one here has adopted, and I remember on August 31st, the amendments to the Law on Public Records, nor was the law on the agenda. There were other laws, but that law was not, and yet I hold to it that we are all serious people present here, to speak in fact, undermined, and to quote really those laws that were changed in this Assembly on August 31st. For reminders, the Serbian Ministry of Justice first sent proposals to the National Assembly for discussion and adoption at the beginning of May of this year, and sent them to the National Assembly for debate and adoption, and that is eight laws. In those eight laws, in the transitional and final provisions, there was just a regular provision for the law to enter into force on the eighth day after the day of its publication in the Official Messenger. True, there were cases, but few, on the subject of three laws when it was not so, but when the law entered the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger", but it is not 50 laws. Thirty-fifty isn't the same. I ask you to name me 50, and I will be very happy to list the three that are proposed in the term of this government with such final provisions to the National Assembly. As for training whether they're finished or not, tell me what law training we've proposed and it's not finished, and then we'll be able to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-20-0.u14541	Thank you. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Dragan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Today's work is over. We'll continue work Monday at 10.00 hours, debate on the third set of laws. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Miljana Nikolic, Momo Colaković, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Branko Ružic. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and single search of the 11th and 12th agendas. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Alexander Vulin, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, as well as Aleksandar Stojanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, Ljiljana Juver, Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and Nenad Ivanisevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 11 and 12 and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) and Article 170(1) and Article 157(2) thereof. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on: a draft law on the employment of foreigners and a bill on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of Serbian military memorials in the territory of the Russian Federation and Russian military memorials on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Does the representative of Proposer Alexander Vulin, Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, want to say? (Yes) Here you go, Minister.
