ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5356	Thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor, Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, here's this first member we've given the amendment to, I think he's talking about the quality of this law. The government has proposed legislation and listed in the first article the municipalities to which this law will apply. So, the municipalities on which the flood and gliding damage were done and the law on the removal of this damage will apply. She did it on July 12, 2014. Almost two months after the flood, and then two days later, when she sent this law to the Assembly... I just want to let you know that I'm using my time as head of Parliament, this is what I'm saying, Mr. Chairman, for the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5357	Yes, yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5358	Since I'm also an applicant for the amendment, I'm going to talk a little bit longer. So, the first member lists 49 cities and municipalities of Serbia to which this bill should apply in the government's proposal, and then after two days when the proposal came to parliament, and many MPs including us, we noticed that some municipalities were not there. Then the government admitted that it had forgotten and made a proposal, i.e. through the Committee an amendment was made to delete the list of all municipalities and one formulation was given that the Government would now determine the exact number of municipalities. We heard from the minister that it was actually 124 or six, even. Imagine you, 49 you've counted, and it's 126. So 77 municipalities and cities in Serbia have forgotten. What kind of government forgets 77 cities and municipalities to put in a bill that should restore the Republic of Serbia and help endangered citizens. That's what it says about the insecureness of this whole law. Since only one amendment, once again of our seven, seems to me, as we have suggested, has been accepted, in fact nine, we will not ultimately support this law. As far as this particular amendment is concerned, we regret that the Government has not come into contact and accepted our solutions that have changed attitudes 1 and 3 because we believe that this is a better solution, more comprehensively. She could have found a way to accept that solution. We agree that it is better, of course, because we have added two, three municipalities to our proposal to this list, how much information we have received, and we can see that they are not on this total list, but we agree that this is the solution that the Committee has given the best, because it is the most comprehensive and will allow all those who are damaged by these floods and glides to get state aid, but it is bad that the Government sent the law without that solution by forgetting 77 municipalities and cities. I say again, a failure made which is not our amendment accepted, i.e. attitude 1 and attitude 3. I think it better defines what this law is governing, the procedure of adoption, exactly how long it is and how long it takes. Since this is the beginning of the discussion, I am reporting as head of the parliamentary group, I would like to say that because of the fact that this law begins, that such a failure is legal at the beginning, that this relationship to our amendments, we cannot vote for this law because it is a lex specialis that does not solve the continuing system problem of what happens again to some elemental accident. Are we going to have to pass the law again? It is better to go to systemic solutions that change the problem law, meaning, above all, the Public Procurement Act, that the situation is predicted to be removed from the consequences of the elementary disasters, as you have provided for by this law, and that citizens can then expect the government to react immediately, because we heard from the prime minister that the government couldn't react because of the applicable Public Procurement Act and waited for this lex specialis to be passed so that it could start working. What are we going to do if things happen again tomorrow, if we have to bring back some lex specialis, and the citizens are waiting for that time and they can't get help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5359	Thank you. The word is given by the Deputy Prime Minister, Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5360	Are you going to say that someone forgot something, or is there simply a mistake that I said, why they didn't ask why not all the municipalities were put in? We, of course, changed that article one. But I believe that you think that the law should not be passed, that it is much better that the law does not exist as it was in the period when you were in power and when you were in such an elemental accident, so it was sort of a verse. You see, we decided to have the law, to limit it to a year, to apply absolutely all the provisions of the Public Procurement Act for that year. I also believe that it would be the same for you if that law didn't exist and that it would change. With the new Public Procurement Act and how we saved this country money, however, the Serbian government has decided to have the law, to make everything very transparent, to know every dinar that came into the country, and it is related to a fundamental disaster called floods. What is also an additional reason why we have this law, unfortunately, this elemental disaster has hit a very large number of municipalities. We don't have the law in this situation, we don't find the possibility that we can react as quickly as possible, and the faster we can solve it, and the faster we can establish a normal functioning of the municipalities, it wasn't possible to do it quickly without the law. Also, from this law when you mention system solutions, I'll tell you, I agree with you that some things need to be arranged systemically, but they can't be done in a month. The rink question you mentioned here and that I saw in this article, it will certainly be resolved and cannot be resolved solely by the Republic of Serbia's budget. I believe that finally this year we'll have a map of the slide we don't have yet as a state, and then we'll go after that to solve the priority one, so on and on, how it goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5361	The word has the deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS believes that the Government of the Republic did the right thing to refuse this amendment. Nothing has been forgotten and no municipality, no city that suffered flood damage in May this year will be without the help of the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What I would like to point out on behalf of the parliamentary group, since Serbia was hit by the biggest elemental disaster, called DOS 2000, I would like to ask the question to those who criticise the Government of the Republic of Serbia and those who criticized the SNS, where in June 2001, when Jadar, Stir and the Resnik River were poured out where they were in 2005 when Tamis, where there were large floods in southern Morava, and in March and April 2006, when there was a problem throughout the Danube region through Serbia. Where were they in November 2007 when the great floods struck south of Serbia, especially the stream of the Vlasina River, so where were they in November 2009 when large floods broke out in the area of Užica, Aryl, Požega, Sjenica, Novi Pazar? Where they were in June 2009 when large floods occurred in Vrnjačka Banja and surrounding settlements. What they did in 2010 in the King, we talked about. So this is the first government of the Republic of Serbia to propose a law that will allow for the restoration of flooded areas within a period that cannot be objectively shorter. Of course, it is the right of the opposition to mock the authorities, to say, well, you proposed the law only after two months of abolishing the emergency situation in the Republic of Serbia, but allow me, objectively it couldn't have been before. So someone had to sit in this extremely difficult situation where the country was, not just because of the flood, to sit down and write a bill, someone had to sit down and write a detailed report of floods that we'd never seen before. So, where is your report on the King, where is your report on all these floods that have occurred since 2001, where you have been told what you were doing in Sjenica, what in many cities and municipalities in Serbia that have been hit hard in the last 14 years by various elemental disasters. So this government has done something that none has done and this National Assembly will do to you or without you, what no National Assembly has ever done to date. In a record short period, we will pass a law that will allow a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, autumn and winter, not to be welcomed without a roof over their heads. The alternative not to vote for this law is to leave the citizens of the endangered areas, their unfortunate fate, and to mock the government of the Republic of Serbia, as it was only two months later that it had the strength to propose one law. No government has done this, and no National Assembly has done this. We are proud of the government of the Republic of Serbia, because it has proposed such a law. No law in Serbia has been suspended because of this and no citizen of the Republic of Serbia, his right has been suspended. Because of the public, not because of the opposition, I want to say that this law does not suspend the Public Procurement Act. The open procedure is one of the public procurement procedures provided for by the Public Procurement Act, with it defined here as a priority procedure, i.e. the procedure under which public procurement will take place. Again because of the public, not because of the opposition, I would like to say that the Office for the Reconstruction of Flooded Areas is no new agency, that it is the work of civil servants who are already working in certain ministries and that practically, this office of citizens of the Republic of Serbia does not cost almost anything. So, together with us here in the Assembly, the government will do everything possible to make sure that by October 1st, all those who have lost their roof over their heads get their houses, and that within a period of validity, which means within a year, we do everything, in an extremely difficult economic situation that exists independent of these floods. These floods are just one additional problem that no one could expect, that during that period of one year we will be able to rebuild, not just housing, which is very important, we will also be able to restore the full infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. What is important is what the SNS is particularly proud of, although some have laughed and said it will not work, it is a donor conference that was held several days ago in Brussels and which has shown, and that is also very important, that Serbia has friends both in the east and in the west and that both the Russians and EU members and the Japanese and Americans and many others will help us. I see here some amendments limiting in some way the aid coming outside the EU. All this shows that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the power, has the capacity, has the credibility to do everything with us in the National Assembly to rebuild the country during this period of validity of this law for a year, and the first step is to provide a roof over its head for all people who have lost their homes, and without this law, it would not be possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5363	The head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic, reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5364	Thank you. Since I suppose and know that most or all of the questions asked by an esteemed colleague, Mr Martinovic, will be left without an answer, because there is no answer, I will try to answer at least one question. When he said where were the former governments, when Serbia, part of our state, hit the elemental disasters, where were the reports coming to the National Assembly? Here are the reports. In these five thin files, there are 12 years in Serbia. All these troubles Mr. Martinovic spoke of are in these five ballots. None of these papers, none of these reports were given by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The reports provided units of local self-government, more describing what hit them, but carefully reading nowhere I could not see any help, assistance or that anything was done by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the government run by the DS. That's how the government treated itself, that's how the party on the one hand now says -- why the report came, imagine, after two months, and on the other hand why this report is large. Well, you know, someone who didn't write reports at all or wrote units of local self-government, where the National Assembly didn't even discuss and they were invisible, can absolutely direct just such a unsuspecting criticism. I think the sentence which has been said that the government has forgotten 77 municipalities at the very least is rude, at the very least insolent, to throw dust in the eyes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all those people who have responded to the call of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Vukic, to all those volunteers who have not asked for a day or night, who have helped the representatives of the MUP, representatives of the Ministry of Defence, all members of the RS government. Can you say that in the time of the flood, at the time when people's lives were being saved, that the government of the RS forgot all of these municipalities in which the disasters occurred? Are you saying that we weren't in that territory, that the government wasn't helping, that she wasn't saving both human lives and material goods in the extent that she could have? How can someone have cheeks and say that the RS government has forgotten 77 municipalities? How many Madam Ministers have you visited at the time of the emergency? How many visits did the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, ministers in the government visit? How many municipalities have been affected? In all municipalities that are part of the report. Do you know what it means - forget it? So when a single municipality, a big city like King's City hits an earthquake, there are human casualties, major damages, no one can predict a natural disaster, no one can predict an earthquake, but it's forgotten if after five years of the earthquake of a building, a house, it's still not restored. The buildings by the health center, the old colony, not safe to stay, not moved, people as tenants, who knows where they are. Where's the King's report? Where did the money go for the king's restoration? Where are the people who lived in the former Kidrich, and now in the buildings on Dosite Street that were not also inhabited, they didn't even start work after five years? The money was collected. The Serbian Progressive Party has the honour of saying that from our modest means, those we have collected from our members, we have restored dozens of houses in the Kingdom, when we were in opposition. We kept quiet and helped. And now here is the reason why Lex specialises is being introduced so that people in Obrenovac, Mladenovac, Lazarevec, Valjev, all the cities and municipalities affected by the elemental accident, why the lex specialis is being brought in so that people can enter the houses by September, October, by autumn, to have a normal life. Just to make someone different, worse, and that's not the case. Is it an accident that hits a country where small political points are earned? No, it's not. I appeal once again that those responsible for the country's leadership, those who, as Mr Martinovic said, brought an elementary disaster in 2000, which lasted 12 years in Serbia, can say anything but simply cannot say that the RS government has forgotten 77 municipalities. Those who have forgotten the King, those who have forgotten to file a report on any elemental disaster, wherever it has happened in Serbia for the past 12 years, and I agree that they have not forgotten their own pocket, but what it is is that the SNS cannot support this amendment, because it is not submitted for honesty, but for petty political points.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5365	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dejan Nikolic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5366	Mr. Becic, you're making the same mistake you made two days ago. I've called before and what I'm about to say is not about Mr. Babic, but about Mr. Martinovic. You continue to allow it to bring disgusting insults to the expense of opposition MPs, qualified some previous governments with elemental disasters. We won't listen to it, we won't even let it happen. Or apply the Rules of Procedure, say the measures prescribed by this Rules of Procedure, or you will turn this Assembly into one Cossack group of people. Apply the Rules of Procedure and introduce order.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5367	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, by amendment, and I ask you to talk about the amendment. You're all in a circle and now I'm asking you to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, if I may speak to you for a moment. Yes, on the amendment I will, of course, speak to me, Mr. Babic took the word out of my mouth a little while ago – I cannot support it because it is truly hypocritical what is tolerated. By the way, I have to say I'm even ashamed of being a citizen of this country that we're even passing a law like this. Imagine that in 2014 we are passing a law on the restoration of the country, instead of thinking about how the country goes forward, we are passing a law to restore the state, and that law is unfortunately the fruit of years of irresponsibleness, the shameful irresponsibility of some previous furniture that led the country to this kind of chaos, and now someone here tells us that we have forgotten some of the municipalities or some of the cities. You gentlemen have forgotten the whole country. You haven't made two miserys for your entire term. You are asking us, since the applicant of the amendment, between the stands, in the discussion, when we talked about the whole of the law, told us – could the victims have been prevented? Maybe they could, but we weren't selling military boats, but you were selling for bam-bada. I'm sorry, we didn't have any resources to save the state. You're asking us to make a complete bed in two days. I asked a question here to Mrs. Mihajlovic, among other things, concerns this amendment, will anyone answer, who led this country to this, especially those by the local self-governments of the party they used to be, I don't know who now belongs to after they've split up, but, will anyone answer, since huge funds have been allocated in local self-government to defend against elementary disasters and no one answers. I don't know, does anyone want to go to jail because the country's ruined and ruined because of it? Unfortunately today, dear citizens, in 2014, we passed a law to rebuild the country, as if we had been through some period of war over the past five or six years, and now we are rebuilding the state. It's really sad when Mr. Vukic comes out to a press conference and says – "Sabac maybe we have to defend with war measures." So far we've come under you, that water has come to our throats, you've ruined us, and now you have no regard for putting up with this amendment and saying - you've forgotten a city. No, gentlemen, you've forgotten the whole country and that's why we're here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5369	Thank you. The word came from Marko Djurisic after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. What's the member?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5370	Thank you. Infringement of Article 104, right to replication. I volunteered for the replica at the time of Mr. Martinovic's presentation because he misread my presentation, spoke offensively about my presentation, about my parliamentary group, about my party. He did the same thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5371	Mr. Djurishic, according to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5372	Is there any way I can complete the explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then you can assess whether I was right or wrong?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5373	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5374	I asked for a replica of everything that was said first by Mr. Martinovic, then by Mr. Babic and finally by Mr. Djukanovic. Read Article 104 first and second position, and then on the basis of the third attitude, you decide whether or not I was entitled to a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5375	Thank you. When I heard all the three speakers you mentioned, I didn't see anything offensive based on your exposure to have the right to a replica. I'm entitled to it by the member you quoted. That's why you'd get the word after the amendment, if you wanted to. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5376	Injury of Article 106. "The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted." The agenda item is amendments to the Law on Floods in the Republic of Serbia. I was talking about the amendment that we submitted to Article 1 which, among other things, lists 49 municipalities in the Government Law. I asked the question where the 77 municipalities were, I said, forgotten municipalities. The minister said - they're not there by mistake. Then why the offensive expressions in my account, at the expense of my parliamentary group? Why express how someone has not forgotten their pockets and things like that? You had to respond and warn the MP who said it from the bench and give him a warning, in accordance with article 109, and do the same for Mr Babic, who repeated it in the microphone. See Article 109 of the Reasons for Resenting Warning, Insulting Expressions. Is it offensive that someone is telling someone that they haven't forgotten about filling their pockets, or isn't it offensive? If it's not offensive, then I can probably use it the same way, that your pockets are getting fuller and fuller every day, that you can't walk as full of your pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5377	This is an insult now. Mr. Djurishic, I take your word. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Why is this an insult now? Why did I insult someone now, and that someone didn't insult me? I thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5378	When you said - by mistake, it did not refer to someone being forgotten in that sense. I'd say more like it's even a technical mistake, but I'll prove to you why, because I've already asked for a date. The Commission has already held its session on 20 May for the assessment and determination of damages from natural disasters, which I chaired. If the first state of emergency started already on May 13th and 14th, May 15th, serious floods, then evidence that no one was forgotten to you and that May 20th was already the first session and that we had already asked for it, we agreed that we would work with municipalities and that we would get out of all municipalities as soon as possible to get the first reports. I think it's even more of a technical mistake. I don't think you've really expressed yourself in that sense that you think it's such a mistake, but you've completely insinuated something else, but, well, it's your right, I understand, as an opposition to attacking everything this government is doing, but I'm going to remind you one more time, as my colleagues in SNS reminded you, that this is the first time that a government wants to make a transparent and transparent distribution of money and help people to live normally after the terrible situations and conditions in which the entire state has been found. At the very end, if I followed correctly, and it seems to me that I did, just as my colleague from the SNS, when he was speaking, spoke about the DS government and addressed the MP group of DS. Excuse me, I don't know if you're in the DS or if you're in another party? I'd say you're not in the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5379	Thank you. The word has been given by the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5380	Mr. Chairman, Article 107. Rules of Procedure. I think somehow this National Assembly is trying to create an atmosphere of darts and targets. The target is SNS, SNS President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but the problem is that the target, however large, is unattainable. The hand is weak that holds the dart. There's no way to get to that target. He can't throw himself away, even for such a thing, and for that weakness, it's the target again. Every criticism, every reminder of the time we inherited, of the unemployment we inherited, of the state of public finances that we inherited, the exact exact exact data, immediately after that is an insult, we are immediately a Cossack Assembly, and I don't know what it is. Excuse me, please, it's not enough for you to pay the political price. People in Serbia need to know what irresponsible policy is, how much this irresponsible DS policy costs us today. This cost didn't end in 2012 and it won't end in years ahead of us and that's why we have to take heavy and unpopular measures, because the state is our first priority, because we don't think about our own pockets in which we sometimes hold hands. Whoever thinks he's being referred to because he's been filling those pockets with money, then he can find himself called. What I'm about to say again is absolutely my colleague Mr. Martinovic was right when he said that in 2000 Serbia was hit by an elemental accident, because how else do you explain the fact that 358,000 people were out of work? How else do you explain it, but as an elemental accident?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5381	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Zarec was reported by MP Dejan Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5382	Article 27. Rules of Procedure. I urge you once again to introduce order and return debate and conversation on the agenda. The MP asks very clearly where is 77 municipalities, whose citizens and facilities are damaged by this flood? We still have some conversation with the minister, and then SNS MPs are being thrown in by insulting and discrediting the opposition MPs. Please give a break, so the Minister can explain to the MPs who led the renovation in Jasa Tomic, who led the reconstruction in the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5383	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5384	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I've come to the phone a long time ago. So I've already had blood in my hand as far as I'm holding this Rules of Procedure. I've reported in accordance with Article 103 concerning Article 107. The MP has the right to point to a breach in the conduct of the National Assembly president. That's attitude one. Well, then it's attitude two. The MP cannot point to a violation of the actions of the president of the National Assembly that has already been indicated. Article 3 is particularly interesting – the President of the National Assembly gives a word to the MP who points to a violation of the position of the 1st member immediately following the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker, by the fact that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage. I believe you're a tolerance to the opposition, and I respect that. Tolerance is something I greatly appreciate about you and all the presidents. But in the future, you have to keep an eye on the gentleman who spoke for the New Democratic Party or the NDS or that abbreviations means we're not a democratic party, I don't know exactly what it is, you've given twice as much to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He was also a previous speaker. How can he advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure on himself? So, he advertised a single breach of the Rules of Procedure, you gave him an explanation, you're not a previous speaker, so you gave him the word again right after that. So, the double violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised consecutively without anyone speaking before him. It is impossible to give a word to someone after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, without having before him any other speaker but himself. You gave him a violation of the Rules of Procedure on him. I appreciate your extraordinary ability to tolerate it, but I'm asking you to balance it a little bit. Don't keep me waiting for two hours, and someone's twice advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's not right, but if it's in favour of the opposition, there's no need to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5385	Do you want the Assembly to declare this violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5386	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5387	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic also appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising Article 109. The Rules of Procedure, the part that treats offensive expressions, so curses. There were many members of the Rules of Procedure who were violated today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5389	You can't advertise a member of 109. You must have another member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5390	Then, Article 106, which speaks of the speaker being able to speak only of the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. So, the New Democratic Party gentleman here, on several occasions, insulted both the parliamentary group and the concrete MPs. We're used to your outbursts and we're used to boastful behavior, irresponsible statements. But, please, at least today, because of the seriousness of the topic, because of the importance of the agenda, please refrain from such arrogant behavior today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5391	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5392	Thank you. I supported the government of the DS that you're talking about and I'm prepared and I'm willing to bear all the consequences and responsibility for both the good and the bad that was done during that period. I am a member of the NDS, if it's not clear to any of my colleagues, the New Democratic Party, that's the name. I want to answer a few things that are repeated here, why not then something that's been done for the first time today. Fortunately for the citizens of Serbia, that I honestly think was not the kind of disaster that hit us in May. Never has an emergency been declared in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia for all of these situations that colleagues listed in the previous period. That's why the government couldn't even deliver any report to the Assembly. Local self - administrations declaring an emergency situation on their territory, in accordance with the law, have submitted reports to their congregations for consideration. I think we should make that clear. Whether there was abuse and what happens to all these citizens, there are certain contradictions. First it is said, nothing is done, and then it is said, someone stole the money that was intended. The government has identified funds for each of these situations to help citizens both in 2001 and 2005 and in 2007 and 2010. They were different governments. Were there any abuses at the time, of course, I call on the investigative authorities to find out as soon as possible and to the perpetrators of the sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5393	According to the amendment, the MP, Dr Dejan Nektarijević, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5394	Madam Minister, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, I come from the Municipality of Smederevska Palanka. I've been listening a lot these days when there were flood debates, just about the community I come from. I fully welcome the government's plan and the establishment of the office for very simple reasons. There's a lot of control in this country, and there's no system solutions. By the way, in order not to get into a situation where I tell disgusting lies, open an audit report for 2012 in which you will see the state of Smederevska Palanka municipality. It's 275 days in the blockade. I'm not going to say I still have an accident there, but I'm going to say I had a flood. But, a hundred-year average, I have a flood in 1999, the first one, which is above a hundred-year average. The watery area of Smederjevska Palanka is the largest central, the largest water stream in central Serbia. In 1999, extensive work was done to protect the area from floods. It affects an area of 3,820 kilometers. Since colleagues like to deal with facts and systemic solutions, I would only point out that this is an elite company called the "Serbian Water Management", which was held by the Smederjevska Palanka, in 2006 privatised. Certain political groups think that there are enough things to privatise and that they continue to work, without any use or control. The future, i.e. the fate of the company, was that in 2010, this large area was left unprotected. It happened that in 2014, after 15 years, we get a hundred-year average of water again and we have a flood. When you leave one territory without work on the walls, I won't tell you here a full report, that means we didn't have the responsibility to treat basics in agriculture. I'm not going to tell you that all the dams in that territory were made from 1962 to 1978, at the time of communism, that all the meliorative works were done then, that the Prime Minister Vukic asked for irrigation, of which we have four dams prepared for irrigation even then, but there's no program. There is no program because municipal leadership is autistic and quite incompetent. I welcome the formation of this office for a very simple reason. These people were flooded in 1999, then in 2014. It would be very good, given that these are not people of great material condition, that the funds be delivered to the right address. I think they're more dissatisfied with injustice in the past, and I think they'll be more content and less resourceful, just that there's no injustice. By the way, I think setting up an office is a great move and I support it. I know right now this is just about working on the consequences of the flood. We systems can't form so quickly in the next period, and it's going to be a little longer as we form water companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5395	The word has a folk MP Katarina Rakic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5396	I'll speak for the amendment I applied for. I believe that, at this point in time and on this topic, the word “forgotten” is too heavy, because I doubt anyone in this report intended it. On the other hand, when I read this amendment, which I assume you wanted to fix the text, you only added Cicicec, and you noticed how many municipalities were missing? I don't think you're fair either, and it would be best if this amendment were withdrawn, not defended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5397	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5398	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, co-workers and fellow MPs, we cannot ignore the fact that, on the basis of this report, the European officials also gave a positive assessment. I will quote Mr Michael Davenport, the head of the EU delegation to Serbia, who said the following -- I think that Serbia has put its needs in a very transparent manner based on the damage assessment, which we have worked together with colleagues from the World Bank, the UN and the EU. Gentlemen, your paths have been all over the world for the past 12 years...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5399	Mr. Novakovic, please don't speak to other MPs. Let me just finish what I started, please. So, don't speak to other MPs, and please, we're with the amendment to Article 1, just in case you forgot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5400	Yes, it is. The amendment is totally unacceptable, but I just want to point out some of the facts that we didn't have to come to this in the previous period, since the previous governments traveled all over the world and told us that they needed the experiences they had collected, brought to the state of Serbia, and in fact they were talking to the people, the other ones were talking around the world, and the third ones were working here... I quote Mr. Michael Davenport. This morning he said what I said about the EU, the World Bank. So, if this report is acceptable to them, which is based on the professional data they received from our ministers or the Prime Minister, they accept it, so don't we know that we appreciate it? I have one concrete proposal for opposition colleagues, given that they participate in the debate, that they organise one donor conference and that they collect funds from all those who have made a fortune in the previous period during their government and thus show solidarity in this elemental disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5401	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Dr Janko Veselinović appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5402	Dear Chairman, I assume you know which member I'm going to advertise, but I can tell you. It's about Article 106. - that the speaker is obliged to talk about the agenda point in progress. I understand and understand the MPs that they have written some speeches in time for some topics, perhaps for this debate in principle, but today is not a debate in principle. They're not just talking about the principle, they're talking about Michael Davenport's report, and today he's not sitting there, nor is his report on the agenda. If we could talk about things, realistically, we could say that the previous government did 20 kilometers of foot-and-mouth disease in Capco, 10 kilometers in Novi Sad, we could talk about the truth, not the truths that are being brought up here today, and the fact that you haven't been able to finish a few hundred meters or maybe more than a mile away, not talk about Michael Davenport's report and topics that aren't on the agenda. Let's focus on the amendments that are on the agenda today and try to hear from the minister, not the first Deputy Prime Minister, but the Deputy Prime Minister, more correctly, do we really have a chance to have a renewal by autumn and is the minister ready, unless it is fulfilled, to resign? By autumn there are 60 days left, 23 September this year arrives in Serbia. Are you going to resign if you don't meet the obligation that every family has a roof over their heads? I am obliged, if you say so, to make my parliamentary mandate available, if otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5403	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5404	It continues to insult the MPs of the SNS. I can only ask you, Mr. Chairman, how long and how long do you think the threshold is tolerance? Do you think he's... Marko Djurisic, from the post: Which member? ) Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. Do you think it's a good thing that in a public debate, in a parliamentary debate, a fellow colleague says - someone there wrote. So what if he wrote it? SNS deputies are preparing for each session. They're writing amendments. They're writing about the discussion in principle. Who writes to you, since there's so many irregularities, I don't want to use a harder connotation, and I'm free to say, nonsense... Really someone should deal with everything that's been said. That someone should report to the Rules of Procedure, and then ask Mrs. Secretary when she'll resign and report on another subject, what does that look like? What wrinkles are we talking about in Capco? What wrinkles are we talking about in Capco? Twenty-fivekm of embankment in Sapac was defended by police, members of the Serbian Army. Seventy-centimetres of Sava was in that... Laugh, Mr. Veselinovic. Everything's funny to you. The trouble that has struck our country, you answer with laughter. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5405	The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5406	Chairman, you have violated Article 27. You are required to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. First, you interrupted my colleague Milan Novakovic, who spoke about the amendment, and then you allowed a fellow opposition member to report in, talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and then take out a replica and ask for the minister's resignation. I ask you to keep an eye on how you conduct this session and to have the same arches towards power and opposition at this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5407	Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word has a Messenger of the people, Blagoja Bradic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5408	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, today we're talking about the bill... Can you give me back my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5409	Please reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5410	I've been in this House for three months, and I've been trying really hard to be correct with everyone and to address everyone with all due respect. I'd just like to ask you to make sure that all due respect I give my colleagues is returned. I listen to everyone, no matter what they say, no matter what they say, very carefully, and I would ask you to allow me to concentrate on what I say, no matter if anyone wants to listen to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5412	Thus, the bill promoter wrote in Article 1 that this law regulates the removal of the effects of floods, i.e. the activation of a slide in the area affected by floods in the Republic of Serbia that occurred in May 2014. The area affected by the floods, within the meaning of this law, includes flooded rinks, endangered parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and a list of places to go. We propose a new amendment, which reads - this law regulates the way and procedure for the adoption of the programme of measures and activities to tackle the effects of the floods, i.e. the activation of a slide in the area of affected floods in the Republic of Serbia, which took place in May 2014. Competent bodies and operating deadlines as well as other issues which are relevant to the application of the law and with the aim of protecting life and health, the protection of property and property, the protection of the environment and natural resources, cultural goods and cultural infrastructures, as well as other rights and freedoms, and the creation of conditions for the establishment of normal life and the pursuit of economic, educational and cultural activities. The area affected by floods, within the meaning of this law, covers flooded and ice-skating parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is the city of Belgrade, and then lists municipalities and cities in Serbia that are covered by this elemental disaster. In an explanation, I would also say that the proposed amendment is more precisely governed by the subject matter of the law and period of validity of this law, which is in accordance with the rules of legal normation. In addition, the area affected by the floods in respect of which this law applies, including the Municipality of Ćicicovac, and we have heard now other municipalities that were subsequently included in the list of affected municipalities, as a direct damage of 1.5m euros has occurred in the area of the municipality as a result of the flood. I hope that Madam Minister, since you said that this law with a period of one year is the case, and since we have it in the amendment, we will explain in more detail why this amendment is now not responding if everything that you have said so far, how carefully I have listened and read this, I have been able to understand, covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5413	By amendment, MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5414	Dear colleagues, I was among the first to speak on the principle of this law, and then I recognized clearly and clearly the opening statement by Ms. Mihajlovic, who made it clear that there was a technical failure and that it was 126 municipalities and cities in Serbia, not these 48, as many as it was counted. Then, with my colleague Velimir Stanojevic, I submitted an amendment covering all 126 cities and municipalities. Based on the government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to accept the list on 4 July. However, the Infrastructure and Traffic Committee concluded that it is not a good solution to count cities and municipalities along with, of course, the emphasis on the city's municipalities of Belgrade, but rather to go with a general formulation. In the meantime, he showed up, for example. The town municipality of Barajevo, which is not in the 126 municipalities, and therefore me and my colleague Stanojevic withdrew our amendment and accepted the Committee's amendment, which defines the flooded areas in one general way. What I would like first of all to appeal is for passions to calm down here. I see that other colleagues have also submitted amendments to this Article, paragraph 2 of this Law. I see that the colleagues, who came from where they were from, have endured this one or possibly two surrounding places. What I understand and understand, not defending Mrs. Minister, I think that really the Ministry, at least in this case, isn't wrong, this technical failure came, first of all, in my opinion, the Office of Reconstruction. This will be a lesson for all of us for some of our next jobs. What's important and what I want to mention specifically is that this law should be passed as soon as possible. We need to move into this reconstruction as soon as possible. That's the key thing, and now that we're using it, I come from a municipality that, I don't know, isn't on the list, and it's clearly seen from the government of the Republic of Serbia since 4 July that the municipality is covered. It's not good if we start with this many polemics from the first member of a law to be the key to rebuilding the country over the next year. What is also important and what I want to point out, first of all because of all the viewers who are following this transmission, is that this is a special law, that this law will be valid for a year and that after one year this Assembly, after the government's report, will be familiar with the simple complete renewal and where the money has gone, which has been collected by taxpayers, which is from donors in that restoration. What I would just like to hear from Madam Minister is, we are witnessing that a donor conference has been completed, we are witnessing that we have received certain funds, which donations, which are favourable loans, but I would only return to one detail that I mentioned in the principle debate, and this is also mentioned by my colleague from the MP club, Mrs Dubravka Filipovski, and that is – is there a possibility that domestic legal persons will be released from paying VAT on donations? That's something that we, I must say, are a little deprived of for the answer and I think it is necessary to make that answer clear, because already earlier, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has freed the party and the physical and legal sides of the person. I think after this donor conference it's clear that in the domestic economy, whatever it is, there are still some spare resources that can be used properly in the country's recovery after such elemental disasters. We believe that it would be a kindness for those domestic legal persons to be equal with foreign legal persons. Once again, I would ask all my colleagues, we are on the first member, we have many amendments ahead of us, and I think that because of the acceleration of this whole debate, and it is very important that this law be passed as soon as possible and that it will be delivered as soon as possible from next week. These results must be visible, on every damaged road in the middle of the floods in Serbia, and on every other infrastructure facility, and especially on houses that are for the housing of those people who wait every day, so they can't move in, because as other colleagues have said – autumn is there, winter is there and therefore this law must be passed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5415	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5416	Thank you. It won't be just once a year and after a year. The office and the government will not file a report, but they can do so as it says in the law, but after the third month is up, and they can do so sooner. Of course, between all time and on the site everything that happens and what happens to the recovery will be completely public. As far as VAT is concerned for domestic legal persons, that is not possible. The tax system would be broken. Among other things, the Ministry of Finance has very detailed and long explanations. So in that sense, we didn't do it. But, regarding the report, everything has to be not for a year, but today, in public so that no one thinks anything. In the end, that's why we're passing the law. As for the people who have lost their homes, the 485 houses that have been completely destroyed, I repeat once again, and the government behind that stands, all those who have lost their homes by the fall will be in those homes and live.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5417	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5418	Thank you. Member of the proposal for a law currently under investigation is Article 1. Proposal for a law on the removal of the consequences of floods in the Republic of Serbia. That article 1 reads in two terms. The first position – this law regulates the removal of the effects of floods, i.e. the activation of a slide in the area affected by floods in the Republic of Serbia, which took place in May 2014. The area affected by the floods within the meaning of this law covers flooded and gliding areas of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and to the City of Belgrade, the municipality of Obrenovac, Lazarec, Mladenvac, Grocka and Rakovica, the towns of Sremska Mitrovica, Šabac, Loznica, Valjevo, Čačak, Užice, Jagodina, Kraljevac, Kragujevac, Požarjevac and Zaječar and the municipalities of Bajana Basta, Kosjerić, Požega, Ub, Osijek, Ljig, Ljak, Lajovac, Milika, Bogatić, Vladimirci, Koceljeljeva, Mali Zvornik, Krupanj, Ljuboj, Ljubović, Gornji Milanovac, Lužanj, Ražanj, Doljevac, Petrovac, Petrovac on Mlavi, Smederevska Pala, Velika, Paračin, Paraćin, Paraćin, Šipić, Šiprić, Šipić and Trpić, Var. My contribution to the discussion is to support the amendment submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, with the intention and desire to be absolutely clear about what this article is about and what is the debate on the likely form of this member, given that not only the MP Marko Djurisic, who has submitted a detailed and precise amendment, which Mr Bradic has read, but also submitted to the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications of the National Assembly. The amendment to the Committee, as the Government said in the report, accepts, reads in Article 1. The draft law shall be deleted. This means that the names of all cities, cities, cities, and municipalities that I read in the article are deleted as set out in the Bill of Law. The position, therefore, is completely deleted under the proposed amendment of the Committee, and two new positions are added after Article 1: "The area affected by the floods, within the meaning of this law, includes flooded and skating areas of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, cities and municipalities that report damage to the Commission for the determination of damages from the natural disasters within the time limit provided for by this law. The list of cities and municipalities in which the consequences of the floods and the activation of the gliders will be eliminated, in accordance with this law, shall be determined by the Government on a proposal from the Commission to determine the damage to the elemental disasters." The truths are also working on our obligations to deal with the topic of the agenda, at this point no one can know the list of cities and municipalities, because that list of cities and municipalities will be established only when this law comes into force and when the Government, on a proposal from the Commission to determine the damages of elementary disasters, determines what cities, urban municipalities or municipalities in Serbia. Why is it important to talk about this? Because not only do we listen carefully to people from cities and municipalities who are currently part of Article 1 under the original bill, but because we are obliged to discuss the facts, when it comes to determining each individual member of the law in search of particulars. Whether or not it was 49 or 126, whether or not there were technical or fundamental errors, whether there was any subsequent thinking, at the moment it is completely irrelevant, since the list of cities and municipalities that will be found to be subject to the removal of flood damage and the glider is yet to be established and, of course, hopefully available to the public. This is also important because I have listened carefully to the previous debate on this member of the law, although, almost in most discussions, I have been having a hard time monitoring that anyone is touching the content of the proposed member, the amendment of the Committee of the Changed Member, or the amendment of the MP Mark Djurisic, in whose contribution I am speaking. I don't think it's going to do anyone any good, like, and I'm going to come up with two sentences on the agenda and respect for my business obligation to talk about the agenda, but it's really not good that the Director of the Office is making statements that local self-governments aren't doing their jobs, because those various jobs should only work after the adoption of this law. If on a subject of such a great tragedy where human lives are lost, if on a long list of cities and municipalities in Serbia, we do not understand that they are the center and that they are the only topic during our debate, then it will be more or less whatever the law that is currently under investigation will look like. That is why I am reading in such detail both the proposed member and the accepted amendment of the Committee and the amendments of my fellow Members of Parliament to whom I wish to give my support. Finally, perhaps unusual for members of the opposition Democratic Party, I support the minister in a clear statement that the removal of the VAT on demands should not be and cannot be. It's not pleasant to say when you're a member of the government, and just because I know how uncomfortable it is, I've been against it so many times, every time someone makes it very convenient to ask any government, whether I support it or not, to cancel the VAT once and only for something. There's no good out of it for anyone, except we agree that we can just ignore the rules a little bit. I would like this member of the law to be such that the Committee agrees and accepts part of the amendment submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, since it explains in more detail what it is all that will be removed from the flood, and I am absolutely sure that as soon as the government determines the list of cities and municipalities in which the flood and glider damage will be removed, that list will be available, whether on the government or office website, whether as a conclusion of the government or a solution that will be published in the "Official Messenger", but certainly it will be available to the public. Only then will we be able to really talk about why the government forgot some of the municipalities at some point, because obviously it is, because they are not here and if there are any other municipalities and cities that should have been on the already established list, but then we will talk about facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5419	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The People's MP Katarina Rakic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5420	The Honorable Chairman, a injured member of 106, and I believe that the previous MP, with so much experience as she has in holding a session, simply eight minutes, spoke of something that is not a topic. As far as I'm doing the session, I think we're on the amendment to Article 1. As for Article 1, three plus two more amendments have been filed that have been withdrawn. Is something united here now, or are we following the wrong way? We heard the text of the amendment submitted by Mr Djurisic, we heard the text of the amendment submitted by the Committee, and I don't know what amendment to defend now? We heard about the rebuilding office and the other office, and now I really can't keep track. You were obliged to stop her. I want you to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5421	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (Yes) According to the amendment, MP Boban Birmancevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5422	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Chairman, the honourable fellow MPs, the respected citizens, I really need to talk and I want to talk about the amendment, and why is there always talk about some form and not the essence? The essence is very simple. This change where it is said and clearly defined that all municipalities, cities and places covered by the flood, gliding or some other kind of elemental accident will be covered, why are we re-emphasizing on the list, when it is clearly stated? The promoter saw the mistake and said yes, that's how it's going to be. Simply, this truly historic one, and I say historically for the reason that I come from a city that, on the one hand, defends itself against the flood wave of the Sava River, and on the other hand had a flood in the villages of Micus, Mrdenec, Orid, Orasac, Majur, Jevremovac, part of the coastal canal around the town of Šapca, so I know very well how important this law is to remove the consequences of the flood. Just so we don't waste time, trust the people who are at risk, who are in endangered areas, it's important not every month, not every day, but every hour and every minute. I really insist that, as soon as possible, this "lex specialis" vote and apply, because, believe me, that deadline would not occur again, which was given within eight days to report damage is really enough, because any extension of that deadline would actually have an extended effect – it would later start to rebuild. Citizens in flooded areas expect us to start working as long as yesterday and indeed every deadline must be as short as possible. Those who have suffered damage have indeed had time and these eight days are just a term for some who are not, for some reason, to have the possibility of supplementing and reporting damage. What's more important is that when it comes to Shabac, I just have to say for a short time that there's no reason to doubt the wrinkles around Sapac, they were what they were, but they were able to defend Sabac with the help of the citizens, the military, the interior ministry and, of course, the entire government and the citizens of Serbia. What's more important is that for all this time since the flood, which began there about two months ago, we've been able to come out with a concrete proposal after two months. Is this law perfect? Of course not, but of course we're going to be able to clear the gaps. What is essential is that this government, that these ministries, that this Assembly wants to help its citizens and will help them in the best and fastest way. One of these ways is just the adoption of this flood-relieving law. In line with this, this is an amendment where it simply says clearly in this article that everyone will be covered and we will put an end to it and we will move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5423	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Comic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5424	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured a member of 103 who obliges you to give an explanation to a MP who is calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and only then ask, if he is not satisfied with the explanation, whether it is stated. So, I'd like now to ask an explanation why you didn't give an explanation, and I think we'll agree that we don't have to make a statement about my assessment that in this case the chairman has violated a provision that obliges him to give an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5425	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I'd very much like to give an explanation, but I don't think my argument would be useful at this point. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5426	I suggest not to adopt this amendment. With full confidence that it was submitted in the best of intentions, I don't think any amendment can fix this law. A law that in its first member, there is general agreement and proposings, the government of Serbia and all MPs that this first member is not right and that it should be changed. Not to call upon certain sayings -- how something is born, that time cannot be fixed. I think it's wasted enough time waiting for a law like this that's unnecessary. Serbia has enough laws and institutions and responsible people to deal with the consequences of the flood. I don't think there's any reason to bring any kind of Lex special, to set up any special offices that need to remove the effects of the flood. Two months and one day is the day of the "D" when the floods began. I'm sure it's been 45 days since the water retreated and nothing has been done since then, absolutely nothing. If this law is an obstacle to something being done or he's a condition of doing something, I think it's better if he's gone and the authorities are doing their job. What kind of departments are these? First we have the Department of Emergency. The Ministry of Emergency is absolutely under the Government Act competently, ready and has already been obliged to take all measures at a time when the emergency situation began, let alone 45 days after that. It's very strange to set up an office next to so many ministries that exist. It's not my confidence in the ministers who are in the Serbian government. If you had to bring someone in, and it also had something to do with article one, because if the government were good, it wouldn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5427	Mr. Zivkovic, please, just explain to me what a member's name is?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5428	What I'm explaining is proof that the government is bad, because it has proposed a law that does not suit its first member's principles, and so does the government. That's unserious. That is probably why it is necessary to establish an office with one employee, as we heard the other day, and to get 80,000 euros from the budget reserve for one employee. It's a very interesting coincidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5429	Mr. Zivkovic, I don't think you're talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5430	I think I'm talking more about the amendment than my predecessor used to say. So, please, this isn't a test for a fireman, a lifeguard, so I need to know the technical details. I'm talking about the essence of the subject. Parliamentaryism means...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5431	Mr. Zivkovic, you are a National MP, you must read the amendment if you want to talk about this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5432	Do I have to read it now in front of you?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5433	No, you need to know exactly what amendment you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5434	Of course I've read it, about the amendment to Article 1, it's very clear, where it's proposed to delete all these cities and put in another formulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5435	Mr Zivkovicu, we are on Article 1, on the amendment submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. It's a widespread amendment and I'm asking you to just fit into that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5436	I think it is more important for the citizens of Serbia to understand whether someone will help them with the effects of the flood. We didn't find out who did it. I hope that the authorities and authorities will determine who is responsible for the consequences of the floods that didn't have to happen. An example of Obrenovac, and I'm afraid both the people of Obrenovac and all of Serbia look at a government that prepares some special law and special office with the goal of doing what was to be done more than 45 days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5437	Thank you. The People's MP, head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic, came forward after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5438	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are proud to support the work that has caused us fundamental disasters, and we are proud to support the concept of the government of the Republic of Serbia that the money is being collected to rebuild our country is being poured into one place, that the money for the reconstruction is being spent from one place. We're proud of the transparency of this procedure. We are proud of the way the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic entrusted the job to a man who is not from the world of politics, but from the NGO sector. Suddenly, these swearing Europeans are no good in the government sector either. We saw it earlier, and it bothers them even when EU officials say something and praise. In any case, Mr. Zivkovic's time, when everything was behind closed doors, when it was in four eyes and in two glasses of whiskey, when the deals and the tats and the deals were negotiated, was over and will never come back. The time when the vine chocolates and the subsidies for the raising of the already built vineyards were shared by such a bourse amongst themselves. This is a time of strong institutions. This is a time of transparency. This is a time of respect for the law. One to whom such a time does not respond acts irresponsiblely and criticises in the way the previous speaker did. In any case, there is one saying in our people, a little wider, and it says: “The dogs are barking, the caravans are passing away. ” We will continue to work transparently, publicly, we will act by law, like it or not like those who have worked against the law and against the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5439	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, by the replica to the direct mention of the name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5440	First, I think the mention of this proverb is ultimately really embarrassing to the members of the largest parliamentary group. That level of self-criticism, of course, I expected, but someone to apply a saying to themselves: "The dogs are barking and the caravans are passing," which is unfortunately unacceptable, and I regret my fellow MPs for having to endure it. That whiskey, first of all, is common knowledge that I drink wine. Let go of that whiskey, use the words of your wise man who is currently absent, the boss of your MP group, and then use that epic and that poetry he's using. The time you imagine, as some imagine, I don't speak directly to you, as some imagine, how it's done by the prime minister or the government, that whiskey, the closed door, that's how little Djokica runs the state. Little Dick can grow a little.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5441	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, the words you've spoken are not like this high house.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5442	You think dogs are good, don't you?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5443	No, but that, that previous word you said. Please adjust your dictionary to this high home.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5444	I'm sorry. I apologize again. As little Marco imagines, it's not Dickie, it's Marco.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5445	That's much better.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5446	Anyone small. If who's little, then how does he imagine it? Thus, the time when decisions were made very publicly and very clearly, sometimes in the squares, sometimes with 100,000, 200,000 people, sometimes with two and a half million votes in the elections. It's not the first time now, it's happened in the Serbian history of the '90s, so in 2000, so here we go again. A large number of votes that someone wins in the election do not give him the right to do the right thing, but give him the obligation to behave responsibly. When you realize that, you'll be a serious party.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5447	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Professor Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Zivkovic has injured Article 107. A Rules of Procedure that speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly but in a drastic way. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia of something that Mr. Zivkovic seems to have forgotten, and this is an affair about the sale of the Nis tobacco industry when the state was damaged by nearly 8m euros because it had to pay so-called. Stimulating severances for the voluntary departure of workers. No one could remember why he had to pay for it. When asked then by Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic, he said -- I don't know, ask Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, that it would eventually turn out to be done on the basis of the conclusion reached by the then Serbian government, whose president was Mr. Zivkovic, on 12 September 2003. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this because the lessons about us doing something 45 days ago are what we should have done when the emergency situation is lifted, the ones who did this kind of thing. Faster, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia couldn't do this. The government of the Republic of Serbia will fulfill its promise to build houses and its promise to rebuild all the infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia over the next year. The legal basis for all this is the law we're going to pass today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5449	I thank Mr. Martinovic. Mr. Zivkovic, on what basis are you answering? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: My last name is mentioned. ) Your last name was mentioned, but I did not see anything negative about your last name in his speech. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: On the contrary, said that the government that destroyed the state on September 12th was the decision I chaired. If you recognize yourself. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Of course I recognized myself. I must have recognized myself, but it can't hurt me. You know, there are people who can't insult you. Never, but I just want to deny... . Mr. Zivkovic, Mr. Martinovic reported to the Rules of Procedure without any replicas to the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Yes, but he used the Rules of Procedure as a replica, I guess you noticed. Well, that's what the President of Parliament would tell you if he were here next to you. ) Please do not have the opportunity to receive a replica based on the Rules of Procedure, you have your time and that is 20 seconds and when you are in a row you can contact me. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5450	An esteemed colleague who tried to use the great saying "what the coat of arms is born of time does not correct", simply to tell him, he said it, wrote, for all time left us Valtazar Bogisic, the creator of the General Property Code for Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5451	Please, for information, tell me on what basis you called.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5452	By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5453	All right, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5454	It's just that we don't use such big old words. As for the amendment, you know what, if we see a complete opposition here, they don't agree that this amendment should not be accepted at all. I agree that I don't have to accept it, but I have to admit, that big saying is just talking, and it's about the amendment, because what really came out of the coat of arms in 2000 time couldn't make it right, so today we've come into a situation to pass the law to rebuild the country. And you are as you are, since you do not help each other, the treasure of every authority to which you are the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5455	Just one notice. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5456	The Honorable Chairman, the Deputy Prime Minister, unlike my fellow respected Djukanovic, who is disappointed that this law is now being passed, I am fascinated by the effectiveness of the opposition state. We see in action how it works when the people of power send you into opposition, and then you meet 77 places in Serbia that you may not even know where they are in any condition, and for 12 years you forget the six major disasters that hit this country there are no reports, no words, no letters. Another important thing, we've heard an incredible line of responsibility. It's nice to have that notion back on our political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5457	Mr. Krlic, please do you speak by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5458	Yeah. That is why I propose that we reject this amendment because it is the dishonesty of those who propose such an amendment to us today, and they have shown in their work what it was like to take care of the fundamental disasters in this country. When the Honorable MP of the opposition explained the amendment, that is, defended the amendment, I believed that we would hear the voice of reason, but in the end we heard the political message again and everything goes on in circles. As a result, this government is approaching this problem so responsibly, and I hope that for all those who will be in the future, and I hope very rarely, they will still have certain security to apply this law. Here certain MPs are offended when reference is made to the elemental disaster as a figure of speech. I must remind you, for the first time, I am an MP in this assembly and for the first time I entered this hall and was fascinated by its appearance, I was fascinated by the works of our ancestors who did something like this, and gave us the opportunity, small and unworthy to deal with important state issues here. Now that I have to deal with these most important state issues, we've had a chance to hear the man who was the only one among us at the head of this country, he was prime minister, as he now remembered responsibility. I apologize for not making a difference between the new and the old DS, because among the new ones I see all the old and nobody new, but I hope that this thought of the holy spirit is that they finally have a sense of responsibility and a sense of 77 places in Serbia that are suffering is talking about the good way of this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5459	I thank Mr. Krlic and thank you for accepting my suggestion to talk about the amendment. The word is made by the MP Vladan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5460	I'll just say a little bit about the amendment. This law should be adopted with the amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure, Telecommunications. I don't see any need to re-admit this amendment we're talking about right now. I also support the establishment of the Office for the Elimination of Floods. Why? In 2010, the state defined for the municipality of Vladimira certain funds for which we had never established how much they were, and even less, we were able to determine where these funds were spent and no one had ever been responsible for it, nor had anyone ever made any insight into where the funds were spent and they were exclusively defined for the collection of water streams and the removal of the effects of the floods. Because of all this I support this law and the establishment of this office, and of course this amendment does not seem to have any need to discuss it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5461	Thank you. On the basis of Articles 157, 6 and 161(1), Article 1(1) shall apply. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under Rule 1 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The government has accepted the amendment as in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Please, Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5462	It is the government that declares that it accepts this amendment and that we will not put the municipalities numbered, whether 46, 26 or 126, but all those who report their damage. On this occasion, I would also like to inform the MPs that the Commission for the Assessment of the damages that I am chairing, the complete damage for the time being, local self-government, municipalities, cities, is also on the Ministry's site, in the Commission's section, we have specific tables for public enterprises. The assessment of the damage is for now, for 126 municipalities, precisely in all areas of traffic, municipal activity, etc. That's the assessment of the damage for now, and we'll see in the next period of additional municipalities and additional estimates.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5463	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The People's MP Katarina Rakic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5464	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister and the Government for accepting this amendment because we have proposed such an amendment precisely to avoid these amendments to MPs who have instructed only the names of their municipalities, which I consider to be really selfish, and yet as far as the Government's report itself is concerned, where 126 municipalities are listed, it may still not be the final number of municipalities, because certainly this law has eight days to register some other municipalities that may not be on that list. As for the very responsibility of that, who may have left out these municipalities, I hope that the minister has already responded there, knowing personally, I do not believe it will remain that way, but we, as the Committee here, wanted to make one, to say filter, so in attitude 2, we also changed that the Government was establishing a list but not on the proposal of the office, but on a proposal from the Commission to determine the damages from the elemental accident. What we may have left out after the adoption of this article, but in fact we wanted to be even more specific, is two words where we said "citys and municipalities". We left out "city municipalities". So this morning we had a change in this member we don't have the government's opinion on, so I would just ask you to accept him on this occasion, that is, to express the government's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5465	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5466	The government is pleading to accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5467	I find the amendment with the correction has been accepted. The People's MP Gordana Komic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5468	Thank you. A question for the vice president of the government, checks it out. This amendment, which will now be the first member of this law, discusses the Commission for the determination of damages from natural disasters. Does this mean to the Commission how it is formed now or does it mean a special solution to the education of committees or a different composition of committees? It doesn't matter for the amendment, I'm curious if you want to answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5469	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5470	According to the Government's Rules of Procedure, the damage assessment commission is a permanent working body, and the commission was formed as soon as the government was formed, so the Commission's composition has changed as the government has changed. Therefore, I chair the commission, it already works, it has already had five or six sessions of its own, and it is a permanent working body, not something that will be limited. That's what she's thinking. We'll put exactly what it's called if we have to. So, no new commission but an existing commission. It's this commission that I said had its place on the site, and it's going to be on the office, where not only are there all sessions, but all the damage assessments so far have been established.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5471	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The People's Messenger, Milisav Milojevic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5472	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from the municipality of Arangelovac, where unfortunately we have experienced two natural disasters, which are floods that hit us on 14 May and 25 June, a great storm that has damaged many houses. With this amendment, we will certainly be covered by ourselves, the Arangelovka Municipality, and on a daily basis I had the demands and questions of my fellow citizens whether we as a municipality that has been significantly damaged in previous floods that hit us in the period from 14th to further May, where we have suffered damages that are now estimated at more than 100 million dinars, where a lot of houses have been flooded, damaged a lot of objects. We also had people's lives threatened, but unfortunately there were no human lives, because with the rapid intervention of the services that they had then responded we managed not to do so. And the C.E.O. worked adequately, and in time he managed to get the points that were critical to resuscitate and avoid these catastrophic floods that hit Obrenovac and other areas. I can only say that in addition to this accident and this elemental accident, we had a stormy storm on June 25th where the storm damaged over 1,500 objects, where over a million pieces of tick was destroyed, where the maltenes of over 1,000 households were left without a roof over their heads and that this current addition of the law was not passed so that we would be really damaged, we wouldn't know how. Local self-government is not so rich that it can resuscitate everything and help its population. I can only say that in all the elemental disasters that occurred on May 25th, that a large number of long-range pillars were damaged, and the low-voltage network was also badly damaged. We are some quick intervention, I thank this time the people of the EPS who have managed to react and that our citizens get electric energy, and this time I would also like to thank in particular on behalf of the citizens of the municipality of Arangelovac, is that the government, which I often hear here is not responding on time, is not true. In time, she also reacted from the goods reserves to the municipality of Arangelovac and their population about 500,000 creps, where we managed to cover all households, so that people do not sneeze over their heads, and we will continue to try to see what we will do to continue with the help of the government and with the help of this law to resuscitate other objects. I'd like to ask you a question, maybe the Minister will know to answer us, because it wasn't clear to me. We've had this elemental accident, as far as that storm is concerned. This law refers to floods and that. Will we be able and in what way we will be able to report both this damage and this in the context of this law on public procurement, with various donations and from local self-government, or with the help of the Government to try to resuscitate damaged households and help our citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5473	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5474	Let me explain. You've just got this working body, and it's the Commission to determine the damage to the elemental accidents. This commission, as a permanent working body, has determined the damage from previous some of the basic disasters both last and last year, and so has the one you mentioned now, the storm that was. I have to admit that through the commission and through the direct government, it reacted. I know that we've made decisions about creps, etc., and I know that municipalities have mostly appeared, together with ministers who went on tour, since it's a smaller volume of municipalities. Not this law, but directly to the Commission and the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5475	Ivan Karic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5476	Within the time of the parliamentary group. Just one question. Since you have informed us about the city's municipalities, is this what we have already discussed in principle, means that the city's municipalities will be able to do with their public enterprises, since they are not local self-government units, and it is a thermal pipeline and other infrastructure, that they work within this law and together with the office, regardless of being a unit of local self-government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5477	Thank you, Mr. Karic. The Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5478	Absolutely. Just like we talked about in the principle debate, no matter what, of course they're going to work. The carrier will be, say, Belgrade, but the Obrenovac municipality is working.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5479	Thank you. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic's folk e-mail came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5480	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, fellow MPs, this amendment should indeed show the responsibility not only of the ministry and government, but of the Serbian Parliament in joint work. In practice, you have received in some way the EU's award by showing that such system solutions, such as this law, are indeed able to make all that can be determined by the grant from funds related to the recovery of damages from elementary disasters possible and a solution. That's exactly the model. With system solutions, we can only solve certain problems that exist, and this is one of the system solutions. What did it look like before? Earlier, the budget of certain cities paid on the budgets of cities affected by certain floods. In that part of solving the problem, simply, the Republic solved the ad hoc, from the budget reserve, and then we got the syphilic solutions. The European funds alone could not react in these situations. This amendment, which the Committee has set, should be an example of how each of the following problems should be addressed when we have certain systemic solutions, which are being resolved for the first time, as for the first time practically the Government and Parliament now have such proposals that simply show the ultimate responsibility of the state, first and foremost towards their citizens, as well as the protection of goods. Therefore, the opposition should support such proposals when specifically proposed by the board, because we have no party division on boards and therefore should sometimes show extreme responsibility, especially when it comes to elemental disasters. Obviously, we are faced with climate change, and it is obvious that these problems will be everyday, that only the question of the level of damage will come in some way as the points of the agenda, and it is good that this Assembly has for the first time considered a report on elementary disasters. It is good that the Government has a commission to consider this and it is good that we have joint work to do and an effective solution to these problems. On behalf of the SNS, we all thank you here for showing a high degree of responsibility, a high degree of responsibility to citizens above all, but the EU also shows, in a way, the gratitude that this government has the strength to fight all the troubles that we are given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5481	Thank you, MP Tomic. The People's MP, Suzanne Spasojevic, submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Karic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5482	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, I wanted only to intervene with this amendment in terms of extending the possibility of applying the law to the analysis of the environmental damage caused, with an analysis of environmental impacts and a recommendation for measures to reduce damages. What could have been in line with some European standards, or EU standards, is that a possible proposal for a state programme should come with this law. Perhaps we could discuss it more easily and perhaps not propose amendments that are already covered within the national programme. Anyway, the wish was to fix this law, the wish was to try to add something good to the law. It doesn't always have to be a mutual desire or to recognize that it's an improvement in the law, we think it's important, given that there have been crisis situations, that there can still be crisis environmental situations, that special attention be paid to that environmental aspect, the aspect of environmental impact, which is why this amendment is. We're here like every time we try to fix or expand amendments, and some other things, we'll look for other explanations within the next amendments. We still think as Green that this is, above all, an ecological issue, that it's a matter of ecological and climate change and that in that segment we should be looking for answers for the future. That's why this intervention of ours. No more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5483	Thank you, Mr. Karicu. The People's MP Gordana Komic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5484	Thank you. I would like to support the amendment submitted by MP Ivan Karic, because attitude 3 that he proposes to add – an analysis of the ecological situation and the resulting environmental damage with an environmental impact analysis of environmental protection and a recommendation of the damage reduction measures, all those who understand the consequences of such disasters as floods and slides, know that these two lines, this short view, means only money. But if we leave out of the programme of measures, or completely from the law that is ahead of us, if we leave out that we also have an environmental impact analysis and a measure programme, what's going on in Serbia will happen decades back. It's going to happen that we're going to rebuild the houses, we're going to rebuild the infrastructure, we're going to wait for completely clean springs, we're going to give standards and measures on the composition of the soil, on the amount of relations and application on the land, that we might even have advice from the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment on the change of cultures that requires some new land, that we're going to see where the water streams are moved. Without this, we're not gonna do anything serious without erosion repeating after a new elemental accident. Perhaps the government's will not to accept this amendment exists because it has a awareness of how much it costs to do and how much it costs to do and how much it recommends measures to reduce damage, but I want to support this amendment because it may, perhaps even this government, and certainly let it do when, and the cadasar of erotic areas and maps of streams in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and all of what for many different reasons, none of which is an excuse but many are an explanation, has not worked so far. All the data we currently have is that we have a clear picture of the dimensions of permanent damage, of temporary environmental damage in the area affected by floods and of land, and of erosions, and of the gliding point and of the movement of special water streams, and of biodiversity in that territory and we are not talking. I say I understand why the government will not accept such an amendment, but my contribution to this debate and to support the amendment of counterpart Ivan Karic is to at least remain recorded, that somewhere there is a need to spend money on this. Eighty million euros in grants and more than 850m euros in loans, which under very favourable conditions, thanks to the work the government had to present at the Donor Conference, I do not believe there will be a single euro of exactly what the amendment is talking about. It's simple, it's not natural, because I know the nature of IPA funds. What is my concern is that there will be no answer good enough in terms of administrative capacity, in terms of all the loans from IPA funds of this kind, special types for countries that negotiate, especially favourable ones. It is important for us to share information about the damaged environment in the area affected by the floods, at least this way, with the hope that there will be a detailed topic of speech on the Environment Protection Committee and hopefully also in the future budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. In the end, I can only express regret that in the Report, which is not a topic currently under investigation in particular to this Article 3, but it is a real regret that in the report on the damage to the floods, the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have a single sentence on the environment and at least on the assessment it has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5485	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Deputy Prime Minister Prof. Zorana Mihajlović reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5486	When we talk about the state programme, the government will adopt a state programme on a proposal from all resolution ministries, or the Office will propose it. Within the national programme and how the area of environmental protection will be represented. Right now, I can say that the government adopted the Report in preparation for the Donor Conference and in the part of the environmental buffer, according to the first estimates, these are the first estimates because the impact analysis will work and last longer, 32m euros is needed for now to be taken care of, at first estimate, environmental protection. In addition, the evaluation study will work for everything that is needed by the state programme and on a proposal from the restor. So, it won't stay to be done. The current Law, which I hope we will adopt, states in Article 3 paragraph 2 that an analysis of the observed situation and the resulting damages and the examination of possible further harmful consequences of the floods, etc. So within that is the obligation of all resolutions to provide clear information and a clear need in the field of environmental protection. I hope I've explained a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5487	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic's folk e-mail came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5488	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we are in the principle debate at the end, perhaps fellow Members were not present, the motions of this amendment, asked a question to the resolution minister, which covers the area and the environment, to give us answers to certain questions that you have raised on the Committee. This is good, and here I think that we should work together through the Committee and through that notice that the methodology that we went through public listening, which the Committee on Environmental Protection had on June 5th, on the assessment of the damage to the environment area, really needs in some way from these assembly benches to run through the resolution ministry. They should actually be the bearers of certain proposals. On the one hand, it's good, and on the other hand, the overall environmental impact assessment is one document that certainly takes a long time and takes some time and money and for the part that we need now in this part of the law, which is efficiency, to finish these houses as soon as possible and to get people to move in. I don't think in this part of it this amendment may have been adopted. What is certainly good is that the minister has now announced, which is practically the president of this damage recovery commission, that these analyses will be done and that certain funds from European funds are certainly already defined. What I think is our mission here is to permanently influence the work of the Ministry, to do a part of the work that you have put forward. I think that's a good thing, and we're sure to support it through the Committee. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5489	Thank you. The People's MP Dr Branislav Blazic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5490	The Honorable Minister, the Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this amendment, I will support the idea and recommendation. Whether the amendment will be accepted or it can be considered that the law has already covered it, that is quite a side issue. I'm glad the Minister said that environmental impact will be taken into account, because we had a situation yesterday that the report on ecosystems and damages, which is one ecological disaster in those areas, is not mentioned in any word at all. The environment is not mentioned in the report as if it didn't exist, as if it had happened to someone else and it's very difficult to talk. I, for example, did not participate in this debate because from the position of the position it is difficult to criticise such a single report. It's not good, it's not even healthy, and I can't even boast again for principled reasons, and then it's best to shut up and pretend dead. Believe me, what happens and what happens there has huge consequences and the price is huge. We were doing a public hearing on the methodology of environmental impact assessment since the flood and we have a report on page 19. We did yesterday and conclusions on the board and it would be good if someone took it. I think that text and those opinions of very high-quality people who participated in this debate will help him greatly, both to the government and to this commission that will work on it. The board made one decision yesterday, that they would monitor that monitoring and everything that was going on because we couldn't just leave it on those papers. Believe that in this area that has 11 municipalities and where the Kalenić dump is to be done, which for years is not working and we don't know why, that it is made, and that is also Obrenovac, Lazarec, Mininica, Ljig, Ub, the damage would be a few million euros smaller and could not happen to swim so many bottles of plastics. We have more plastic bottles on Serbian rivers than anyone in the markets. It couldn't have happened that because of these huge bottles and floating dead animals, the stoves and all over the rivers, they come and we're being torn down by bridges and there's not much more that could've happened if we'd just shown ourselves to organize and consciousness and care and to show how expensive it really is if we didn't worry about that environment and how much it's coming back to us. It has returned to us fiercely and will return to us again if we do not show enough sense and if we consider this moment – no, we will not invest, which is expensive for us. The results and what is seen as an effect in the environment do not come overnight. You know, the house crashes, so you build up and you have it again and you see it. You can't see that in the environment, and we're like a people in some mental setting to react only to what we see and even more to what hurts us. If something doesn't hurt, it doesn't seem to exist. If we don't see it, too. I think there might be some awareness of a vision of something we need to do is more important and important to us. I have no doubt at all that this government will not fulfill what it has promised. She'll build the infrastructure, fix all that, we'll do it. As far as the environment is concerned, we will certainly do so because the Committee will follow it day and night and not only that, but also what is happening in the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5491	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Prof. Zorana Mihajlović reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5492	Let me get this straight. Several times it was heard in the principle debate, and today, there was no information in the report on the assessment of the damage. Yeah, the report didn't treat the damage assessment, because the report and the title are very clear, so we need to read it one more time. So, the report explains and shows how it is handled at the time of the ministry's emergency situation, and in that report you can't see from any ministry's assessment of the damage. The damage assessment is done after that. At the invitation of the Commission, local self-governments carried out a damage assessment, then, according to a methodology established, as I said five, six minutes ago, the government adopted a report in front of the donor conference, according to the methodology established, according to the resolutions, so as to assess the damage to the portfolios where, among other things, the environmental buffer and estimated the necessary funds, according to this first assessment, how necessary it is to address the consequences of the elemental flood disaster, and in the area of environmental protection. So, in the report you mention, first, there is no information in that report on the assessment of the damage to any portfolio, because the report does not treat it. The report treats the ministry's behaviour at times of emergency we've had. Far from putting this portfolio aside and resolving the issue, for example, road infrastructures, without resolving the issue of environmental protection as a consequence of the elemental flood disaster in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5493	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The People's MP Marijan Risticevic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5494	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, Your Honor, I have carefully read this amendment, and I am prepared to vote for it, but under certain conditions. So, if the amendment promoter still thinks it's worth importing various wastes for processing, if he thinks it's necessary to import old tyres to process them here and pay for the money of Serbian taxpayers, so that some foreign tyres imported into Serbia can be processed, if he thinks it's worth doing, I might be willing to support it. If he thinks that adopting this amendment can make new dumps on the slides, spend 25m euros, and now we have a problem with resuscitating the dump that was built on the slide, we now have to pay for the rehabilitation of the sanitary dump. So instead of being built in a place where there's no slides, we're going to have to pay for it now, since someone recklessly on the slide made a sanitary dump called Deep. If, under environmental protection, we think we're importing old batteries and subsidising money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, I might be a little lenient on the amendment's proposal. If we think that because of the imports of these batteries, we're going to make waterfalls in India, and that's on a regional waterfall, a recycling plant for second-hand batteries, that waste water goes behind the factory into a bond canal, which is above the regional water supply, where more than one municipality uses drinking water, so, if it means, under the circumstances, I'd be willing to accept that amendment. If someone thinks of "Energogreen" in India, if someone thinks about this project to be worth supporting this amendment, maybe I would support it if it wasn't a threat to the lawsuit and we won't pay the Energogreen project expensively because someone signed something that shouldn't have signed and, as far as I know, we'll be sued in Strasbourg. I would like those who have allowed this project to be built 1.5, two kilometers from the settlement of Novi Karlovac, where I live to live, to live with their families at the end of the New Karlovacs and to prove to us that it is ecologically safe. If we were to call the whole project - clean Serbia and give one Kraut newspaper 50, 60, 70 million dinars if they were just writing about it and reporting, I might be moved and worried about the troubles of a party that once ruled, I might support this amendment. Even if instead of money, we start to invest money in the oaks of the ponds, right where we're going to give in, and we don't put in a dinar, and we put in the oaks a million and 400,000 dinars just for the treatment of a oak, if we did it like we did before, maybe I'd be lenient on the proposer for some emotional reasons, if their grief for the lost elections was easier, I might vote for such an amendment, but common sense says it can't be accepted. In my view, it is a little incorrect to propose this amendment when we know how it used to take care of the environment in the Republic of Serbia. If they think I'm voting for the amendment, they must ask Mr. Dulic to come back and implement all those programs I've just listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5495	According to the amendment, the People's MP, Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5496	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, dear Madam Minister, I felt the need to report for two reasons. First, I want to support my colleague Karic's amendment. Secondly, let's try to get this whole discussion back into the contexts of today's topic and not spread with the grades we've just heard on various subjects. I don't see any reason to talk like this and cause tension.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5497	Mrs. Lazic, I respect you very much. Everyone has the right to explain in their own way why some amendment accepts or does not accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5498	I'm talking about the facts that came out here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5499	I listened very carefully to the previous speaker. He talked all the time about the amendment, in his own words, but he talked about the amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5500	Thank you. The Government has submitted Article 3. He deals with the state's reconstruction program. In particular, it states: 1) the area in which the measures and the territory on which the measures are being carried out, 2) the analysis of the state-owned situation and the resulting damages and the possible further adverse consequences of the flood, i.e. the facts of the slide, 3) the measures to be taken for the purpose of the recovery, i.e. the recovery of the consequences of the flood, i.e. the facts of the slide, 4) the manner and scope of the implementation of the measures, 5) the order of implementation of the measures, 6) the deadlines for the implementation of the measures, 7) the authorities of the State Administration responsible for the coordination, i.e. the holders of the implementation of certain measures and activities, 8) the assessment of the necessary financial resources and sources of financing, 9) the use of the Republic's trade reserves and 10) other necessary elements. The State Renewal Programme may provide that, temporarily, in the area affected by the flood from the funds set out in Article 5, this is the order of implementation of the measures, item 1 point 1), point (4), point (10) and point (10) of this Act, will finance both individual rights and services financed under the general rules by the units of local self-government budget. State renewal programmes shall be developed on the basis of reports and findings by the authorities of the state administration, expert opinions, other bodies and services of public undertakings and other entities, as well as reports and proposals by the competent authorities of local self-government units. We have proposed, and Ms. Minister and Government have accepted, that the last position is – the state-run reconstruction programme can foresee that, temporarily, in the area affected by the floods from the funds set out in Article 5(1), point 4), point 8 and point 10 of this law, the funding of both individual rights and services, is added: "whose exercise, or provision, is of importance for the implementation of the reconstruction programme that the units of local self-government bring." We felt that the proposed amendment was to specify which rights and services could be financed from the means to eliminate the effects of the flood, preventing abuse and preventing potentially corrupt behaviour, while also ensuring more effective monitoring of the use of funds. We are extremely pleased that we had the same attitude and opinion as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5501	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5502	This amendment is proof of our commitment to make the law as good as possible and to make the reconstruction that is being realized has no ability to convert, or purchases under this procedure to be converted into procurement for those needs that have nothing to do with the restoration. In fact, there was the possibility that in the municipalities affected by the floods, procurements were made under the Law on Public Procurement under this law as regards the removal of the effects of floods and that some of the jobs in this law were included just because they were in the municipalities in which the floods occurred. With our amendment, which was accepted by the Government, we narrowed down the possibility of abuse and the possibility of someone making public procurement under the flood law, and that it had nothing to do with the floods. I hope that when the government wrote the law, or the legislator had no bad intentions and that this acceptance of the amendment was a sign that they saw the error they made, but this is also proof of how many oppositions, I mean, first of all, the NDS, the ZZS and Green Serbia, made to fix this law and made our contribution to removing the effects of the flood. Instead, unfortunately, from the parties of the ruling coalition, we get a salvah of insults that are not dignified in this home. We believe that the government and the minister should have accepted some more of our amendments. We think this is a good sign, but not enough for this law to be of any quality. In order for it to be a law that will be passed with the aim of ending this flood situation in the next 60 days, we have no impression that it can do so under this law, and certainly, according to what the government does, but promises, nothing is happening in the field. That's why we suspect, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, that you'll be finishing this job by autumn. We hold you to your word, and we would like you to be right and as part of the ruling coalition to fulfil at least one obligation that you have given to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5503	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5504	Of the 32 amendments proposed, six were adopted. For the sake of truth, when we talk about this position, or this amendment that you have proposed, that position of Article 3, without what you have suggested, gave the Government the right to work directly through a government programme in a particular local self-government, helps that local self-government for those rights that would be natural and determined to do so from the budget of the local self-government unit. Your amendment, which we put here, made it possible for what I just said to be plus that local self-government would agree with the state's programme to act directly, even though local self-government should finance it from the budget. I don't know where you found that from this attitude, from this amendment, the Public Procurement Act would be violated, perhaps not respected. I didn't understand that with your amendment, or this part here, which we added to this position, which we're treating, I'm going to repeat, the possibility that the state would directly help the local self-government with the state's programme, and the rights that should be financed by local self-government, which means that you improved by not being, you doubted, respected the Public Procurement Act. Whatever. We accepted the amendment. Why not add that local self-government should agree, and whether the government will honor its promises, this government respects its promise. Among other things, we're passing this law that needs to speed up procedures for people who have lost their homes, those houses have to have... The road and railway infrastructure will be rehabilitated by October 1st. What we promised, that's what we'll do. What remains and will not be able to arrive, to be done by autumn is energy, and everything else will be solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5505	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5506	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5507	You have no right to a replica. You can only speak by amendment. Mrs. Mihajlovic made an effort to explain what you asked, she gave the necessary answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5508	Mrs. Mihajlovic said she did not see how this amendment, let me simplify, removes corruption. It is removed by saying for which purposes these funds can be used. It is said – whose performance, i.e. the provision, is of importance for the implementation of the reconstruction programme, which brings the unit of local self-government. The emphasis, therefore, is on "the importance of implementing the reconstruction programme" so that this could not apply to some other programmes that have nothing to do with the reconstruction programme. It's important to us. If you think it doesn't matter in this part, we have submitted that amendment with that goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5509	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5510	The attitude begins with a state-run reconstruction program. So, is there anything that could be in the state's reconstruction program that isn't about rebuilding and this law? I don't think so. Maybe there used to be. Maybe someone did it differently, but when we did it, we meant for what it says in the law, and that's why we passed the law, that's why. I hope we get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5511	Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5512	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, our amendment, in relation to Article 4, refers to the fact that Article 4 does not state, in accordance with Article 35 of the single methodological rules for the making of rules, that the designation of the Office for the Aid and Reconstruction of Flooded Areas will be used in the following text by the Office, which is done in the next members of this proposed law. In this regard, we proposed that the following words in Article 4(1): “Help and Reconstruction Office for Flooded Areas” are added: “(hereinafter referred to as the Office)” and “Office for Aid and Reconstruction of Flood Areas” are replaced by the word “Office” in the corresponding decline. The point was to follow the methodological text and tags we use, i.e. nouns in this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5513	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic together submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5514	The Honorable President-in-Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, I think that according to this amendment, there is only one specific question – who and whether Barajevo, as a city municipality, is in the state programme in this law? To whom the inhabitants of Barajev, i.e. The citizens of Barajev who were damaged, who appeared to me today during the day, can turn around because they say there's no such thing as the city's Barajevo municipality formed headquarters to which they can turn? Can they turn directly to the office? That's why I'm reporting for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5515	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5516	No matter what's not related to the amendment. Of course the Office or the Commission or the Ministry can do it, everyone. If I have to, I can.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5517	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5518	Thank you. I think it's good that the three of us have submitted the amendment and that the government has accepted. When I want to define what the good work of the Assembly looks like, then this is a good example, whether we accept it or not, but that we understand that we're dealing with the subject, whether we're government or opposition, and that we're making use of it again, whether we're power or opposition. Our amendment reads that charges and fees for the services of the Republic, the regional authorities and the authorities of the local self-government units are not paid on the basis of submissions, shops and the issuing of documents in accordance with this law. In light of the fact that Article 5 deals with sources of funds, the minister already stressed in principle that the amendment would be accepted. I thank you, not as much as on your personal behalf or colleagues Balša Bozovic and Borislav Stefanovic, but in the name of what the process will go clearly and what we will save 10, 50, 100 million dinars for people who will need all these papers and documentation on the renewal for which the funds will be provided by the Office and through the state programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5519	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Ivan Karic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5520	Thank you. With this amendment, I intended to draw a little more attention to the problem that arose after the flood, and I predicted that the Government of the Republic of Serbia set up a fund for solidarity and development. The fund's income is a tax on financial transactions in the territory of the city of Belgrade. With this, we wanted to make it known to both citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to further tax transactions on the territory of the city of Belgrade. Since something similar was in the form of a parliamentary issue, I also received a reply from Minister Vujovic, who assessed this initiative as positive, but said several ministries should participate in the creation of such a fund. A similar answer was received from the finance minister, i.e. from the cabinet of the Minister of Finance. Mostly this government has been answering all parliamentary questions in the last few months, it was just a practice of the Deputy Prime Minister in the last term when she was very zealously answering all the questions of the MPs, at least when it comes to me. I think it's important that we think about the solidarity and development fund, that it's a chance for businessmen and farmers who might be able to find a chance to develop again, because many have had nothing left after the flood. All capital was invested in the business, perhaps this could be an initiative to think about helping businesses, farmers, citizens and citizens, given that this was assessed by different ministries as a potentially good initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5521	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5522	I believe that you saw the explanation and that you saw that there is no such tax in the tax system of Serbia first, and secondly, that would mean that we should change the law. Nevertheless, this is a question for the finance minister, especially for the fact that an additional tax would be introduced in this way. It's something to think about in the future, but if you ask me for advice I think there's a Development Fund, I think there's ways to deal with it, but I'm saying it's not my portfolio. That's the Secretary of Finance's portfolio and we'll pass this on to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5523	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5524	Dear Chairman, I must confess just before a colleague who said this that someone gave him a positive assessment of an idea like this, I would like to see this finance minister or the economy who gave a positive assessment of something like this, because this is something that is impossible and no wonder that the amendment is not in line with the Constitution. We in Belgrade have some big taxes, and we don't know what we're not paying anymore because some previous furniture here left us with everything and everything and an abnormal administration, and now there's a tax being introduced for all of Serbia, but to be paid exclusively by the citizens of Belgrade through financial transactions in the city itself. It's totally unacceptable, and we also need to know that we know the basic fact, which is that every tax has to be introduced through the law, not in this way. Maybe this idea is nice and good, but something like this is really unacceptable, and I have to admit, sometimes I'm surprised at the amount of ideas like this. I don't think this should have even been discussed since it didn't comply with the constitutional system, but simply to tell the citizens what someone wanted. Something like this is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5525	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. I would like to ask the service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for cards for the application of MPs who are now not present in the hall to take over. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5526	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister, fellow MPs, has proved to be neither in line with the law nor feasible. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I want to point out that a good and human idea has appeared in public. The Association of Businessmen in the Municipality of Stara Paz has made its own fund from which, together with the Office for the Elimination of Flood damage, a certain number of houses will be built. I don't know if the Minister said it, but here's the chance to do it again. Such ideas have shown that there is still a kind of solidarity in this Serbia, that the state does not always have to encourage its citizens to solidarity, that there are people, businessmen, that there are human citizens who will, in this way, co-operate with the state on very important tasks such as building houses of those who lost everything in one day. It is very important that there are some ideas that are feasible, which do not have to be legally prescribed and that do not have to be a proposal for certain amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5527	The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5528	Article 27, though, could concern a member who touches the dignity of the National Assembly. Your Honor, you just called Mr. Milvan Dracun to speak. Milovan Dracun isn't in the O.R. That means someone pressed his key with his card, but that means his card was in the system. That means that what I pointed out yesterday happened again today. The chairman, you acted adequately, but the breach of the Rules of Procedure happened before that, which we didn't know about. This is a serious abuse, this is a violation of the rights and obligations of the MPs by Mr Drecun. I think this is why you should give him a warning. When I took my word, I wouldn't pick up later. I'd only ask the minister, which minister of finance would Mr. Karic speak? Do you know something we don't know, did we choose a new finance minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5529	Thank you. The notice shall be made to the MP in accordance with Article 109 where I cannot find one such violation of the Rules of Procedure. Our Rules of Procedure provides for the exclusion from the work of the Assembly session if one of the MPs abuses the voting card when voting, and I can't assume now whether Mr Drecun may have activated his electronic unit, went out and forgot to take the card and log out. So I think I acted on time when I noticed a certain irregularity. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (No) The word has a vice-president in the government, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5530	Dear and dear MP, do you really think the Serbian government can function one day without the resolution ministers? So, the moment you found out, and you found in this parliament the resignation of Finance Minister Lazar Krstic, the government before that, that is, when he did so in the government, appointed the Minister of Economy to carry out under the authority of the prime minister of finance's affairs. It's a common practice. It's not our first time. Therefore, he does the affairs of the finance minister. Nothing stands, everything works by the authority of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5531	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić together submitted the 6th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5532	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, our amendment refers to Article 6 which speaks about how funds are used and the member says: "the funds of Article 5 of this Law are used by the scope, dynamics and for the purposes of establishing programmes for reconstruction", that is in the first position. In the second, ‘help is granted to end-users in money, goods, works, goods and services’ and in the third term ‘aiding criteria, as well as the type and height of assistance, determines the Government by means of a state programme of reconstruction’, and we suggest that it be added – by managing the type and extent of damage caused by floods, i.e. the activation of the slide. The amendment lays down the principle that the Government should be governed by in determining the criteria for granting aid, i.e. when determining the type and height of aid, in order to provide rational and fair allocations of available resources. I think accepting this amendment would fix this member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5533	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5534	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that this amendment should be accepted, given that the government's powers would be narrowed down and, in a certain way, already prescribed by law by species, etc. The damage, in a certain way specificized the way in which the aid was provided in removing the damage. The damage was diverse. It is very difficult for certain regions to identify type species etc. and determine how this assistance would go unless freedom was determined by the Government, given that in different regions there were various damages. There was damage on the chicken farm somewhere, there was damage on the lamb farm somewhere, there was damage in the stables, there was damage on individual small farms, there was a huge damage on the crops, and there was no damage elsewhere, there was damage on residential buildings, there were buildings, and somewhere there was damage on individual houses, there was damage on houses that had a building permit, there was damage on houses that didn't have a building permit, there was damage on houses that were built in the river bed, somewhere it wasn't. Therefore, any type of specification in providing assistance in the removal of disasters would in a certain way hinder the government, which is why the Government also predicted that the programme would determine the way in which it would carry out the removal of the damage. The greatest damage, of course, is in agriculture and energy, and energy is special. I'm afraid the Minister misunderstood me last time, so this time I'm going to repeat that question. I appealed to the coal now produced by electricity, dried coal, to divide that coal into the population immediately, and to import electricity to that place, given that it is now cheaper than it will be in winter, because it will prevent us from being able to do the job of the Minister of Energy at the end of October and November, so you can pass it on to the current Minister of Energy, if we don't share coal, they will all attach to our electricity. Our system can introduce electricity, we can buy electricity as much as we want, but we can't transport it to the consumer, that's one thing. Secondly, when they plug in to us, they're probably not going to pay for that electricity anymore, because it's a very poor population. Transport systems, or our system, can't handle it, and there's a lot of trouble. What is also significant, this current that we are now importing in winter will be 50% to 100% more expensive, i.e. now 40 euros megawatt hour, and winter will be 60 and 80 euros. Just to be clear, that's about what I've talked to the experts about and what they've recommended, that at the moment when coal is not on board to transport it to the users, to a poorer layer of citizens, and that what we lack is the current current we import. They say it'll be cheaper and we'll stop the system from overloading. If I was imprecise somewhere, correct me, but the flow of their recommendation is about, I have learned it from them. It also seems rational to me, since last time we weren't exactly the most accurate, I wanted to do it again, and that has something to do with this amendment. So, the government needs to get rid of its hands so it doesn't have to act, that it can act, because the damage is diverse, that the regions are diverse, that it can act in a way that removes all the damage as quickly as possible, and that it doesn't have to be strictly bound by law to respect species, size, etc., but that it can do so with its programme, and that it can change it in good time, because very short deadlines and every legal restriction would be very devastating. I understand the proposal's intention and that some of the times are different and that there is more time to rebuild the houses and remove the damage, I would vote for it, but given that the time is very short and that the Government should be given that as quickly as possible to change its instruments and tools in this recovery of damage, I don't think we can accept this amendment right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5535	Thank you. Mr. Bradich, you asked for a word. There's no basis for replication. You've got one minute left as an applicant for the amendment, and in over a minute, I'm going to have to deny you the time foreseen for the MP's group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5536	Thank you. I think my colleague and I think the same thing, that we didn't understand each other. I say we determine the principles that the government needs to run without narrowing down their operationality. Says the sentence where we say - by handling the species and the extent of the damage caused by the flood, i.e. the activation of the slide. I don't know what other cause was except for the floods and the slides, right? In fact, it's legitimately right, you suggest, you vote. It's my opinion and my MPs' group to get this fixed by a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5537	The word has the vice-president of the government and the minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5538	Let me explain why your amendment is being rejected. It is that Article 3 has already defined exactly what is in the government's adoption programme. So we felt there was no need for him to be in Article 6. That's the basic reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5539	Mr. Risticevic, after the amendment again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5540	I still feel the opposite, since we say, we're handling a species. For example, I have a kind of damage to the agricultural crops. So that's my main damage, and if the government starts the agricultural crops to work first, then it loses those other priorities they have somewhere, which is energy, first damage. So, I still think the government should be left with the law of opportunity, freed hands that can act from field to field, and in different ways. So if we take that kind of damage that gives us some advantages, then we have some problems. So, I think at this point, in such short time, regardless of the good intentions of the promoter, we should not accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5541	Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5542	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, article 10 deals with the office's report on financial and non-financial assistance received by other public funds users. Our proposal is not to read the whole article, it refers to the 4th position that we propose to change and read: “The aid to eliminate the consequences of the affected floods received in terms of money donations, donations or gifts is recorded and expressed in money according to market value.” We propose adding a new position 5, which reads as follows: "The market value of the aid referred to in Article 4 is expressed in cash in the contract or decision, and if the contract or decision does not express the market value, it shall be assessed by the office". The decision given in the draft law is not clear and precise enough for us, since it is not possible to determine with certainty what a comparative review of the prices on the market, nor what criteria are used at that time. The proposed amendment lays down more precisely the way in which the market value of non-financial aid is to be determined, where, starting with legal powers and the part-time work of the office, it is to be given jurisdiction to assess the market value when they are not expressed in contracts or decisions. We think that accepting this amendment will facilitate the work of the office and all those people involved in recording this kind of assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5543	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5544	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, as well as some previous amendments, and this amendment was a desire to increase transparency and to in some way draw closer to some EU values, to perhaps help make the funds easier, faster and easier to get, and to see that there may be clearer defined mechanisms for control. I think I'm getting a pretty clear explanation. There's no DRI control excluded and, let me say, it's an acceptable explanation -- it was just a desire to increase transparency. As with some previous amendments, we've introduced the environment, so that we might increase the space to act, that the help that we might possibly get is faster and better, and that we show our willingness as a state to open up all the control channels or channels in which we spend our resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5545	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5546	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, Article 12 deals with public procurement procedures and I think it's one of the most important parts of this law. I'll read Article 12. ‘The procurement of goods and works necessary for the removal of consequences in the area affected by floods shall be subject to the open procedure prescribed by the provisions of Article 32. Public procurement laws. The procurement referred to in Article 1 shall be determined by a state programme of renewal. The procurement referred to in Article 1(1) shall be carried out by the Office and may be carried out by other public funds users through a specific state programme of renewal, with the right of the Office representative to participate as a member of the Public Procurement Commission. The public procurement procedures referred to in Article 1 shall not apply to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act relating to the procurement plan, the prior notification, and that is understandable and that is a good proposal for a solution, after which, a way of proving mandatory and additional conditions for participation in the procurement procedure, deadlines for submission of tenders and deadlines for the decision of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. “ This article is well arranged and I think it can facilitate the work of the office, but we think that this part: ‘the way in which we prove mandatory and additional conditions for participation in the procurement process’ should be deleted from the member, for the simple reason that we are disabling the procurement process ourselves and we are needlessly opening up suspicions of possible irregularities in the procurement process. One of the basic conditions of competition and public procurement is compliance. I don't see why it's being put on and why our member of the public procurement is being rejected, which predicts that this is being kicked out of this article, when all those who will participate in the restoration, in the construction of any segment destroyed by these floods and slides are reference houses, because others cannot carry out such large jobs and have all the documentation necessary for public procurement. With this we open up suspicions and build a burden on the office that should work effectively and cast doubt before the start of business that someone will do something wrong, although I doubt anyone has such an idea in their subconscious, but I think we should throw out this sentence, because those who compete and go to public procurement that size, they have both operational and complete documentation and complete people, and there's no need to put this into a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5547	Fifty seconds from the time foreseen for the parliamentary group. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5548	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I think it would be good for you to accept this amendment to our parliamentary group, for the basic reason that it removes the possibility of any volunteer interpretation of this law, because in some ways it is left to believe that someone who participates in the process meets the conditions. We know that this has never been effective in Serbia and that it has been relatively easy to make a promise, and to keep it difficult, as your government shows. What is particularly an argument for the need to identify these data as accurately as possible is the fact that the procedure will be conducted by the Office for Reconstruction, and Mr Blagojevic is headed by the office. We don't even know if he's a graduate lawyer. The question is whether he will manage to enforce this law. I don't know if you've ever learned anything about his biography in the meantime, whether or not Mr. Blagojevic delivered it to you. I've received some additional information...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5549	Please talk about the amendment. What does Mr. Blagojevic have to do with the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5550	... That he likes to listen to Michael Crichton, except AC/DC, John Grisham and some other performers. I don't know if that'll be enough for him...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5551	You have 20 seconds left to bring your discussion to the amendment. I really don't understand what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5552	So, it's the chairmanship of the law that exists...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5553	No, in this case, it's about the amendment you submitted to Article 12. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5554	That's right. And it's gonna be hard to run it by this office director, because the law is quite imprecise, and that's why we have the suspicion that the existing director who was elected before this law, by the law, will not be able to do it, and that's the only reason why we think it's an additional argument to accept this amendment. We ask the Minister, given the biography of Mr Blagojevic to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5555	Three minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a vice-president and minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5556	Regarding your amendment, which you have proposed, since we have put the law before the MPs and in the Serbian Parliament right now to speed up the procedures that are awaiting us and to complete, as soon as possible, everything we have to do before autumn. Among other things, one of the things we want to speed up is the public procurement process. What you are looking for would really only slow down public procurement, but also immediately in Article 13 and you know very well that it is asked by the applicant whose offerer under full material and criminal responsibility confirms that he meets the conditions. Just one moment, now, and if we were to look at the Public Procurement Act and see what it takes that you're now looking for to deliver it within 10 days, I think we all know it wouldn't be possible. Therefore, it makes a statement under the full material criminal responsibility that it is so, and I will tell you what all tenderers should deliver in the public procurement procedure according to the amendment that you are asking for: copies of the register of competent authorities, confirmations of the competent court, confirmations of the competent court or competent authority for the registration of economic operators, confirmation of the competent tax authority or the organisation of the mandatory social or certification of the competent authority that the tenderer is located in the privatisation process, valid authorisations for the performance of the relevant activity, issued by the competent authority, etc. I don't want to read all that now. It's absolutely impossible or very difficult to arrange in ten days, which is why we put behind it Article 13 where we are looking for it, as we predicted afterwards, we'll probably talk about it, to the Republic Commission for the Protection of the right of the bidders, that it must respond to any objections that may occur from other bidders.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5557	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, on what basis are you answering? By amendment. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5558	I'm gonna use time per amendment, though I wanted to get to the bottom of it. Indeed, Deputy Prime Minister, you've said the essence now. Indeed this is the reality of Serbia. It is indeed a fact that he would be obliged to obtain ten documents from some of them you listed, but you know how long it would take him to get it that we're an orderly state. One half hour, because all the documents you listed were issued by the state. So these are documents that are official documents. Confirmation that he's registered in the court register, APR? Confirmation that he reconciled tax obligations, tax administration. There's our problem, and that's why investors don't come to us, not because workers are being prepaid, but because anyone normal wants to work has stopped the administration from going on the road. I'm saying you created that administration. You only strengthened it, and you said that you would enable more efficient, faster, better investment of foreign investors. No, they came from two billion on an annual basis to 200 million this year, precisely because of these papers, because no one in that forest can manage, and no one in the normal world will be able to manage when they can get into a country that's better arranged. There's a problem with your government and your SNS that you've made a promise, and you're not. This is just an example of what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5559	Thank you. You've spent your time with the parliamentary groups, and you've got 11 and a half minutes left. The word is from the peoples of MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5560	You know how, it's good when someone sees their own mistakes, because this amazing administration is grown as weeds, and such bureaucracy has been developed in a period when Mr. Vesenovic somehow represented power. But this amendment, I would really agree to be accepted if the situation wasn't the way it is. And the situation is just like that, we have to act quickly. I'm really a little surprised that in the next amendment, let's say for Article 13, you're asking to be deleted, although I have to put one in there, because Article 13 says it can prove itself, and it should be without that, because it has to get that documentation, and it can't. However, I don't understand why someone is asking to delete a member for a method of proof of participation in a public procurement process, and on the other hand, it requires us to conduct such bureaucracy in a situation where people really need to build houses as soon as possible and build roads. I especially don't understand why Mr. Blagojevic's mistrust when he was so trusted in election results, election assessments all these years. It's really unclear to me now how so much mistrust towards one man who's been given so much trust all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5561	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5562	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as regards Mr. Janko Veselinovic's argument, would remind him that he and his party had represented the state until yesterday and that DS and in all its aggregate states no one had prevented the state from office since 2000 in a way that all authorities of the state administration function much more effectively than that. What I would like to remind the gentlemen who are criticising the Government of the Republic of Serbia today and whose main argument is why they will not vote for this law music listened to by Mr Marko Blagojevic, which is absolutely pointless. The essential reason why investors are driven from this country is that the government has done everything the opposite by 2012 instead of building a legal system and fostering the traditions of the rule of law. We talked a few days ago that caused considerable anxiety in the opposition's ranks of numerous affairs whose protagonists were present or former DS officials. Here's just for the public one small contribution to the continuation of these affairs. Mr. Janko Veselinović was, in his time, a great advocate for the formation of TESLA SECURE BANKA in Croatia. The bank was granted a license for the work of the Croatian National Bank on 11 May 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5563	Please, Mr. Martinovic, these are the details you are now presenting, and according to the Rules of Procedure it is unacceptable to present the facts of private life. If he was what he was doing as a public official.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5564	No, these are the facts of public life.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5565	It is not the public life of the establishment of a bank in Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5566	Yes, but if you'll excuse me, I'll explain in a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5567	No, perhaps in Croatia but not in Serbia. Please coordinate your discussion with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5568	I'll explain now. So why are these public facts rather than private because Tesla Bank's major shareholder in Croatia is the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. You'll agree that it's not a private institution, but a public one that initially played 76% of the stakes in that bank. In addition, shareholders were, among other things, other companies from Croatia, "Star" d.d. Zagreb, “Končar”, “Electroindustria” d.d. Zagreb, “Sladorana” d.d. The mayor. What's the problem? The problem is that Tesla bank in Croatia served as money laundering, obviously for the DS account and for the financing of their election campaign. If that were the case, the fact that one of the members of Tesla's supervisory board was Mrs Biljana Jovanovic... (National MP Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Why do you allow this, what does this have to do with it? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5569	Please, Mr. Martinovic, talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5570	... . I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5571	What does public procurement and this law have to do with your discussion? (National MP Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Please, Chairman to react)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5572	Because those who criticise the government of the Republic of Serbia that they will, allegedly through this office and through Mr. Mark Blagojevic something to hide from the public, actually did. Now they're trying to transfer it to the government of the Republic of Serbia and I'm trying to prove that's not the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5573	And I'm trying to convince you to talk about the amendment. This has nothing to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5574	I'm talking about the amendment. So, one of the members of the Tesla Supervisory Board was Mrs Biljana Jovanovic, who was, behold, a miracle, and the chairman of the Vojvodina Development Bank's credit committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5575	Mr. Martinovic, your discussion might be fine in some other way, but I am asking you not to turn off the microphone or return to the amendment or I will be forced to follow the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5576	I didn't hear what you were going to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5577	Well, you're either gonna talk about the agenda or I'm gonna turn off the microphone, or I'm gonna give you a heads-up. I don't see how else to react. Or ask yourself a different question – how would you do if you were me? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5578	Well, here, Mr. Arsic, it wouldn't be the first time in my life for the chairman to give me a warning. During the session of the National Assembly chaired by Mrs Gordana Komic, I paid one 3,500 euros on behalf of the sentence for the warned.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5579	Believe me, I paid the fine. So I know, and that sentence was given to me as president of the largest parliamentary group to support the government of the Republic of Serbia. So I totally understand, but don't make me do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5580	I am trying as hard as I can to support the government of the Republic of Serbia and defend it against unfounded attacks, those who have done these things. Why am I saying this? I simply remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this government of the Republic of Serbia is not responsible for the difficult economic situation in which Serbia is located. In such a difficult economic situation, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, despite all the problems it has faced, this is just a drop in the sea, an affair, a drop in the sea of malfeasance and abuses that the Republic of Serbia has been exposed to since 2000...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5581	I beg you again, Mr. Martinovic, to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5582	... where, within a record short period of time, it proposed to the National Assembly a law that would allow the country to be restored within the next year. What are the arguments against this law? (National MP Janko Veselinović, from the post: Seven minutes speaks outside of the Rules of Procedure. What music...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5583	I ask the People's Messengers to settle down. Mr. Martinovic, finish your discussion, bring the end, please, in accordance with the tabled amendment and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5584	I don't understand, Mr. Arsic, why all this anxiety in the ranks of the opposition, I really don't see any reason. I don't insult anyone personally, and I don't call anyone, but I do present the facts, but if you have a basic reason not to vote for this law, that you are reading from some site that is being heard by Marko Blagojevic, I'm sorry, it's mildly irresponsible to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the same citizens whose rights you're supposed to be behind, the same citizens you're saying we can't go before them, and we came out before them on 16 March and they told us about us and about them all and who they are, and how they judge whose work they are. So, those who are reportedly representing themselves as protectors of the interest of citizens today have done things like this, and we say – it is completely irrelevant what music Marko Blagojevic listens to, it is totally irrelevant whether he is a lawyer or not. (National MP Janko Veselinović, from the post: Eight minutes speaks outside of the Rules of Procedure. ) What is important is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the help of, I can say freely, the SNS parliamentary groups, will do everything possible to restore the country in the next year. We'll rebuild the country. But what will be a much bigger problem and what we will need much more time for, I hope that Mr. Arsic agrees with me, is to recover the country from all those corruption affairs, from all those abuses that Serbia was exposed to from 2000 to 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5585	Mr. Martinovic, here's the deal. I must tell you that even though I agree with your allegations, next time I will not tolerate you coming out of the framework of the amendment submitted to Article 12. The first reported to Borislav Stefanovic for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5586	Without any desire to enter the polemics, Member of the 6th Chairman, as you well know, I absolutely do not want to go into the contentual sense of what my colleague was saying, but what is an inconclusive fact is that, as – seven minutes, eight minutes, continuously infringing the Rules of Procedure despite your four oral warnings, to return to the topic, he continued and the man told the rest of what he wanted. So by breaking Article 106, you did so by letting him say all the way to the end what he wanted even though you were verbally trying to get him back on the subject, but you absolutely had to give him a warning. Absolutely, and now that someone on this side does something like that, they wouldn't make it to the first corner. I'm sure of it. I'm sure he wouldn't have made it. Then you say to the college, you're all the same. Well, we're not the same. Here's proof we're not the same. That you have now given Mr. Martinovic a warning, as he deserves, because he deals with the prosecution and prosecution work, in the Serbian Parliament, of course without any evidence, I understand the most recent member of the SNS in the Assembly, but you have to react. You cannot allow a man, obviously by mission and by instruction, to want us all back, according to Radulovic, in the mud, to discuss with each other who did what, what year. The amendment stands and weeps because it waits for this government to do something in these areas. He's waiting for the amendment to adopt him or turn him down, so you can show him what you're like. No, it is now a theme of what Janko Veselinović is and whether Janko Veselinović is. I know we're all criminals in the eyes of some of you, but at least try to behave humanly, not because of the opposition, but because of the people who watch this and expect us to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5587	Mr. Stefanovic, before Mr. Martinovic, was told by his colleague Janko Vesenovic, and about the amendment that reads - that in Article 12 paragraph 4 – "the way of proof and mandatory and additional conditions for participation in public procurement procedures", he deleted, so we came to what kind of music Mr. Blagojevic listens, hevi metal group was also mentioned "ACDC" against which I have nothing, even worshiped their music to listen. Some poet John Grisham, as far as I know, he's a writer and a lawyer and I'm also Mr. Veseinovic, trying to draw attention to the agenda again and again, and he was talking about the Office instead of his amendment. The criterion I had for Mr. Janko Veselinović was exactly the same as I had for Mr. Martinovic. So, if I'm supposed to make warnings, I have to say one or the other or not to say one and the other. The fact that Mr. Martinovic spoke for eight minutes, and Mr. Janko, who also has 11 and a half minutes, spoke about three minutes, so he was warned twice to return to the agenda and this one in eight minutes four times, is about the same standard. It is therefore important that the Rules of Procedure be applied with the same standard, whether they come from the ruling majority or from MPs belonging to the former regime. I ask all fellow Members of Parliament to return to the agenda. Do you want Mr Stefanovic to make a statement to the Assembly? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: No) The word is according to the Rules of Procedure Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5588	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the injured member of the 108st speaking - the order of the National Assembly session is the president of the National Assembly. You have now tried to justify yourself and your actions that I do not know what he is motivated by, whether because the speaker who spoke for eight minutes and not for one single second on the subject of the agenda, you have not given him a warning, and article 109 says when a warning is said – says to the MP who, despite the warning of the president of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. In addition to the warning, it doesn't say how much, you've now introduced something, one warning for two minutes is probably tolerance. I don't know if this applies to all MPs now or only to the MPs of your group, I don't know what this is about? I absolutely advocate that this Rules of Procedure apply the same rules for everyone. I ask you to take the courage to comply with the Rules of Procedure which comes from your parliamentary group, feel free to apply the Rules of Procedure and exercise your right, not your right, but the obligation imposed upon you by the Rules of Procedure. We are constantly listening to one of the floscules here, and Mr. Predicator used the same thing, he says - until yesterday he's in power, and you even said - regime. I think you from that place should pick your words a little bit. There has been no regime in Serbia since 2000. It wasn't until yesterday. For two years, another regime has been in power in Serbia. In two years, there's a lot of work to be done. A lot, so there wouldn't be what we're in today, and we didn't see anything done. I keep hearing stories about the regime...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5589	Thank you. Let me just respond to article 107's advertising. I would just add to the answer I addressed to Mr Stefanovic, I would not want any of my fellow Members, MPs, regardless of what parliamentary groups they came from, to feel the application of the Rules of Procedure in full light, as I felt it while I was a national MP who did not support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why I am more tolerated both towards Mr Veselinović and Mr Martinovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5590	Article 27 and 104, Mr. Chairman. Once again, we are getting some of the qualifications of the Members of the People on fresh and bayats, like this and like that. What does that look like? As long as there is more disrespect for the National Assembly, disrespect for collegiation, lack of home education, lack of arguments that replace insults? After all, I am proud to say, as one of the great members of the SNS, that the SNS is coming, that people are joining, that they are gladly accepted with their knowledge, their desire for reform, their experience, unlike DS, where only the papers are fresh. And these fresh prints are the product of everything they've done in 12 years, as much as they're in power. I don't see any reason why anyone should be upset that Col. Martinovic here was taking out corruption affairs and where he's lucky that these are the only ones. I think she was smalling the National Assembly to bring out all the affairs and all the paperwork for those affairs that happened in our society. And there's only one kind of affair and a warning that we as a society, as a nation, would have a lot more money in the budget so that we could react to elemental disasters, not to go around the world with our own hand, to say -- help us rebuild our country, instead of being in the budget and to be for the citizens of Serbia, not to be in private pockets, and I don't know what places and islands with exotic names. That's why I think Mr. Martinovic's discussion was in place and there's no need for nervousness, no need for yours, no need for an opposition colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5591	Thank you. Do you want me to repeat the answer I gave both to Mr Stefanovic and Djurisic? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. ) Would you like to make a statement to the Parliament in Vote Day? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. All right. Right on line, MP Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5592	Thank you, Chairman. I will join my colleagues from the opposition who feel that you did not adequately act when you enabled the SNS MP to speak out of subject for eight minutes. My exposure wasn't offensive to anyone. I just said that the application of the law on restoration is very important in order to reach autumn to restore the country from floods and I cited the competences of the Director of the Office to do the job. I don't know what's going on here. I'm afraid that these days SNS MPs are caught up in work and words that can hardly bring anything useful...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5593	Please, Mr. Veselinović, even though the replica is do not mention the MPs, please finish the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5594	Will you give me a few more instructions on how to use my three minutes, not to mention the MPs, right? Well, Mr. Martinovic spoke directly to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5595	Please don't mention Mr. Martinovic, finish your line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5596	So, at a time when MPs sitting in the SNS benches were leading the country, the salaries of Serbian citizens were one mark, there was no bread to buy in stores, our citizens went to battlefields, they died...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5597	Time, sir. We're not talking about who ran the country. We're talking about amendments. Time. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The Government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5598	I ask you to count this as the time of the president of the parliamentary group. Our amendment is to delete Article 13 which speaks – the way in which the conditions for participation in the procurement procedure are proved, says - in the public procurement procedure of Article 12 of this Act, the fulfilment of mandatory and added conditions for participation in the public procurement procedure can be demonstrated by a declaration to which the bidder, under full material and criminal responsibility, confirms that he meets the conditions. We think that, regardless of the need to urgently carry out the public procurement procedure, in order to complete the process of restoration in time until the start of bad days, whether it will be the beginning of autumn or a little later, but surely before winter, so that people in warm times and when those coldest days come. This brings one, into our legal system, one serious precedent, written statement confirming compliance with obligations under full material and criminal responsibility. It was both in the previous discussion and in principle when and in principle we discussed and again today, as the people say, this is a statement on "mothers to me" and I think it's unusual that we have such a solution, because what happens if that statement was not credible, that the legal person gave such a statement agreed, what happens to the public procurement process, and how much time will we lose in proving whether or not the statement was true and whether it will ultimately speed up the whole process? We have suggested that this be deleted, that it remains a solution that, as so far in the procurement process, all the statements necessary to prove that the bidder can participate in the tender are obtained. We talked in a discussion about a previous member who was a piece of paper. There are a lot of them, but I believe that the state administration has made progress and that these papers can be obtained within 10 days and there is no need for this member of the law in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5599	Thank you. The floor was addressed by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5600	I have to admit, I don't understand why someone's asking to delete a member who regulates the way in which conditions are proved for participation in the procurement process. In fact, if someone had just complained that they suspected some kind of procedure, I understand it, the auto-projection is a complete miracle, but the fact that sometimes some public companies and state firms here just drove it through public procurement and through a direct contract system, it's impossible here, because even when it comes to such a situation that you have to react quickly, every procurement must appear on the office's website and everyone has the insight to see what kind of public procurement has taken place. This kind of transparency is absolutely commendable, regarding this law and I don't understand why someone here suspects the good intentions of the government and even good intentions of the state to get people back home as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5601	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5602	For SNS, such an amendment is unacceptable, such as inadmissible policy, as the fellow promoter of the amendment said, to my mother or to my word of honor. I think that such a policy is unrealistic, unnecessary and such a policy is not led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have a responsible policy, that the funds raised for the reconstruction of our country come to one place, that there is a man, not from the world of politics, but from the NGO sector, with these funds. We have also shown transparency and the desire to restore both transparent and public, that the money sent to citizens for reconstruction and municipalities to rebuild the infrastructure there and end. There was one opposition initiative that is on our hands and on our consent, to the consent of the largest parliamentary group. That initiative has been silenced. Since she has been silent on this side, here I am publicly obliged to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, launch an initiative to establish a survey that will monitor the spending of funds collected for the restoration of our country, but this polling committee will also deal with the spending of funds directed to rebuild the Kings, to rebuild Jaša Tomic, to rebuild after the earthquake in Mionica, to rebuild in all municipalities and cities that have affected the elemental disasters. This will be another instance, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not only have a legislative but also a control role, because on the one hand we are ready and willing to put an end to all possible irregularities, but we are willing to have this process of rebuilding our country transparent and under the control of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I see that it was to colleagues who first proposed something like that, and then to extend the authority of that survey committee, they were silenced. Here, I publicly undertake that the SNS, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will launch an initiative to form such a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5603	Thank you, Mr. Babic. Deputy Prime Minister Prof. Zorana Mihajlovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5604	I must admit, from the moment Mr Vladimir Djukanovic appeared to the previous member and when he pointed to Article 13 on the word "can" and why it is not "must", although everyone convinces me that it is okay to be "can," but however it may be looked, I am completely in agreement, because in the previous Article 12, in the last position, we exempt something, and then we say "can". "I can" can mean yes or no. So “must. ” Instead of ‘can’, it must be ‘must’. I'm just watching and technically do we have to stop, so we have a board for a little while and adopt it, or can we do it at the Assembly? Please tell me what order it is. I'm sure that instead of "can" it has to be "must" because if someone doesn't get here and deliver all of what someone might do, there are municipalities that will do it, but if someone doesn't deliver everything necessary for public procurement, then he has to sign under full material and criminal responsibility to have all that information. Now I'm waiting for you and the service to tell me what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5605	Thank you. I would ask the president of the SNS parliamentary group to consult on this, to see how we can overcome this problem. Until then, I will give my word to the People's Messenger Dr Blago Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5606	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, we suggest our amendment to delete Article 13. I would try once again to explain what is the intensity of our proposal to delete Article 13 and why in the previous article we asked that those bidders who will perform the works, work, rebuild, build, whatever they are doing, which is the subject of reconstruction and the job of reconstruction, which will be paid out of donation money, must have complete documentation. Complete documentation can be collected within the specified time limit. That's what I was involved in. You say he can't, and I say he can. It's okay, I don't want to make a big deal out of it, but what's important, and what I'm asking you to do is check with your associates at the Public Procurement Administration, which percentages have been broken down by tenders for incomplete documentation. It's a higher percentage of the downing of the tender than any other part of the tender process, incomplete documentation. You are suggested here by the service to accept as minister and to put a signature on something that someone commits to do so that people in the office don't have problems. The conditions for competition in the tender do not require much time to collect. The APR has everyone, the social security application must have, otherwise he couldn't get the stamps. So, licenses, licenses, they're firms that always participate in tenders and they have it ready. It'll be easier for people in the office, easier for people who conduct tenders. Do not make it difficult or open a small door to have a headache and to think about whether or not they have done the right thing. Don't let us here in the Assembly worry about whether the contractors will be able to collect the papers. If he is unable to collect papers, how will he do a 10m-euro job? My suggestion is that, and it's up to you to decide. Besides, you're in charge of this law, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5607	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Prof. Zorana Mihajlović reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5608	Thank you. Let me do it one more time. It is not possible and it is very difficult in ten days to collect not only what I read to your fellow MP, but ten more things that depend on the state itself, from the state authorities. That's exactly why it is this article13. And that is why I believe that instead of saying "can" in Article 13, because we are talking about it now, it should stand "must". So if he doesn't collect all that, he'll sign under criminal and material responsibility that everything he has in the file is valid. Otherwise, otherwise, we'll have a situation that we won't be able to conduct the public procurement procedure not in ten, but in two months. I'm sorry, but that's why we're passing this law, so things can be a lot faster. I repeat once again, we have a Commission that must react to any problem that may occur. I believe that, with all those institutions that the state has, we're not going to get into the situation that you're talking about right now, that someone is going to take advantage of it. That's why we have to put this Article 13 on the table as I have now suggested in Parliament itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5609	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The People's MP Gordana Komic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5610	I use the time of the parliamentary group, interested in fully agreeing on the remarks made by the Deputy Prime Minister, that Article 13 instead of "can be proven", it writes "must prove" or "must be proven". I leave this to those who are doing the redaction, given that the parent board can no longer give amendments to the Rules of Procedure, that in such an important matter, which we all agree on, to set a break before the vote, both in principle and in detail, and that with full knowledge of the importance of change in the member, and probably even with a more qualified advice of the professional service, to do in those ten, fifteen minutes, I will not say the editorial, since it is not an editorial, it is essential, but it is important that the Assembly knows what it is about, and that it is in line with the business provisions, which define when, at which point and which authority can change the members of the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5611	Thank you. Mr. Bradic, you're registered in the system, but you no longer have the time of the parliamentary group. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5612	Just for a little while. I'm glad that on my point, the Honorable Minister has appreciated this, and I believe that this will now be corrected. It's just that colleagues, who, in good faith, have submitted this amendment to erase themselves, but we simply can't do it, because there are some things that need to be done urgently to get people home and roads and everything that's been torn down. However, you just have to look at Article 13, because a binding clause is going to be placed, or something which is binding that you have to prove this correctness, you prove it under full material and criminal responsibility. You prove it under full material and criminal responsibility. I believe that no one is truly unaware to this extent that he wants to play with it and that he may potentially respond if he cheats on the Commission or the Office. After all, this is about solving the problem of people who have been hit in an elementary accident. You know, it would be very scary and monstrous if someone wanted to trick these people in such a way and in general the state and make a living on it. It would be really monstrous to me, and I believe that we're not like humans after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5613	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? The word has been given by MP Drazen Jaric, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5614	I would like to support Madam Minister, because I believe that in a regular procedure, that, at regular times, I am conducting an open procedure that lasts for 30 days. Since this is a specific case and an elemental accident that has affected our endangered ends, I support it by a shortened procedure, i.e. The emergency procedure shall be carried out in ten days. If it were possible to collect the documentation in ten days and under regular conditions, the procedure would take ten days. They wouldn't let it last for a month, and they wouldn't hold back and conduct the procedure in 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5615	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment to Article 13? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Ivan Karić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5616	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, in the spirit of this debate on the previous amendment, this amendment reads that Article 14 of the statement “cannot be shorter than ten days, ” it is said: “it is seven days. ” It seemed to me that this explanation you gave earlier could be applied here, too, it can't. For me as an engineer, it sounds like whoever logs in on the tenth day, the 11th, the 12th, the 15th day has the right to complain or, if it's problematic seven days because of the deadline, maybe we can say, it's ten days, not to have a different interpretation after the 10th day or before the 10th day, and all with desire, as my distinguished colleagues from the SNS insist, we just want to speed up the procedure. Every night I go back to Obrenovac, and I want to repair both the sewer system and the heat line and the infrastructure as soon as possible. No matter what part of the opposition or perhaps in most things I disagreed with the position, I was the day the Prime Minister started rebuilding the Obrenovac, I was with my colleagues from the SNS in Obrenovac, supporting the beginning of these works, because I believe it is my duty to be with the citizens of Obrenovac and, although I may not always agree with the ways in which it is done, to support the beginning of the works. And I supported it. The desire was to speed up the work by reducing the deadlines and to train the Obrenovac as soon as possible. Here it may be: “It is ten days ” or you may explain that language to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5617	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? Yeah. ) The word is made by the Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5618	Just for a little while. The office is prescribing and cannot prescribe a shorter deadline. I know you'd like five and four. Maybe sometimes, I have to admit, when it's, say, getting some much bigger things, say, for energy. Then maybe that deadline will be over ten days, but it shouldn't be shorter than ten days, because all the experts have estimated it's a minimum of ten days, then up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5619	Thank you. Just one notice for the MPs. I'm sorry, but we're having trouble with the system today. We're just getting five word applications here, and if someone happens to sign up and gets kicked out of the system, they can re-apply, because we don't see at that point, so maybe we can deny someone to sign up. Thank you. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5620	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have already discussed this, with the desire to make the whole process more transparent, here is a proposal that the report on the implementation of the state programme of reconstruction may come to some of the committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as it is not adopted by the state programme of reconstruction, that we may be able to find a way for the Assembly to adopt a report on the implementation of the reconstruction programme. It is clear to me that there are mechanisms and supervision and implementation, but as you said, it will also enter three months, but perhaps it would be good for that final report to adopt or at least consider the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5621	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Articles 157, paragraphs 6 and 161 of Article 1(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 21 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national message, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5622	Thank you. As you said, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has submitted an amendment. World Health Organisation, EU countries have shown solidarity with Serbian citizens through donations or humanitarian aid and medicines and medical means. This amendment is about that right now. However, in our country for the production and transport of medicines, the Drug and Medical Devices Act applies, so that all imported and painted unregistered medicines, which are the subject of donations or humanitarian aid, will not be distributed and placed on the territory of our country, until the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices issues all necessary documents and necessary permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5623	National MP Ivan Karic submitted an amendment proposing that new members of 21a and 21b be added after Article 21. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5624	The Honorable Chairman, respected Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, all the time, to say, there is that impression, and I therefore submit amendments. The lack of a proposal for a state-run reconstruction program... Perhaps these amendments would not be if we saw what the state reconstruction programme looks like, but in my amendments, I predicted what is a particular policy of the Greens, which is ecological control and improvement of the quality of land of agricultural products and water in local water pipelines, especially in rural water pipelines and water springs. The desire was to provide for the state programme and to enter this law, primarily because of the concern for agricultural producers, and later for customers and consumers who would buy agricultural products, and to reconstruct the construction of local water supply sources, especially rural and common waters with source, means, measures and activities to control and improve the quality of the water mentioned, in order to be able to refund or pay in some way. The second part, Article 21b, refers to control and adequate care, deposits of mud, kabass and hazardous waste and other flood applications. The desire was to take extra care of the brown waste. There were all kinds of waste in the streets of Obrenovac, I suppose, on the streets of Krupnje, Ub and other flooded municipalities. In light of some other EU laws that I have consulted while writing these amendments, I had in mind that there might be a need and lack of insight into the state programme. Maybe it led us to these proposals, and maybe it's a real state program that contains it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5625	Deputy Prime Minister Prof. Zorana Mihajlovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5626	To be honest, you've answered it yourself, but let me do it one more time. So in Article 3, where the content of the state programme is at stake, and this is the law, it will be all the resolutions, including environmental protection, food safety, etc. In the state programme under points 2) and (3), there is also an analysis of the current situation, and the measures to be taken, so that the current situation is resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5627	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure have not accepted this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5628	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, the esteemed colleague and fellow Members, is about an amendment that speaks of biocidal means. They're poisons in their contents. These are very dangerous chemicals that can be very dangerous for human health at different concentrations. There was no desire here for any discrimination. We have our own laws, and I think the argument is inadequate, because you have no desire for discrimination, but you have a desire to protect the health of citizens and citizens of this country. In one China, DDT is a legal tool. Do not tell me that such a means will be found in a donation in the Republic of Serbia. When the EU is already seeking to join the EU, and when we want to join the EU, we have provided that, Greens agree, a temporary authorisation for the use of biocidal product in the 1st position of this member is issued only for products registered in the EU, not to discriminate, but to protect the health of citizens and citizens of Serbia, and because in biocidal products, without the Chemical Agency, which has been abolished, many chemical waste can be found, because many countries in this way can get rid of their waste. In many countries, some types of waste, when they entered the EU, is not waste, I apologize, biocidal products are banned, and in some Asian countries, these biocidal products are not banned. Once again, we have different latitudes compared to the one we live in, so maybe those biocidal products will be inappropriate to our geographical widths, to our plant cultures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5629	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5630	I have to support the government for refusing this amendment, and that's very correct, because we can't... First, we are not as a country yet EU member, but I hope we will be. At this point, in a really difficult situation, that we are kind of discriminating anyone who is not in the EU, so that only certain EU firms buy these funds, I think it is not appropriate, because in many countries you have extraordinary funds. If we will, by some degree of security, much safer than the EU itself. I don't understand why someone is asking us to import these funds from EU countries, unless he might have wanted to promote these companies in some lobbying way. I welcome what the government has refused and this amendment must indeed be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5631	You're out of time, Mr. Karicu. (Ivan Karic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5632	I looked at it one more time, not just an explanation, but the law itself and Article 22. (Ivan Karic, from the place: It doesn't make sense. This was an insult. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5633	Mr. Karic, please don't throw away, I will be forced to strictly respect the Rules of Procedure. You interrupted the Deputy Prime Minister's exposure. Please, don't be rude, respect the dignity of the Assembly. (John Karic, from the place: How are you not ashamed? Mr. Karic, please. Mrs. Mihajlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5634	It's for the public, and it's not for your particular question. Article 22 of the law we are now discussing is very detailed and very clear – precisely for the use of biocidal products. Of course, permission is issued by the ministry, by standards that must be met. That's one of the reasons your amendment was rejected. We believe that there is enough material in the law, which will certainly not allow anything that is not in line with the safety of the environment and human health, so that the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5635	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5636	The amendment submitted by MP Ivan Karic has its deep justification. I understand why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution. I understand the ease that is more visible – let me undo the proposal rather than what is known about the content of the amendment, but I think the topic is too serious that it should go without notice. On the side that I think neither Article 21 nor Article 22 have any place in this law. The only excuse is the law's worth of a year. This cannot be the subject of any law other than the law implementing the ministry for which they are responsible, since we understand the explanation that it will be in the state programme of measures. I understand the logic, but we need to listen and hear from each other when it comes to biocidal products. We have a problem here, as well as with chemicals. We have a serious problem with missing control and a missing legal framework for funds that are perfectly legal in countries of which one is, for example, China. She's not the only one. We would like to be quite sure that despite the lack of a strict list of funds that are registered only in the EU, only those funds will be used. I know it won't be a guarantee. Unfortunately for me, I know what biocidal products are and I know what they're like here in traffic. It would be worth noting the ease of political qualifications to give serious guarantees when it comes to granting temporary authorisations to grant biocidal products because it is not only a matter of procedures within the Ministry, but it is a question in certain cases and in certain means of lasting or permanent environmental impact. I don't think I'm challenging anyone in advance or doubting that any ministry will do a bad job by applying registration, but I do know that this is easy to do with the traffic of this kind of product.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5637	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5638	I have to refer to one sentence that you said, and I'll quote you because I wrote it down -- let's cancel out the proposer. I must admit that it is through this law that you can see that neither I as someone who is a resolutely proposing this law I want, and you have seen it from the amendment that has been accepted, to undo the motionary, since this time the proposal for amendment is Ivan Karic. On the contrary, our desire is to promote the law, that the law may be good. I think the ministry that exists is bound to, and so it says, a permit, has to issue a permit. In that sense, we do not see the need, and we have explained that this amendment is to be accepted. I've really heard more about this. Even before, and even now, there is absolutely no intention of undoing any proposal, but rather, that we have a good and clear law. The state programme will be maximum, the deadline for the state programme is 15 days from the date on which the law is passed and through it will be very clearly indicated in all the resolutions the state and the measures taken, and I repeat and return to the beginning, the ministry is required and must issue an appropriate permit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5639	Thank you. On the basis of Articles 157, point 6 and 161 of Article 1(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 23 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Balsa Bozovic together submitted the 26th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5640	The amendment refers to Article 26’s 1st position defining the facilities to be renewed. The wish of my colleagues and myself was to remove any suspicion that a vague definition would require a building permit for an object that was reconstructed or repaired, and we are an existing text item 1. – the reconstruction of objects is carried out through the construction of a new facility, i.e. by reconstruction of the reconstruction or adaptation of an existing facility in accordance with this law, proposed that it be changed and that the reconstruction of objects be carried out by the construction of a new facility, i.e. the reconstruction of recovery, adaptation and current repairs and maintenance of an existing facility in accordance with this law. The reasons for not accepting the amendments say that the basic proposal is more precise, that it is in line with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction which does not define the current repairs and is then said, which is very important for me, that the maintenance of the facility includes in addition to those works and investment and ongoing maintenance of the facility. For works to build a new facility, no construction permit shall be obtained prior to the start of the works, for works on reconstruction, adaptation or resolution under the applicable law, until no consent of the competent authority is obtained for the ongoing maintenance of the facility. So the practical precision that we wanted to make differs in words – repairs, what I quote in my explanation – current maintenance, the legislator offers. It is possible that the reason for the non-acceptance is, but I would like a clear answer as to whether the reason for the rejection of this amendment means that it is written, that none of these works will be asked for a building permit, because it doesn't seem likely. I wouldn't want to leave any doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5641	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5642	For what is provided for in Article 143. The law on planning and construction will be obtained in a year's time, and even if it doesn't arrive, and something has been launched, it is done and built, it is normal to continue, perhaps even after a year. Therefore, it will be obtained but only for what it already exists in Article 143. That's it. And that's what the state and local self-government do.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5643	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5644	One question that doesn't seem to be about the amendment but actually is. In case of objects that don't have any papers, so illegally built objects, to explain to people, I suspect what the answer is, so I don't have an amendment, but I don't think there's a clear picture of what they're entitled to among people who have illegal houses. If they're going into legalisation, can they or can't they? That's why I'd like you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5645	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5646	All those who receive their houses or whatever is done will all have a building permit, regardless of whether they were without a building permit or whether they illegally built their facilities. So we're not going to let these houses that we do 485 houses first be in places they can't be and plus be without a building permit. The building permit is made by the investor, the Office, i.e. the state and local self-government. So everyone will have a building permit as it is Article 143. The law already provided for within this time limit. We won't leave the situation to be illegal again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5647	On the basis of Articles 157, point 6 and 161 of Article 1(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 26 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the 27th and 27th Amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoje Bradić together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5648	Article 27 is located in the part of the law which deals with the criteria for the implementation of the restoration of family, residential facilities and it reads – the restoration of a family residential facility which has been destroyed due to the fact of the flood or the activation of a slide, i.e. the facility for which the competent authority has reached a solution on the ban on the use of the facility, the construction of a new facility in accordance with the state programme of reconstruction is being carried out. Rehabilitation of a residential facility which has been torn down due to the fact of flooding or the activation of a slide, in a location that is not suitable for construction, inadequate hydrological, geological or urban conditions, the construction of a new facility in a location suitable for the construction of monetary assistance or the purchase of another immovable property to the value of a new facility that would be defined by a natural person in accordance with the criteria of the State aid programme. We propose that two new positions be added – the owner of the facility referred to in Articles 1 and 2 which is secured and which is renewed under this law is obliged to transfer the right to the insurance premium for damage or destruction of the facility to the benefit of the Republic of Serbia's budget for decision-making on the renewal of the facility. If the owner of the facility does not act in a manner specified in Article 3, he may not exercise the right to renovate this facility under this law. The present position 3 becomes heading 5 and ends with the position that we accept the criteria for implementing the reconstruction of the facility referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, being determined by the state programme of renewal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5649	Anyone else want a word? Dr Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5650	What's the basic problem, what you saw from the explanation, is not the appropriate expression you used. The insurance premium is something else, you should be insured for the amount. Let me tell you right now, it will be in the state programme as one of the criteria and in the last sentence you are told – the renewal criteria will be established by the state programme. It'll be quite safe, because we wanted to accept the amendment, but it wasn't possible because of this expression.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5651	Thank you. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5652	I hope that the President-in-Office of the Council will not continue the procedure for discrediting the Members, and that next time, the chairman of the Assembly will protect the MPs. As for amendments to Article 37, we conclude once again that there is a lack of a state-run reconstruction programme and it would be helpful if the draft or the proposal for a programme was in the Assembly, then perhaps we could teach these amendments more easily and better. We predicted here that aid could possibly be paid for the restoration of agricultural production, that it would be granted specifically for the costs of the recovery, i.e. the restructuring and remediation of agricultural land that were devastated by floods. In the village where I live, the surrounding agricultural area was several weeks underwater, and then under some black mud that we only assume is the most different chemical composition that probably some toxic substances have in them. With the desire to repair this member and somehow get to the state's post-float reconstruction program, we had a wish and we proposed this amendment. No matter what, I suppose this law will be passed, this law is necessary for both craftsmen and people living in Lazarevec, Krupanj, this law is necessary to restore the country. Although I disagree with many things, although I have been exposed to open insults today, you can count on my help and I am willing to help in the realization of the reconstruction program because I love this country and because I live in the city that suffered the most in the flood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5653	Thank you. On behalf of section 6 and the amendment of the 39th, MPs Marko Djurisic, Marko Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5654	Thank you. The amendment that my colleague Borislav Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic and I have submitted to Article 41 concerns provisions defining decisions on the type and level of assistance, by defining the procedure for granting assistance set out in this law, decision on the type and height of assistance, solutions on the type and height of assistance made by the competent authorities of local self-government units. It speaks of a solution brought by the competent authorities being made to the appeal, a solution to the Commission to determine the damages from natural disasters is finally and an administrative dispute can be brought against it. The final solution is delivered to the office. After the sixth attitude, we add the seventh one that reads – the units of the local self-government referred to in Article 1(2) of this Law have the right to accept in a working relationship a certain time to one year from the date of application of this law the required number of professional workers to carry out the tasks of this member without the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia provided for by the Law on the budgetary system of the Republic of Serbia. This Budgetary System Act implies for all types of these additional jobs and, for example, social protection services, from various other types of decisions, it means that the Government of the Republic of Serbia gives consent if you want to hire someone. In one sentence alone, the law shut down the social protection system in Serbia. It's an unfortunate second topic and it's not directly related to this, but the consequences of the application of this law, the consequences of the approval procedure. I don't blame anyone or think anyone here would do any better. Unfortunately, I know how the system works. In this case simply if you know the situation in local self-government, there are no people who can do this Article 41. The only reason why we suggested this is that just all of the short deadlines, the only deadline that we have extended is in the next amendment on applications themselves, for other reasons. I understand the explanation, this is one of the few arguments that is fine, which the government has given us for these few laws. Is there anyone here in this ministry who reads more than the others? I don't know, I'll handle it, but I'll make it public if that's the case. So, I understand the explanation. There's no reason for this to stand out. The government has a sense of special responsibility when it comes to these matters and if it is necessary to act for these reasons faster in giving consent than in other cases, but just to avoid it, that's where our amendment is from. I'm not asking for an answer or a reason, I understand, I just want to publicly share the argument that the rest of the ministry and the minister's awareness that this will be important as an obstacle that needs to be skipped so that the local self-government business is really done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5655	Thank you. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Zlata Djeric has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 42 of the Law relating to the public of the information on the aid granted. It is something that Serbian citizens will be particularly focused on, or the attention of Serbian citizens will be particularly focused on. My amendment is precisely that the National Assembly, which is the most legislative body, a body where the representatives of citizens, who have the right, are obliged to control the work of the Government, and the government is doing the work of the office, therefore, to add another position in this article. I will read for Serbia's public above all, as the 42nd article reads, which is not controversial: "Data on aid granted and on aid recipients are public data and the office publishes them on its internet presentation." With my amendment, I add another position to this article, which would read, if adopted by Ms. Minister, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia - the office submits a report on the implementation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia every three months, reports are adopted by competent committees and the National Assembly. The reasons for my amendment's refusal states that this amendment is not accepted as Article 11. The bill provides for the Office to submit a report to the Government on financial and non-financial assistance on a three-month basis and, more frequently, on a request from the Government, on a three-monthly basis, on a request from the government, which is also undeniable, as well as on a report on the inflows and outflows of funds intended to eliminate the consequences of the floods affected. Following the adoption of these reports, the Government shall deliver them to the National Assembly, and these reports shall also be published on the Office's website, and the Proposer shall consider the public to be the work of security through that member of the bill. It's not enough, Madam Minister. So this assembly is supposed to adopt those reports. The moment they become the subject of adoption, they become the subject of public analysis and indeed public insight into them. Believe me, the citizens of Serbia will pay special attention to this particular section of government's work. There's gonna be a lot of suspicions, a lot of misunderstandings, a lot of malicious information. So that this would not happen, and in the name of well-meaning, first of all, of this high House where citizens are represented, and on behalf of the consolidation of citizens' institutions of trust with this House and with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I think that this amendment is absolutely justified and absolutely acceptable and at this point to become an integral member of the law. So, what is in the law envisaged, reports to the National Assembly are delivered, and that is their end. The report should be adopted by the National Assembly. She has also adopted some very important reports, and these are the most important ones at the moment, that this tall House adopts them and that citizens get a complete picture and indeed participate in monitoring the realisation of this great deal by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5657	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. The Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5658	Just to be clear, this law certainly does not prevent the congregation from considering all these reports, does not prevent the congregation from using its Rules of Procedure, etc. I have to admit, unlike you, I think this is a law that requires the office to have all the information on its website daily, and we care about all the information being just about the inflow of money and the way it's spent. In these reports, which go three months ago, and I believe it will certainly be three months ago, the government will absolutely discuss all the activities of the Office, adopt and deliver parliament, and parliament will then decide whether to call on its committee, whether to call on the Director of the Office and the representatives of the Government to discuss it. For this reason, we felt that it was not necessary to add now and that parliament would adopt reports, when you could simply take advantage of everything that has already been arranged for your Rules of Procedure, that you would consider it and, of course, invite us all to parliament to talk about this report, as we have, for example, discussed this flood report.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5659	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word was made by the National Parliament of the Magister Zlata Djelic, and uses the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5660	Your Honor, Madam Minister, we are absolutely not different in that attitude. So we think the same thing, and I know that the government is going to control and control the work of the office every day and, of course, to report to you daily. I said already, the public of Serbia will be particularly focused on this section of the government's work. But you just realized something about another member's verb "can" and "must". You don't argue that we can use our mechanisms, but just because something can, it doesn't have to be. If the law is already specified, then it will certainly be implemented to the citizens of Serbia, who are not so focused on the work of parliament itself, it is almost ordered that they will be able to take part in this high House, whose work they are very closely monitoring, to see this report as we analyse it, namely how we see it precisely and thus, through their representatives, participate in the work. That's it. That's it. So I don't dispute everything you said, but between the verb "can" and "must," yes, we can take advantage of our business opportunities. My colleague Babic was just talking about the anecdote committee. I absolutely disagree with that segment, the anecdote committee is created in troubled situations, and this is not a problem, this is a problem that has arisen by some other circumstances, and the government wants as successful as possible, as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible to solve it. Just because of that trust institute, I think that would be a good thing. But here, I'll accept your explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5661	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Meho Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5662	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have tabled the amendment just from the right of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia to protect the right to their own privacy, and also because of the fact and the fact that it was just a matter of time spoken of by a respected colleague of Zlata Đeric, as well as by a minister of reasons, that everything will also be transparent on the Ministry's website, i.e. the Office. The amendment that I have submitted is literally – if the recipient is helped by a natural person, the data from Article 1 position are the name and last name, the city, or place of residence and nothing more. Why do I say that? In an explanation to reject my amendment, the Government says that the amendment is not accepted since the Office will respect the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act when publishing the information on the aid granted, as well as the recipients and help. As you say in your explanation that you will respect the Personal Data Protection Act, which is exactly what the law says and expects of every law, including this one whose amendments we are discussing today, to specifically determine the purpose, way of processing and scope and type of data. This gives the impression that both the purpose and the method of processing can somehow arise, but you don't know what kind of data is going to be published on the site. As it is written, if only this one, first and so far, is left with the sole position of Article 42, the possibility of arbitraryness, as I would say, is left, so that everyone can, for example. Every home number of citizens, can name parents, can nationality, can blood type. You're nodding your head so it can't, but it doesn't say here. That is why I and I ask you, and I believe that you will fully understand and accept this amendment that only the name and last name and place of residence of the person who will be the recipient of this financial assistance stands in that second article. Otherwise, I'm afraid it doesn't happen to us in a few days, when it's published in the Official Messenger, that the Commissioner doesn't cause intervention precisely because of the processing of data that isn't proportionate to the purpose it's intended for. Here, for a simple reason, and starting right from the fact that we're protecting human right to privacy and personal data, especially since we've been in practice recently, and even while these unfortunate floods have been, we've been in a position to see and abuse some data, and we know everything that's happened to some citizens when their home numbers have been misused and individual companies registered, so later the tax police were chasing them to pay some cash compensation. Only for that reason, and otherwise I think we understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5663	Thank you. The government's vice president, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5664	Also, for this reason, of course, the Personal Data Protection Act must be respected. The office is, I remind you, once again, government service. If something has to be taken care of, it is understood that the law is respected. In that sense, the office and the people who are doing this will look after it. We're responsible for that. That's why it wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5665	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5666	The amendment applies to transitional and final provisions and usually these amendments are submitted only if you want to move some deadlines to apply members in advance or shorter. Our amendment refers to the deadlines for reporting damages and is related to Article 46, so I will first state the link, and then the content of the amendment. Article 46, which will be specifically declared by the Assembly, states that this law will enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger", and ceases to be valid for one year from the date of entry into force. Since I know the practice of the Assembly publishing its acts in the Official Messenger, it can be today, so the law will start from tomorrow, and at the latest it will start to apply the day after tomorrow, so that the last deadline for reporting damage will be either July 27th or 28th. This is very important information, and that is why we have submitted an amendment requesting that the eight-day period of the day of entry into force of this law, which therefore enters into force either tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. The deadline for reporting damages to extend from these eight days to 30 days. The question is anything to choose, 30 days, 15 days, 10 days, it's not just a number, it's a matter of awareness that people have to have time to report damage. That you have a pretty large number of people who aren't on the field of municipalities where the damage happened. That you have objects that are semi-conditional, unconditional, and that the owners of objects are with relatives, with friends in other places. I know it should all come together. The explanation rejecting this amendment says that the amendment is not accepted since the report of damages in most cases has already been filed. So it's a report adopted by the government, which contains a list of 126 units of local self-government that reported damage. With that explanation, we have a problem. If there's mostly a total list and a total number of applications, then I have to ask -- why and how is the way these data are collected consistent with a law that wasn't in force at that time? Not doubting that it matches and understanding that these are two parallel processes and when it is not such a situation as a flood and everything that is a huge job that needs to be done as quickly and as high as possible. Ours, it seems quite justified to us, is that these eight days until July 27th or 28th, it will simply be too short a deadline for all those who want to report the damage to do so. In particular, in the second position of the same member to whom we have submitted the amendment, it is said that the damages lodged until the date of entry into force of this law are considered to have been filed under this law. Only then is it unclear why it's given for another eight days. I'm not against it, I'm telling you, and I have a dilemma, eight, 15, or 30, and I'm not against the amendment either, I understand why it's not accepted. I understand the explanation. I thank the chairman for trying to calm the MPs, that's how it happens, or when he's a boring speaker, or when no one in the O.R. is interested in the subject of which the speaker speaks. I wish this was the first case, and all my fellow MPs were bored with worrying that all those who have had the damage had time to report it. So I'm not asking for an answer or anything, just to keep in mind this short term.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5667	Time, Mrs. Comic. You're out of time. Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5668	I'll answer you anyway. It is true that from the very beginning, therefore, as I have already said since 20 May, since the first meeting of the Commission for the quantification of damages from natural disasters, we have started to work with local self-governments and to ask them to provide us with data on damages, i.e. to see on their own ground where the damage is, and that people and organisations and businesses, report their damage. I have to admit, when I say almost everyone, I'm not going to tell them all on purpose. So, we're leaving another time and if we keep working on it, I'm talking and if our teams are in local self-government, possibly another time that if something isn't reported to check it out again. So that's why we're leaving more time. On the other hand, we think that's enough, since we already have almost all the data now. So, just trust me on time, 'cause the last month of local self-government, they've been supplying information. What happened over the past month is being innovated in terms of self-evaluation, so the amount of that assessment, whether they've done an assessment somewhere, which they're innovating otherwise with teams, experts who know if anything is well estimated, I'm talking about the amount now. About the fact that it has already been reported physical damage, it has indeed already been reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5669	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, you have two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5670	That's enough, thank you. I'm not sure from the noise I haven't heard everything. Just a brief suggestion to be on public service, and also on other televisions with national frequencies day of entry into force, and these deadlines often allow people to get information. It's not the subject of the law, it's my application. You'd probably do it yourself, but here's the thing, conscience works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5671	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5672	I'm sorry, but a little more patience, I know my sweet voice can't bother you. Despite all the noises, I listened carefully to the esteemed colleague Komic and, of course, important Minister Mihajlović, and as far as amendments to this article are concerned, I have to agree to what Mrs Comic said, and here's why. The reasons which are not accepted state that the claim of damage in the largest number of cases is, in the largest, already reported. That's what we do, actually, is we think about reports filed by local self-government units. You have a number of units of local self-government where commissions do not respond to citizens despite persistent appeals, despite persistent calls, despite persistent requests from citizens to respond to write down damages or do so on a flat-rate basis. You've got a commission coming up. Get you some blank paper. Leave you two or three minutes to write down what your flood is ruined, and then leave you with some number of phones to call them later so you can fill in what you think or what you didn't have time to specify. Then no one picks up that phone number. That's what I'm telling you, as someone who comes from an endangered area, from the Obrenovac municipality that was extremely affected by the floods. I delivered it to the board, and I wrote down how much time I had left behind for two to three minutes because they said that the sooner I said so. I can't name everything that's been destroyed by the flood in two minutes, but I've also had complaints from a number of fellow citizens who have appealed to me that this commission, when it's already leaving phone numbers on those phone numbers to at least respond to, that they know who to report the damage to in the first place. You have, I'm sure, every day I'm in Obrenovac, a lot of people who haven't reported the damage yet. So, I just don't think I'm defending, and the solution that was proposed by the amendment can be accepted and the solution that you've given, but given the situation on the ground as it is today in Obrenovac, I think this deadline is very small, because people absolutely haven't arrived and haven't been able to report everything. There are many people who are no longer going to report to Obrenovac, going with that attitude, who have not reported any damage. Some of them haven't even opened their houses yet, because they left right after the flood, they haven't even come back yet. I'm specifically telling you on my case, I haven't been able to write down everything I've been destroyed in two minutes, after 10 days of calling the commission, I can't call someone every day six times without them answering my cell phone. Just a precaution, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5673	Mr. Toskovic, you're in the system, you want a word? Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5674	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I would worry about this last 44th amendment, which the opposition has submitted for a simple reason, because they've been criticising all day why we didn't make this bill on the restoration of flooded areas, we didn't bring it before, but we're bringing it now. Now they're extending the deadline for the application in 30 days, and then how can we accept that amendment, when they're extending time to finish it as soon as possible. I don't think this amendment should be accepted, and it is in no way necessary to pay attention to what has been attacked all day by this draft flood recovery law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-18-0.u5675	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle in particular and in general. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 77(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Friday 18 July 2014 starting at 6 p.m. as the day for voting on all points of the agenda of this session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I'm just asking to let you know, except for the 1st and 2nd item of the agenda that the National Assembly has already decided on. Thank you. We'll join the vote just so the synopsis on the vote is over, which is why we have to wait, we never know when you're going to finish the discussion, it's a notice for both you and the public. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 160 MPs are present in the hall and that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We move on to the decision of the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW OF THE RESEARCH OF THE PURPOSE IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the bill on the removal of the consequences of the flood in the Republic of Serbia, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments: the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications to Articles 1. (with correction), 21, 23 and 26, MPs Marko Đurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaž Bradic, member of the 3rd and National MPs Boris Stefanović, Gordana Komić, Balša Bozovic, member of 5. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Suzanne Spasojevic, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 157 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – four, abstentions – there is no vote, not 160 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 164 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 165 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 166 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted three of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – 10 abstentions – there is no vote, 156 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – eight, abstentions – there is no vote of 158 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic has tabled an amendment proposing that new members of 21a and 21b be added after Article 21. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – four, abstention – one, 168 of the 173 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – four, abstentions – there is no vote, 162 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – 10 abstentions – there is no vote, 156 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 27th and 27th Amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – four, abstentions – there is no vote, 164 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 6 and Article 39 of the amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradić together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – eight, abstentions – there is no vote of 158 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote 152 of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – 78 abstentions – no, 85 of the 173 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People's MPs, I have been informed that it is due to the acceptance of the amendment to Article 13. Bills submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić, there is a legal gap, so there is a need for the committee to be responsible, in accordance with Article 165. The Rules of Procedure, which will bring the new amendment into line with the text of the draft law. That's why I'm setting a 30-minute break. I ask the members of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to meet immediately and submit the necessary amendment, i.e. the report. Thank you for listening to me.
