ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1697	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 117 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 112 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1698	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I am Miljan Miletic, and I come from a small municipality of Svrlig, located near Nis. Otherwise, I am an MP from the SNS list and I represent the United Peasant Party in the Serbian Parliament. My question would be about problems in part of the country's first row E14. It is a former highway, which goes from Nis via Svrljig, Književci, Zaječar, towards eastern Serbia. There's a lot of car accidents going on in that part of the road. According to Srlig police station in 2012, there were 10 car accidents. In 2013, there were 19 car accidents, one bus rollover, and 14 people were injured, two more difficult and 12 easier. In 2014, by today, there were four car accidents, and among them was an accident involving a tanker and a tow truck. That part of the road is very busy with traffic. There are a number of accidents in the part of Razbiglav and Djurdjac. That part of the trip is said, and I have repeatedly, as president of the municipality, when I was in the previous period, written, along with the head of the police station in Svrlig suggestion and requirements for the competent ministry of traffic, according to the Ways of Serbia, that at that part of the road, Razbiglava, whose name says what is happening there, and Djurdjac solves the problem and that there are no more such accidents. That road, as I said earlier, is very loaded, there are large numbers of vehicles that work that way. From 2012 to today, there were also car accidents that had a fatal outcome. As president of the municipality, as president of the municipal council and president of the Security Council, I wrote several times in 2012 and 2013 to solve this problem, so that such things don't happen anymore. At the same time, all these accidents happen when it rains, and when that first rain hits a vehicle a little faster and there are these car accidents, where there is a great burden for the citizens of the Municipality of Srljig and for all the people who go that part of the way. The Srlig police station, according to its capabilities, whenever it starts to rain, puts its vehicle on fire with a light signal that in some way warns all those who come on that side of the road to slow down and not have an accident happen. On May 8th, there was another car accident where the outcome was a serious physical injury to a baby, a mother, and after a few days there was a car accident where the tanker and the truck caused major problems. I hope that the Ministry of Transport, or the Roads of Serbia, will finally solve this problem, because there is a warrant for a traffic inspector in charge of that part of the state road in charge of solving these problems. My question was the Ways of Serbia - when will the problem be solved at the end of the road E14, that is the way from Nis through Svrjig, Književec, towards eastern Serbia and when will this problem be solved? At the same time, if I may, I would take the opportunity to congratulate the glory of all who celebrate today, because Serbs celebrate fame and when it is most difficult, and now it is one of the most difficult days for our country. All the best and all the good.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1699	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1700	I would ask a parliamentary question that is a matter of local self-government, but it contains elements of questions and answers whether or not there is a legal state in our country. In the town of Sombor, Councilman Dragan Stanisic resigned on 17 April 2014 for the reason the Anti-Corruption Agency found there to be a conflict of interest in the committee. A day later, next on the list of the committee group, Mrs. Nada Sporin sent a letter accepting her mandate as next on the list. On May 6th, a mandated electoral commission was also scheduled to determine one and the other facts, however, the president of the commission suddenly cancelled the session. Meanwhile, about half a month later, Mr Stanisic, who was still in conflict of interest, had the official opinion of the commission, or the Anti-Corruption Agency, to step down. I ask the competent ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Administration and local self-government, to give its opinion as to how it is possible for someone who is in conflict of interest and why there is a decision by the Anti-Corruption Agency to continue to perform that function and how it was possible to call off that resignation. It may not be irrelevant in this whole story, and perhaps this issue should be addressed by some other authorities, not only this ministry, that Mr Stanisic, meanwhile, changed his party colors and that in the meantime, he became part of the ruling coalition, or belongs to a party that now places the mayor in Zrenjanin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1701	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1702	Madam President, in the days when Serbia is obsessed with all the consequences of the great floods that have been unrecorded in our history, and at the same time impressed by the solidarity of only organised citizens, young people, police officers, firefighters, rescuers and all others, it is certain that, with all the citizens who have suffered damage to other material goods, our farmers have suffered. Two years ago, I asked the government, and this is a question for Prime Minister Vukic, as it was promised that in March of last year, the parliamentary procedure would enter the Cooperative Law, and we are particularly interested in the area that regulates agricultural cooperatives and the way of organisation, because cooperatives with a tradition of over 170 years have completely died. In half of the 19th century, Serbia was among the first countries to organise cooperative forms of association between farmers, primarily farmers and craftsmen. We are among the first 10 countries in the world in the international cooperative alliance. Serbia is a country rich in cooperative history and traditions. The first credit agricultural cooperative in Serbia was founded only in 1894 in the village of Vranovo near Smederev. As early as 1895, the Serbian Agricultural Cooperatives' main union was established. Co-operatives were neat and advanced and splintered like mushrooms after the rain. The first legal and agricultural cooperatives were brought in 1898. In the Kingdom of Serbia, in 1900, there were about 650 agricultural cooperatives, and at the beginning of World War II about 3,500. The problems in agriculture at the time were similar to today's, the depravity of the property, the poorer land treatment and the desire to share the market. Then comes another failed communist experiment that restricts farmers in terms of their ownership, restricts them in terms of land maximum, as Peter Stambolic, one of those who black-headed us with their reforms, so that the peasant does not capitalize. The owners of the country are taken away by the management rights of their property, everything is collectiveized, and then they come back in the 1990s when the country has to return unfairly to the owners. Only somewhere in the Duke's territory is about 700,000 acres of land taken from people, owned by them. As a consequence, we have an absolutely failed transition in cooperative and downgrade of cooperatives and a shut-down of, above all, agricultural farming cooperatives and we have a peasant who is completely abandoned and left to himself. As a result, one of the government's main tasks is to re-energise cooperatives on the same principles on which they were founded, and modern society must rest on the original cooperative principles that have been confirmed and modernised at the International Association Congress in Manchester in 1995, because this is the only proper way to organise farmers in an organisation without which the village definitely cannot function. My question is, since the cooperative law has long been made as a working text, when will the cooperative law enter the assembly procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1703	The word is Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1704	Honored presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, my question, this time will be a request to the Ministry of Health, goes to the President of the Republic Government. Today I will inform you that the law that regulates treatment and diagnosis of children suffering from rare diseases is Zoya's law. I think you've all heard about Zoe's law in the O.R. A few things I'll tell you now. Zoya is a girl who suffered from Batten's disease, one of the rare diseases, a Novosadian who was invisible to the state of Serbia, the Ministry of Health and the Republic Fund, like many other children who suffer from rare diseases. Zoja died on August 6th, and since August 6th, her family has chosen to make the law with me, to place all their problems in the diagnosis of the treatment of little Zoya in the parameters, in a bill that would solve problems for all the other children. Zoya in Greek means life. This law is the law of life, a law that would solve the problems of all our children who suffer from rare diseases. This law, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I myself have done with the family of little Zoya, with teachers who treat rare diseases and this law has received more than 50 NGOs so far. The law also received support from the previous health ministry and previous health ministers, but the extraordinary parliamentary elections prevented this law from coming to the agenda of today's Assembly. I want to share one piece of information with you about this law. I am prepared to withdraw this law from the assembly procedure and to complete this law together, possibly complement this law, improve this law for the sake of children suffering from rare diseases and make this law a law that we will unanimously adopt in the Serbian Parliament. In the previous session, I had an agreement with the president of the National Assembly, Mr Stefanovic, on this law, and I hope that both the new president and the heads of parliament clubs will consider this law. At the end of the discussion, I will share this bill with every head of Parliament to see what is in the assembly procedure and to beg for this law. I've never begged anyone in my life before. I pray for this law because this law will solve the problems of children who suffer from rare diseases. The problems that little Zoya has had are many children who are invisible to the state of Serbia. Children suffering from Hunter's syndrome, children suffering from Grushe's disease, children suffering from Friedrich's attack, children suffering from Batten's disease, children suffering from MPS syndrome, many of our children for whom we collect money through SMS messages, as we collect from the victims in flooded areas. Let's legally regulate like many European countries. Many countries in the environment, even Croatia and Slovenia have legal regulations to treat rare diseases. I would hate to see the situation happen again in the future that the president of the Association for Rare Diseases, Marija Joldic, who has a child who suffers from rare diseases, is waiting for the health minister to share cars, 60 of them and something, and that the Republic of the Government has no hearing for these children. This is a desire for us all to take this law very seriously, because this law raises us in the eyes of human Serbia. It raises us in the eyes of the European Serbia. He raises us up in the eyes of all others who see Serbia as one responsible country that is the most vulnerable and vulnerable part of its population, and these are sick children who suffer from rare diseases, he intends to preserve. Two, three things about this law. The main thing is that this law regulates that unless a doctor can make a diagnosis within six months of a child, he has an obligation to send it to the expense of the state abroad, and that after the diagnosis that this child is entitled to therapy. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I inform you that children with rare diseases have no right at all in Serbia at the moment and that the Republic Fund is not seeing these children. For the last 15 seconds, I will use this bill to share this bill with all the heads of Parliament and the president.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1705	I thank the MP. The word is "Zonimir Stević".
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1706	Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the parliamentary question of the Minister of Industry, Prof. Dr. Dusan Vujovic. It may be early, but it is timely. Certainly one of the biggest problems in the territory of the Serbian state, which we face every day for two decades ago, is the problem of unemployment, especially of the young generation. With full understanding of the economic situation in which we are as a state and society, especially in central Serbia, with deep regret for the tragic floods that have hit us, the problem of unemployment is particularly pronounced and has its specificity, complexity, importance, importance of political, economic and state weight on KIM. In fact, it has been 15 years, and no one seriously, has systematically dealt with the problem of finding opportunities to develop long-term strategies and projects for future young generations for 15 generations of employment that have graduated from secondary schools and colleges. There were various programs and promises where studies were made. I have to say the results were gone. In particular, it was done in pre-election campaigns, and I would like to remind you that there were plenty of choices on KIM at the local, regional and republican level. What was done in the previous period by the ministry and the KIM Office is an attempt to alleviate the problem of unemployment in KIM, but certainly not solves this big problem. I point out this because of a process for KIM that is not yesterday's, nor today's, but tomorrow's and no moment's I want to reduce the weight and complexity of general life on KIM because life in KIM space is still difficult, complex and burdensome. Do I need to remind the public of the safety and freedom of movement, double registration, property rights, the fate of the missing and kidnapped, the right to health care that these days is threatened by lack of medication, the right to adequate education and other human rights? The limitting factor and the additional difficulties are that the Serbian people and other non-Albanian lives are not given any possibility of hiring in so-called temporary institutions at KIM, without talking about large systems such as the Elektroprivred Kosovo and Metohija, the cement factory "Djeram Jankovic", the Ferronics factory in Glogovac. To remind the public that workers in large systems and institutions at KIM after 1999 were expelled and expelled and not lost their basic right by their own free will, which is the right to work. With this in mind, certainly EU representatives have the responsibility and role to take part in solving this burning problem together with our government. According to KIM County Employment Service records, there are over 25,000 unemployed people in the province's territory. In the northern part of the labour market records there are over 8,000, in the area of the central part of KIM 6,500, the Pomoravska end of 6,000, and the last problem is on the territory of the municipality of Strpce where there are over 5,000 unemployed. A clear message from the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, is that the compensation to Serbs in KIM continues without a downsizing, a guarantee for the survival of Serbs in the KIM area. For these reasons, I am asking the Minister of Economy in the context of the proposal for a measure, what is foreseen to address the problem of unemployment in KIM and will foreign investors be brought to these measures in co-operation with international representatives to open production facilities in the Serb enclaves at KIM? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1707	No more sign-ins for the word. We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic, Dr Miljan Nikolic, Aleksandar Jablanovic, Nevena Stojanovic, Olgica Batic, Grozdana Banac, Milorad Stosic and Dragan Jovanovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of Proposer Nikola Selaković, the Minister of Justice, I have called for the members of the National Assembly to attend and Biljana Pavlovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Vladimir Davidović, Assistant Minister of Justice, Dr Milan Stevović, Director of the Department of Criminal Penalty, Aleksandra Stepanovic, Head of the Department of Criminal Sanctions, Dušanka Garić, Chief of Justice Department, Jovan Ćostic, Head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Department of Justice. We continue to work and move on the search in detail of the 4th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE CRIMINAL SANCTIONS You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićevic, Mirko Čikiriz, Neđo Jovanovic, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Olgica Batić. National MP Neđo Jovanovic, written on 13 May 2014, withdrew the amendment to Article 39. It's a bill of law. National MP Meho Omerovic withdrew the amendments to Article 19 and to the title above Articles 20 and 20 at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1708	Mr. Minister, what I said in the debate in principle I'm going to repeat now. A modern, modern law on the execution of criminal sanctions that meets the needs of our time has arrived in the congregation procedure, and we will support it. What I wanted first with my colleague, Olga Batic, was that the first solution that I suggested to specify the types of criminal sanctions is not a solution that does not exist in our environment, exists in some comparative legislation, and our intention was among all amendments one and the same. We believe that we need to stick to those general principles to prevent crime rates, meaning prevention, education, repression. We wish that, in the very text of the law, when a convict looks at this text, it does not seem too rigid, because it should be dismembered which are all kinds of criminal sanctions, and this is especially so, since we have a worrying increase in juvenile delinquency, that we have decades of political and economic violence left above all the consequences of young people, that education, family, society have lost a preventive and contual function and that there are serious social problems of society in a failed transition. It is true what the government wrote in its reply that if you state that criminal sanctions are involved that it is precise enough, but it seems to me first of all clear enough for people of the profession. But if a convict who has been told a measure of security looks at the text of the law itself, there is only talk of penalties or sanctions, and it seems a little rigid, it seems a little startling for someone who has been told, say, a measure of protection or a measure of security, and the ratio of security measures and penalties is such that they have a number of similarities, but they also have a difference, but it is a common goal to prevent behaviour that violates or threatens the values of protected criminal legislation with a view to no longer committing crimes. And one and another kind of punishment restricts or deprives the perpetrator of certain freedoms. For this reason, I wanted to give this amendment some fineness and softness to the text of the law so that it would not act as rigidly as in some times when torture, normative torture and torture in the execution of criminal sanctions, was the only model which prevented the perpetrators from doing crimes in the future, and the practice of debt, not only the execution of law enforcement sanctions in our country, but also in the world, has shown that it is not enough and to achieve the opposite effect of the one seeking to achieve it, which is the resolution, the involvement of perpetrators of criminal acts in normal life and the giving of new chances of getting out of a prison sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1709	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1710	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable Ministers and Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 2. The bill stipulates that the enforcement of criminal sanctions is achieved in general and the individual purpose of their pronunciation in order to successfully reintegrate those convicted in society. My colleague and I have proposed that this be complemented by the words "as well as the suppression of acts that hurt and endanger man and other fundamental social values". As we know to all who are dealing with the law that the purpose of committing criminal sanctions is multiple, and repressive and preventive and reintegration, however, we should consider the reasons why criminal sanctions are being carried out, as well as the reasons why criminal convictions are ever going to take place. One of the basic purposes of criminal law is to defuse and deter potential crimes. Therefore, protecting man and fundamental social values is the purpose of criminal sanctions which should be highlighted by this law. In an explanation of the Government which explains why the amendment was rejected, the Government does not accept the amendment for the reason it is complemented by Article 2. The draft law proposed by the amendment is already covered by the concept of the general purpose of criminal sanctions, so further precision is not necessary. We have proposed an amendment because we believe it is precisely necessary, because the increase in violence and crimes against family, violence against women and at all other crimes in society shows that it is necessary to specify and clarify the purpose of sanctions in order to achieve its objective, to achieve the objective. We've had a case lately that there have been several returnees of crimes who have done more serious crimes in return. It was also after the last amnesty that the President of the Republic did, so we had returnees who were convicted of minor crimes, and then committed the murder. In order to prevent all of this, we believe that we need to supplement this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1711	The word is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1712	I'm using the time of my authorised representative. The Honored Chairman, Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – The New Democratic Party, together with Serbia and Green Serbia, said in a principle debate that on the basis of the minister and government's relations, we would give a final assessment of whether we would support this set of laws. So, and the set that we are discussing today and the set that we are likely to discuss in the follow-up today or tomorrow's debate. It's mostly a set of judicial laws. I must say immediately that we are not satisfied with the number of amendments accepted, but that the minister has followed some of our proposals and therefore there is the possibility that in the voting day we can support these laws. Unfortunately, we did not have such opportunities in the term of this government, because we mostly had bad laws coming in our way, inadequately prepared and ministers who had no understanding of our amendments, as was the case yesterday with the Law on National Councils, i.e. with amendments to the Law on National Councils. When it comes to this particular amendment, of course we think that you should have accepted this debate of our motion on resociation. That's a word we've said very often in previous discussions, because every exit of a convicted person from prison means that he needs to start a new life, go back to a job he's done before, or find another job. Some of them in prison units are learning some trade, overqualified, requalified. But they're waiting for the street, which is where we have the process of resociation, we could say, I don't know, Minister, whether you agree with me, dead or not. In that sense, certainly in the next period we must all work more on that plan. On the other hand, we need to be careful who we put on the street and give us an answer to the question we ask for which one knows which time – how are those with 50 criminal charges on the street? What about the procession of those faces? One of these faces has also been fatally injured these days, noting that it was one of the faces that the President of the Republic amnested, which came out before time. I don't need to predict and I shouldn't be a prophet, but it's possible that we had a better process of resociation, that that face would be alive, and it's possible that that face would have been alive if it had stayed in prison. What a strange game of fate. So we ask very, very serious questions, not wanting in any way, we even have a good intention of supporting these laws and we think that they are not at least bad, but the application of the law, which we warn you about, is very low-level. Once again, I remind you of our call to discuss the application of the law and to try to get the authorities that are obliged to enforce the law, including the judges that we did yesterday, or the president of the courts that we appointed by emergency procedure yesterday, to a big surprise at our NDS MP's club, because we had two hours to read the biographies of over a hundred people we were supposed to see yesterday and see if those persons were really adequate and whether we were putting them in places that require a high degree of responsibility. That is why I believe, Minister, that you still have time to accept this amendment by colleague Malovic and colleague Biljana Hasanovic. Of course, we'll get involved in the debate on the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1713	Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Biljana Hasanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1714	Article 19. The draft laws prescribe services in institutions, i.e. types of services, and are said to have the following services: treatment services, security services, training and employment services, health care services and general services. It is said in point 2 – for two or more institutions, common services can be educated. The amendment provides for the addition of sections 3 and 4 to Section 2 which reads – the institution must have a separate room for the separation of sick convicts and women's offices with special equipment for the treatment of pregnant women, maternity and sick women. The current law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions has provided for these provisions and it is necessary to provide for this proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions in a way that guarantees respect for the dignity of the person subject to criminal sanctions. Also, it is predicted that the convicted person is entitled to health care under general health care regulations. The reasons for the Government which refuses to amend are to call for the existence of special departments for these purposes in Articles 24(4) and 5, but we believe that this should also be foreseen in this article where the services are listed, so that there is no doubt whether they are special departments or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1715	The word is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1716	As regards the amendment submitted by my colleagues, I believe, if the previous law provided for such a, or similar provision, that there was no reason not to provide for it in the new law, especially if it is to go to prison conditions, i.e. in units in which criminal sanctions are imposed more humanely. Because it shouldn't be the fear of a person who suffers from sanctions, of criminal sanctions, of the conditions in the sanctions units, but of being deprived of liberty. I hope we agree on that. I believe there is now more fear than the conditions that rule in those units than the fact that they will be deprived of freedom. In these units, not so often end persons who have not committed crimes of intent. There are persons who have committed felony crimes, crimes committed by premeditation, encouraging the other, and on the other hand, crimes in the area of traffic where it is very difficult to make a serious difference between neglect and intent. Especially when it comes to the maintenance of women’s sentences, i.e. in this case pregnant women or women who have a particular need for medical attention. It would be necessary to prescribe conditions, to prescribe measures that would allow these units to create these conditions in some future period, that those who are required to implement this law are bound to do so. Whether that obligation will be fulfilled after six months, or from the beginning of the application of this law to the end, I am not sure. In any case, we should go to this more humane way of maintaining sanctions in which Western Europe has far removed and the fact that women could protect their health in these places and come home in a state where their health will not be affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1717	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would very much like to accept this amendment, I have read it carefully, if it contains another attitude and I think we all made a little bit of a mistake here. As regards the availability of special rooms, equipment, etc. I think it is necessary in prisons to provide a special room for political meetings between party leaders and their authorities. So I think that would be the most popular thing for the people, and in my opinion, such a room would be very necessary, very necessary, very useful. It's possible that this room should be with three or four locks, so whoever remembers the numbers and the codes should call for us to fast it from that special room. Let's just say that there could be some fancy suits sewing around, and then the boats from the Pontorian engineering, and all of a sudden, they're gone, and they're soaked in expensive suits. Let’s say that many even think that they did not act against the law but only respected the party’s statute and programme. That was the statute and program of the party and they think they're above the law. Therefore, it would be necessary for the closures to be provided to such rooms for the needs that I have already mentioned, and I would accept this amendment only if it contained that third position, i.e. that possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1719	The word is Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1720	Look, Mr. Minister, you laughed sweetly during this discussion. I don't think that's like you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1721	Excuse me, were you looking for a replica or are you speaking to a minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1722	I asked for a replica to speak to the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1723	No, the replica can only be given to the speaker who mentioned you, the minister did not participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1724	Yes, during Mr. Risticevic's discussion...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1725	Would you please just tell me if you asked for a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1726	Yeah, I was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1727	All right, just to talk to Mr. Risticevic. Thank you, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1728	That's right. The MP who spoke earlier had a very interesting proposal that sparked laughter with Minister Selakovic. I don't think today is the place or the time...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1729	It's not a replica. I'm sorry, I have to take away your line, because this really isn't a replica. That's what you see for yourself. Just because of the day you're talking about, please don't abuse it, and everyone's going to try really hard not to show up at all. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1730	Reporting under Article 104. So, he says, if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself on a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group by citing his name and name or function, that is to say, wrongly interpreting, etc. I have not listed anyone's name, name, function, or so on, I have spoken in general about political parties and about the rooms that are necessary in prisons to open up certain politicians who have led the country to a general disaster and led us to the fact that many of us today represent an empty pocket, an empty pocket, poverty, and poverty, in order to separate them in these rooms, to examine our programme and statutes. I have not attributed it to any political party for one moment, to any political leader. I'm not asking you to vote on this because I have an understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1731	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. I ask all MPs, especially to respect today as a day of mourning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1732	Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1733	He can't do it on the same basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1734	My call to Article 104 is to address Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1735	I'm sorry, MP, you can't hurt the Rules of Procedure by the same article. According to our Rules of Procedure, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1736	I point to a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly on one basis, and Mr. MP is on another basis. So don't interpret it the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1737	The President of the National Assembly shall decide on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article. Please, the replica is not possible in this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1738	Please talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1739	Yes, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I really said you couldn't do the same article. Do you want to get into a very unpleasant dialogue?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1740	All right, Article 27, way to run the session. Your Honored chairman, I think your holding a session is such that it endangers the rights of MPs and that you do not have equal treatment for MPs of position and opposition. First of all, you're interpreting the Rules of Procedure as no one has ever interpreted him. So, calling the same member, and the second occasion is quite different. I have advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the fact that Mr Risticevic, at today's session, injured the Parliament's dignity because he treated both the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia in a far-fetched manner. Because if he had intended to propose an amendment to which political prisoners would gather in cell closures at political meetings.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1741	Please, now you've crossed the line. Thank you. Do you want an explanation? On Article 103(3), therefore, the right of the President to decide whether or not, that the MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly which has already been indicated. Both MPs called on an entire member of the Rules of Procedure to whom they felt the injury had been committed. Please, MP Veselinovic, does he want us to vote in Voting Day? (Yes) We're done with this. There were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. It was not possible to carry out a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, two minutes. Please be collegiate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1742	Madam Chairman, thank you. I'm advertising Article 103(2). You did not answer your fellow MP correctly. According to this, the MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the president of the National Assembly that has already been indicated, and so on goes Article 104, the right to go on the line...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1743	That's what we discussed. I ask Ambassador Marijan Risticevic to behave equally.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1744	Wait a minute. Here, Article 107(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1745	He can't. Here, my colleagues give me the right. We're moving on to work. It'll be time for the chairman to break the Rules of Procedure, don't speak at the same time. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1746	Mr. Minister, what I said earlier, I will now further explain. I think full resociation involves the responsibility of the state, the seriousness of the state and the fair attitude towards the convicts. We cannot declare ourselves to be humane, as so far has been said often, and in practice something else is happening. This is how all developed countries of the world work and have more severe criminal sanctions. We're like right-wing men who know what the state is, often for even more severe criminal sanctions, you're witnesses to that, when we've endured a series of amendments, say, for multiple returnees, rapists, etc., etc. But according to that, what needs to be done by the state. counterpart Olgica Batic has suggested that the health care service performs health prevention, treats convicted and detained persons, monitors hygiene and quality of food and water and participates in establishing and implementing a programme of treatment for citizens. I don't think anyone here has mentioned these two essential items, perhaps most importantly here, because the law of this is being touched in some other members, so hygiene and food quality. If you examine convicts, you will find that they are often dissatisfied with the quality of food, that there is not enough meat, fruit, candy, that it is not good enough water quality, and that the state, if it does not provide the convict and asks him to meet certain obligations and wants him to truly change it for the better, then it will not in practice live in the way that we all want it to. I think the government is right about the answer that two doctors and four medical technicians who are supposed to have every institution, one psychiatrist, one dentist, that it's too bulky. She probably won't be angry with counterpart Olgica Batic for me in this way interpreting the government's response, but there seems to be a solution for all the above-mentioned medical experts to be available for more institutions. So, literally, in one office, all those people are placed and where there are fewer convicts and where there is no need to keep faces and specialities present, to simply be available, and that's something I take for myself for freedom as an interdepartment. counterpart Olgica Batic also deals with the problem of separating a special room for the care of pregnant women, maternity and treatment of women. I've made a similar amendment. It is true that another member of the law predicts that children who are separated from mothers have conditions that must also have kindergartens, i.e. children's institutions, which is quite fine and should be so, but it seems to me that the mother's position has been neglected. We're also talking about pregnant women and births, and the law says they're separated into a special room, but it doesn't go any further, what if it separates into a special room, which is a special room? A special room could be a hallway, could be a cell, could be some office, some third room, but it seems to us that in these special rooms all the necessary conditions, specific, for the position of pregnant women, maternity, when they're in such situations. There's also talk of the separation of convicts with specific diseases, especially infectious diseases. I know you do it in practice. And of course we don't need doctors to learn the basics of medicine, but the excess head doesn't hurt. Maybe it's not bad to make it a strict commitment, because if you don't prescribe it, there's always the possibility that in practice it's said that the law didn't prescribe it. Of course, I know that this is very rarely happening in practice, but because of the fact that in our prisons they occur from time to time of such a disease, I would mention especially ‘hepatitis c’ and ‘hepatitis b’, that we have a lot of drug addicts, that the relationship with minors is often inappropriate, because there are not enough psychiatrists and psychologists who work with them but there is one exaggerated model which is a relic of some other time when a minor complains that he has certain mental problems, it is simply that ‘bensedin’, as they say, ‘send us to the bends and we sleep’. It's not a cure at all, it's just a cover-up of what really exists. I think the government is quite right in its answer, too, but I think this additional clarification has also affected your understanding of what the applicants are up to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1747	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1748	The Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, with respect to the proposing's efforts and his desire to regulate the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, my opinion on this amendment is as follows. First of all, I think this area is already regulated by its primary law, the Health Protection Act. More specifically, Article 54 of this Law laid down in Article 2 of the Law that health care and health care are at all carried out in institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions. Namely, I will read Article 54(2), which states: “Employment of social protection, institutions for the enforcement of office sanctions, as well as other legal persons for whom a special law provides for certain health care tasks, may carry out health care activities if the ministry determines that they meet the conditions for a particular type of health institution, i.e. the conditions for a particular type of private practice. “ Also, what is very important and relates to the part of the amendment that describes the conditions for performing health care or health care, we can say that this area is already governed by the Health Protection and Sublaw Act. Here, first of all, I'm thinking about the Regulation on the near conditions of performing health care. I have another objection regarding this amendment. In the position of the 6th of this amendment, the Proposer used the word ‘gynecologist of the obstetrician’, which is a jargon term. It should say: “Gynaecology and obstetrics specialist. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1749	Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1750	My amendment reads that after entering the office, the convicted is referred to in the reception department where the maximum length of 30 days can be kept and words are added - on admission to the office, the criminal, psychological, sociological and other examinations of the person convicted for his classification and treatment, continue to add a new view that the classification will necessarily require the separation of multiple returnees showing a tendency to commit criminal acts. I agree largely with the government's response, no matter what I suggest. I'm saying, it's listed in some of the solutions in the parallel legislation. It's not so decadent, but when it's dismembered in other ways, it's obvious that we're thinking the same thing. My intention was simply to define it this way because of the fact that we don't have in all institutions a person who performs criminal, psychological, sociological and other examinations of a person in the reporting of convicts to the execution of a prison sentence. Of course, all other experts, each in their own domain, participate in data collection for the classification of convicts and for the application of the program of conduct, but this seems to be the first measure, the first seriousness shown by the state in the reception of convicts. Second, the method of judicial psychiatry, critical assessment of subjects, the determination of mental processes of importance for the programme of conduct from the identification of various disorders not identified in the court procedure, because it was not the subject, from the disturbances of attention, the memory of personality, the determination of motivation of criminal behavior, the etiology of criminal behaviour, external statements, mental events, the determination of general psychology of the accused, then observation as a motive of examination in judicial psychology, etc. It seems to me that with criminal research, which includes many criminological methods and disciplines, the way, the way, the process and the means to explore and identify certain facts of importance for later action. As for the separation of multiple returnees, there is no clear response from the government, but, I say, this way of separating multiple returnees exists already in some legislation, and I think it gives me good results. Here's an example of what statistics say about us. From 45 per cent to 50 per cent of rape convicts in Serbia, he reiterates rape after leaving prison. That's one of the reasons why we as a member group were looking for chemical castration for multiple returnees, rapists. The crime of stealing repeats 70% of the perpetrators. The guilty act of fraud repeats 65% of the perpetrators. The criminal act of selling and producing intoxicating drugs repeats 60% of the perpetrators. This is proof that there were no specific and specific programs in the institutions, or those programs did not give the desired results to the person. Again, so that it's not all the responsibility of the state, simply, it's happening all over the world. In all the world there are, regardless of the best treatment programmes and best work with convicts, people who are literally irreparable. What's our common intention is to narrow it down to as little as possible. In some cases alone, convicts have increased work with a psychiatrist. If we mention rapists, they're very quickly transformed when they leave the institution from lamb skin to tiger skin and always use the appropriate opportunity to carry out a new attack on the victim. The reasons are very complex, from psychological, social, to psychiatric. That's why I don't think it'd be too bad to specify that it's the institution's obligation to carry out all these tests, no matter how many other members of the law do this, if we analyze it, they really cite it and regulate it, but they don't prescribe it this decadently in the way that I suggested it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1751	Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Bosnjak. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1752	I have submitted an amendment to Article 79 of this Law, which defines the standards of detentionees in detention units, and you, Ministers, and your associates, please step out of the legal way of thinking only for a moment, to hold out the technicality of this amendment. This amendment provides for a minimum four squares of living space per detainee in the detention unit. My amendment is to resolve the dilemma of impossible mating, that is, the ill-driving of Cuba. This member has prescribed that the minimum cubicity is eight squares, from which we consider that enough is the height of space and of two meters. My thinking was how to redefine this member, and to make it or by the regulations I know and respect in the moments I design, and I told you that I was involved on several occasions in designing detention units. So, how do we redefine it and keep it in line with the regulations that apply to designing and living in detention units? I don't think we need any European commissions to manipulate this law and tell us that we think that two meters is enough altitude for the room where the detainees are staying. I had two variants – or should I suggest that, in accordance with the regulations, I redefine the cube, so that on four minimum squares, I write that it is 9.45, if I think that 2.45 or 2.40 is enough for the height of the room in which the detainees are staying or what I suggest as an amendment, to rule out the minimal cubicity. In a conversation with the director of the Department of Criminal Sanctions, in a conversation with the director of Belgrade's district prison, I found it more appropriate to leave it in the area's law because of the current situation. I sincerely hope that our detainees will not stay in detention units that are two metres tall, and the determinations are eight and four, not four or eight, so that we have an alternative to the minimum standard of detention, but as defined in the article, it follows consistently that we are designing and we believe that our detainees should live in rooms that are two meters high, and I ask you to find a way. I ask all MPs to consider that the best technical intention was to redefine this member. Otherwise, a European Commission will tell us that we believe that the level of design of the detention unit is recommended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1753	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1754	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Madam Chairman, I will vote in favour of this amendment, given that it is about what I stood for in my previous presentations. So, I did not advocate political prisoners, but, given that height is very important, because it is expected that some of the high figures in the policy sphere are due to work, and above all, the misdemeanors committed over the national economy and the state, given that they are expected to arrive at the institutions that we are discussing today, during the execution of these sanctions, they need an adequate height necessary for the proper space. It's not a newspaper. During the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the prisoners of the Communist Party, so I'm not talking about any party here, I'm talking about all the parties and all the politicians, or all the possible perpetrators of the crimes, those who committed it and those who could execute them in some future. Thus, one law is not only brought about to punish those who have committed an act or a misdemeanor, but also to prevent the act from being carried out by others, or another act from being repeated. So that's what punishment is all about. It's not just punishment to punish, it's to prevent that from happening again. In view of this, given that politics has fundamentally robbed this country, given that some high figures have done so, I think that the cubicity and height are very important, given that they should be enabled, as communists did before the war, to continue to do some of their political work, the programme of their parties, the programme of their executive committees, and possibly, if possible, in accordance with the law, to allow them to call in a session of their organs, given that some there will be almost 100% represented, or that party bodies will be in those places. That's what I was talking about. I never mentioned the name of any party, I didn't advocate sanctions to impose political sanctions and create political prisoners, but I'm afraid some law professors are so professional that they wouldn't even pass an admission exam at their university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1755	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1756	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group sees this amendment as affirmative for several reasons. The first precision in the formulation of this standard, i.e. the member, on the other hand, is the standardisation that we must approach in order to respect those standards imposed by the EU, and on the third hand, what is undoubtedly the most important in the view of the SPS parliamentary group, this is respect for the rights of the person who maintains the prison in terms of meeting those basic elemental conditions, particularly the conditions of humanity, as regards the maintenance of the prison sentence in the rooms that are intended for it. However, the SPS parliamentary group is both conscious and those so-called. limiting reasons, primarily the reasons that relate to the capacity of our criminal and correctional institutions, or the facilities in which the penalties are maintained. Since a formulation of at least eight cubic metres and four square meters of space is mentioned here, at least some kind of disposition, which is in some way binding for those who determine the accommodation, as well as conditions for maintaining the fine. In that situation, it would be good to make some kind of recommendation without this member changing, given those other limiting reasons, but to make recommendations to those who run criminal and correctional seductions, which are managers, that this kind of standardisation, where possible, is necessarily met, and where it is not, to meet the moment when conditions are obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1757	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1758	Chairman, I would like to ask, since I have also come forward for the previous amendment of Parliament, Branka Bosnjak, to allow me, you can turn down time from the time of the parliamentary group to talk about this amendment. In the same way, our parliamentary group is thinking as the applicant of this amendment, and in the same way confirms colleague Neđo Jovanovic, who is an experienced lawyer and knows what we are talking about. What exists in practice is that by 2000 the situation in our prisons was catastrophic and that the number of convicts was lower. After 2000, the situation in prisons improved year after year. Institutions, institutions for the enforcement of criminal sanctions and European observers and NGOs have been opened. The Department of Justice has been very involved here, but what's a fact that we all need to be aware is that we haven't received a positive transitional grade yet. With the Law of Amnesty passed, with the adoption of the Law on the implementation of criminal sanctions, but at the same time with the stricter fight of the state against corruption and crime, no one can judge exactly in the future how many convicts they will be. But what's the fact that we have to meet certain standards, exactly with the basic principle that I've talked about before, is that the first state has to do what's up to it, and then ask the citizens to meet their obligations. If we're keeping prisoners in really inhumane conditions, and prisons are overcrowded not by the Ministry's guilt, but by the legacy, then we have to do it properly in the future and according to certain standards. As regards amendments to Article 114, which I have submitted and which I propose that doctors are obliged to treat or feed convicts with respect for the medical ethics and personality of convicts, with the obligation that doctors must maintain objectivity in their estimates and must not allow them to be subjected to pressure to violate ethical principles and medical judgment, especially in the application of medical emergency measures, with simultaneous medical control mechanisms. I think the government in its response is right, that all of this is regulated in some other laws and as far as the medical ethical code is concerned, and that the ministry is constantly monitoring. This is one reference norm. Again, I wanted something to be understood and something that exists in other laws to be briefly and clearly listed in us, especially in the case of hunger strikes, refusal to take food, medicines, etc., where doctors are, and we know from practice, often put pressures on both when and when medical emergency measures are not needed. I'd just as soon refer to the treatment of pregnant women and maternity mothers. I think the law here is very much relevant to the needs of time, and it's very human in this part, as far as children are concerned. But I think the convicted women of maternity and pregnant women are missing the part that the law didn't prescribe that they should have rooms in which they were placed to meet certain conditions. They are mostly understood in medical terms and in the sense of medical care and are generally given special attention to these persons, but it is my intention to specify this law. Then when you show the convict both normally and in practice that the state has done as far as humanity is concerned, not only normatively, but in practice, only then can you ask the convicts to carry out their obligation and expect full resociation. I was alone several times in some EU countries 15 or 20 years ago, and upon arrival at the border, it is simple for customs and police officers to let you know that you have come to an orderly state, but at the same time, with welcome and open borders, they draw attention to your obligations. When you break, and the state makes it possible for you to do so, then there are really rigorous sanctions. It's a model of the functioning of a state that we want to see in practice. Thank you. I thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1759	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the honourable fellow MPs, has already been proposed by Article 114 of the amendment, which he has tabled under Article 114, and has explained about his position on the government's reasoning, but I have come to the floor and I will give my opinion on him. I'm reporting for similar reasons as the last time, so, for the previous amendment I've discussed. I believe that this area is already detailed by the primary law on this area, which is the Health Protection Act. First of all, the Members of 169th and 170th of this law describe in detail the relationship of health care professionals to the patient. I'll read it. "Health workers carry out health work in accordance with the current health doctrine and in accordance with the Code of Professional Ethics. For their work, healthcare professionals take on professional, ethical, criminal and material responsibility. Health care professionals with high school training, as referred to in Article 166 of point 1 of this law, are obliged to sign a statement, an oath to adhere to the principles set out in the Hippocrates' oath, as well as to the principles of professional ethics when receiving a degree in completed education." In the following position, the law states that "the health workers referred to in Article 166(2) of this Act, namely health associates, are obliged to sign a statement when establishing a working relationship, an oath to adhere to the principles set out in the Hippocratic oath, as well as the principles of professional ethics in carrying out their call." The very position in this amendment that speaks, I quote, "that not all can be given to the discretionary assessment of doctors" I do not think it stands because absolutely nothing is left to the discretionary evaluation of doctors, but is clearly arranged by the Health Protection Act, regardless of whether the patient is at the detention of the prison in the prison office for the maintenance of prison sanctions or in the home of health, therefore, at large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1760	The 130th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1761	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 130 of this bill, which we propose to add the position 4 following Article 3 - the appeal to the decision of the director of the administration does not delay the implementation of the solution. Namely, Article 130 provides for the transfer of the convicted person and in paragraph 1 says – the director of the administration may, under the proposal of the Head of the Office, transfer the convicted person from one office to the other when justified by the implementation of the programme of conduct or maintenance of order and security in the office. In Article 2(2), the Director of the Administration may, for reasons of security, relocate the convicted under official duty. These reasons indicate that these transfer procedures are very urgent. I don't think there should be a dilemma, so it should be specified and put the appeal on the transfer decision not to delay the execution. In the statement of reasons of the Government, which rejects the amendment, it is called for in Article 40(3) of this proposal to regulate the handling of the appeal against the decision of the Head of the Office and Director of the Administration and that is one general provision. Given the urgency of the reason for the transfer in this case, we felt that we should also point out here that the appeal does not delay the execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1762	The People's MP, Dr Janko Veselinovic, came forward after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1763	The chairman thinks the conditions have been met for a serious debate and the minister is in agreement. Minister, I think this issue deserves attention, but I will try to open another topic that is related to the execution of sanctions and the role of directors and administrations in the procedure for the execution of sanctions and occurrences, to call them that, which happens during the execution of sanctions. In fact, it is very important that we talk about trust in the director of the administration and our amendment goes to the fact that the decision of the director should be implemented without delay, but to do so, it is certain that in the chain of enforcement of sanctions we must have people responsible for the tasks they do, people of the profession, people of morality and people who have not so far had some abuses, because it happens very often and you probably get these complaints, and we have had the opportunity to see complaints of prisoners, persons at the execution of criminal sanctions, who complain about unfair treatment in institutions for the execution of sanctions by responsible persons in those institutions. I want to take this opportunity to point out that in this sense, you have our support that, even in the areas where sanctions are carried out, there must be justice and justice and there must be equal treatment for all persons regardless of what their material situation is that they have entered the place where they enforce sanctions, regardless of whether they have outside the gates of those institutions and whether they have support for them or whether they belong to a political stranger or any other group. In that sense, I think you should accept this amendment, but for this amendment to make sense, that would mean that you have people of integrity in all the institutions for the execution of sanctions. I'm not sure it's like that everywhere, or I'm not sure the whole structure in the sanctioning facilities is that. I think it deserves a special attention. Probably in these procedures when you are more focused on law-making, and less on the analysis of the implementation of these laws, the adoption of this law and the preparation of sublegal acts for its implementation creates good conditions for you to deal with these structural issues as well as the way in which the institutions for the execution of sanctions are conducted, so who are managers, so to speak, these institutions, and who are the people who decide, in some way, about the fates of the people who have found themselves on the other side of the lock of those institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1764	The People's MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I could not understand with my best will the explanation of my fellow Members, Veselinović, because the amendment of the MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac to Article 130. The bill says that I am not quoting the entire amendment, that the appeal to the director of the administration's decision does not delay the execution of the solution, and the colleague has talked about the fact that the minister and director of the administration's enforcement sanctions should make sure that prison managers, i.e. institutions for the enforcement of the sanctions must be people of integrity. I agree with that, but I don't see the connection between the reasons for the amendment and the very text of the amendment. That's one thing. The second thing, I think the government's arguments are very logical. It seems to me that fellow opposition colleagues have tried to write amendments to create the impression that they are more concerned about the conditions in Serbian prison than the Ministry does and than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does, and then, with one skillful, more or less skillful, the technique of writing amendments, they try to make an impression on citizens that the bill does not write anything, but actually writes. I think the government explained it in a very precise way. Therefore, there is no need to add a new Article 4 in Article 130, which reads as follows: “A complaint to the Director of the Administration’s decision does not delay the execution of the solution”, when previously in Article 40(3). The draft law already provides that a timely appeal against a decision, a decision in terms of a solution as an individual act, an administrator of an office or a director of a administration, does not retain the enforcement of the decision. I answered the word simply so as not to create the wrong impression in the public that opposition colleagues are more concerned about the general and special prevention of crime, that they care more about the conditions in our prisons, that they are more concerned about the resociation of the perpetrators' crimes, than does the Ministry of Justice or what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does. Of course, the SNS in no way question the right of opposition MPs to write amendments, but it seems to me that their reasoning is too strained, too artificial, and that the amendment itself has nothing to do with the reasoning itself. I will take this opportunity to say that the SNS parliamentary group believes that the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions is really written very well, that its provisions will absolutely achieve the purpose of what this law is meant to achieve, and that is prevention and general and individual...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1766	Please, just speak for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1767	So I'm talking about the amendment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1768	I know, but you're starting to talk about the law in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1769	I think that the bill is well written and that it achieves what this type of law should achieve, and that is to prevent the execution of crimes in general and of course in individual cases, and that means in the ultimate line preventing the return to the execution of crimes. Just one more thing I want to point out, so you don't get the wrong impression in public. So here today it was said that the President of the Republic had given amnesty to certain convicts, or perpetrators of criminal acts. Legally speaking, you're wrong. Amnesty is given by the National Assembly through law, the President of the Republic has pardoned a number of convicts. But the SNS doesn't see the connection between the fact that the President of the Republic has pardoned a number of convicts for the fact that one of them has committed another crime. Why do I say that? Because there is absolutely no guarantee that when you pardon someone, he will not do the same thing or any other crime in the near future. If such a guarantee existed that one who was pardoned would again commit a crime, then I think that the Constitution and the laws of any civilized and democratic state would know neither the amnesty institute nor the pardon institute. Again, it seems to me, when we talk about this act of the President of the Republic concerning pardon, not amnesty, that in some way the blame for the fact that in Serbia there is an apparent problem with a high crime rate in some way is being transferred to someone who, in practice, has the least role in this fight against crime by the Constitution, which is the President of the Republic. I'm gonna do it again and I'm gonna end it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1770	Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1771	Here I come, Mr. Chairman, you don't have to be very angry with me. I'm not gonna take up any more of your time. I repeat, the bill is good. After all, and colleagues from the parliamentary groups that are part of it, to say the ruling SNS coalition. If you've been following their amendments a little bit, it can be read between the lines that the government was right when it refused their amendments. The fundamental bill has nothing to object to and the SNS will support this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1772	Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1773	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I think he's a injured member of 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You, Mr. Chairman, I think you did the right thing when you warned the previous speaker not to speak about the agenda point, and to return to the agenda point, but you also did not warn him that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The preparation of amendments to the draft laws is part of our parliamentary practice. Here the previous speaker, with a mockery, spoke about how opposition MPs here refer to that part of parliamentary practice. I believe it demeans the dignity of the MPs and the National Assembly, and I suggest you warn the previous MP, on the basis of Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1774	Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. (Employee Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes. ) The People's MP Janko Veselinović reported on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1775	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, to commend and to say that I appreciate your equal attitude towards MPs and positions and opposition, and I think you should be more critical of your position. On the other hand, when it comes to the presentation of a respected colleague, Martinovic, in a good part I agree with counterpart Martinovic that the law has certain qualities. We did not say that the law is excellent, but we can say that the laws are not bad and that our parliamentary group will take into account and the attitude towards these amendments in the voting day most likely support these laws, but we are in conflict with the minister, or the government on how to enforce these laws, and here we are talking about the enforcement of certain laws, or the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Col. Martinovic spoke about our concern, whether we have greater care for those persons or the law enforcement compared to ministers. I can hardly put that worry on the cantar, because it's just hard to measure care. We're just talking about the effects, the results, and we're saying that socialization is unsuccessful, insufficient. I think the minister would agree on that, and we believe that law enforcement is, or the possibility of justice in our country is very, very difficult to say that it is quality, justice is sometimes unattainable. Even sometimes inaccessible. In that sense, we support the government's efforts to change that. However, in our past experience, we have no confirmation that this is happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1776	Time. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1777	You're right, Mr. Martinovic, it's true, the president gives a pardon. Today I wanted to spare a little minister and not put the whole burden on him, regarding the law on amnesty...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1778	Replication time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1779	It is true that the Law on Amnesty has been passed by the Government and the President has been pardoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1780	Thank you. The People's MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I didn't, at least I think it's funny, and with ridicule, I treated anyone and any applicant of the amendment, and I tried, as far as I can and know, to take this matter seriously. As for the resociation, which was discussed by my esteemed colleague, Veselinovic, I took an exam at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad called "Criminity Prevention Policy". By learning and preparing the exam from the case, I learned that the resociation of the person who committed the crime is not only a problem of the Criminal Penal Code, that it is not only a problem of the warden of the prison, that it is not just a problem, after all, of the state. In countering crime on the one hand, on the other hand, many other social factors play a role in the resociation of a person. First of all, families, schools, churches and religious communities, the media, all these institutions, all these social life subjects have their part in resociation. I do not agree with your general view that the resociation of convicted persons in Serbia is absolutely unsuccessful. You can't say that at all. We can talk about individual situations. In some cases, resociation has not really occurred, but in many cases it has. If we were to say that there was absolutely no resociation of the person who committed a crime, then that would mean that our not only criminal sanctioning system, the whole criminal justice system, not to say the whole social system, absolutely does not work, which is one assessment, which, with all due respect to your right to be oppositional towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia, simply cannot be given. What I'm trying to say is that the problem of countering crime, on the other hand of preventing, that is, preventing the repeat of criminal acts, which means in fact the resociation of persons who have committed crimes, that this problem must be approached in depth, systemically and that it's not just the subject of this law. [[Chairman: Please, time for replication is up.]] The problem is much more complex than it looks now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1782	Thank you. Please, MP Janko Veselinović, I will not give you the right to a replica. I'm closing a circle of replicas. You'll have a chance to tell this member what you wanted. On Article 132 of the amendment, the National MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic-Korac submitted together. The government and the judiciary, state administration and local self-government have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic-Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1783	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is one of the six amendments that my colleague and I have submitted to this bill, to this large bill of law, only six amendments, I don't think it's much. This is what we felt, based on our knowledge and practice in the area of law, that it should be complemented or amended in order to improve the text of the law. I didn't say the bill was wrong, but we're trying to influence these amendments to improve the text as we think and as we see it. If we wanted to act destructively, then we would have done as the opposition does in some cases, and submitted amendments that read – the member and the one deleted, the member and the one deleted. We tried to make constructive suggestions. This amendment is very similar to the previous amendment and we propose that Article 132 after Article 2 of Article 3 which reads - the appeal against the decision of the Director of the Administration does not delay the execution of the solution, because Article 132 speaks of the suspension of the sentence by the Director of the Administration and says – to the application of the convicted or proposal of the Director of the Administration's Office, the Director of the Administration may approve the suspension of the sentence of imprisonment if the reasons laid down in Article 59(1) of this Act arises which could delay its execution. In order to get to know better those who are not concerned with law, I must say that Article 59(1) states: “The execution of a prison sentence may be delayed if the convicted suffers from severe acute illness while the disease persists or if the condition of a convicted person deteriorates significantly and there are no conditions for treatment in the office or in a special hospital. ” This is also an emergency, and that is why we felt that because of the urgency and here, we should stress that the appeal does not delay the execution of the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1784	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1785	I hope you're giving me a word on the deal we had earlier. When it comes to the presentation of my esteemed colleague Martinovic, we studied the subject at the same university, and we teach the right at the same university, the truth of different areas, but of course, there are usually two different opinions between the two lawyers. In this sense, I'm going to confirm a certain point of view. First, I didn't say there was an absolute failure in resociation. So I didn't use the word absolute, but I used the word "failing resociation." Secondly, resociation is successful for certain reasons. In some cases, thanks to the family, thanks to schools, churches or religious communities. Mr. Martinovic said that resociation is being conducted, along with the state should include family, school, church, religious community, social community, etc. I agree, but where's the state? I'm talking about the state's responsibility for resociation. In these laws, and generally in the policy of the state according to resociation, we are talking about the role of the state in resociation, of course and in encouraging all the factors of the resociation to help that resociation. Here we could ask how many of the 100 cases were successful in resociating the participation of the state, and how much was the participation of the other factors, and did someone successfully resociate because his family came to his aid, so they provided him with a possible job, supporting his right to work? Did the social community help him and how many good resociation cases in which the country played a key role? I'd like to hear that analysis, and I'd just like to look forward to those cases where the state was one of the main factors that some perpetrator of the crime after returning to freedom, after going out on the street resociated and became, as we say, a useful member of this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1786	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1787	Thank you, Chairman. You have violated the provision of Article 106(1). – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. We are currently discussing an amendment to Article 132 which has been tabled by colleagues and which reads: "The appeal of the director of the administration's decision does not delay the execution of the solution". We've just heard from a former colleague who spoke about where he studied, where he teaches, about resociation, or what's not on the agenda right now. Please keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1788	Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of Snezana Malović and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The People's Parliament of Biljana Hasanovic Korac reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1789	Thank you. With this amendment, my colleague and I have proposed that in Article 184 in the first sentence of Article 1, "six" be replaced by the word "three". Let me explain. The bill stipulates that the Director of the Criminal Sanctions Administration may temporarily fire the convicted from maintenance for a maximum period of six months until the end of the sentence, due to good conduct and results achieved in the programme of action. We felt that a more comprehensive and appropriate solution was to limit this discretionary right of the director of the administration to three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1790	Thank you. The 216th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1791	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have already said that the only fault of this bill is the procedure under which it is proposed to be an emergency procedure, and that in principle it is a solid bill. He would have had our support if it weren't for an emergency procedure that led to the possibility that there might be a chance that some minor deficiencies of corrections would be made through amendments. We have an example here and through our amendment to plan 270, where we suggest that a unit that would oversee the work of the office be removed from the prison sanctions administration and be part of the ministry, or part of the ministry outside the prison sanctions administration. I think it's a good solution that usually exists at the Ministry of the Interior, and that would prevent such a solution from practically the same people and from carrying out sanctions and controlling the enforcement of sanctions. Regardless of good intentions and good selection of personnel, it is certain that everywhere people work in the same organisational unit, conditions can be created to see one through the fingers, to misread some shortcomings together, and to miss out on them and to correct them. So, I think this amendment, i.e. the amendment itself, is good, is going towards further improvement of this law, so that the law can get even more at its own quality, and this may also lead to New Party MPs voting for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1792	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON EXECUTION OF EXECUTIVES AND MERE You have received an amendment submitted by the MPs Snezana Malović and Biljana Hasanovic Korac on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, Article 157 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1793	Thank you. On the proposal for a law on the enforcement of non-conductive sanctions and measures, we have submitted an amendment to Article 6 by adding a new position 3 in Article 6 after Article 2 which reads: “State authorities, banks, employers and other legal entities, institutions and organisations shall ensure, at the request of the trustees, access to the information available to certain persons to whom enforcement is carried out, which is necessary for the implementation of the enforcement.” In that case, the present attitudes 3 and 4 would become points 4 and 5. According to the draft law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, the establishment of a trust service is envisaged, and the operations of the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures are carried out through trust offices allocated to the territorial organisation of higher courts. There's a trustee at the head of the office. The bill provides that the trustee shall constitute an individual treatment programme for each person to whom the execution is carried out, based on an assessment of the personality, personal opportunities, health conditions, professional qualifications, risk assessment and the needs of the person to whom the execution is carried out. In order for the trustee to obtain the necessary data to form a program of conduct, it is necessary by law to oblige the state authorities, banks and other legal entities, institutions and organisations to supply the necessary information to the trustee. The results of the implementation of the programme depended on the resocialisation and reintegration of convicted persons into the social community and therefore we felt that such an amendment was justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1794	Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the CRIME PROCEDURE You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Olgica Batić, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Borislav Stefanović, Vera Martinović, Branka Karavidić and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, Article 157 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Nikola Selakovic spoke of the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1795	Amendments to the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government are hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1796	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 5th amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1797	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, was the theme of this amendment that all funds seized from criminals should be directed towards the treatment of children. When you say child healing, that's a broad term. I have specified in the amendment that it should be for the treatment of children who are not covered by the current and existing Regulation of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and for children who are very often in the public interest, where text messages collect donations to treat those children. I believe that at the beginning of the work of this government, and in the previous assembly of parliament, there have been many ideas on how to solve the problem of treating these children? How to solve the problem that we never have in Serbia any more parents of sick children who beg and beg for the treatment of their child, but that we have either one universal, humanitarian fund that would be directed only to cover the treatment of children abroad who are unable to be treated here in Serbia, or to have the Republic Health Insurance Fund cover the treatment of all of our children, as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides. I think that in addition to the goodwill that exists from blogger B92, from Sergei Trifunovic, from numerous human citizens of Serbia, all these initiatives have not yet produced the result that we have children covered, that every child has the right to be treated, that every child has the right to be diagnosed. With this amendment, I wanted all the funds taken from crime to be directed towards the treatment of children who do not have the help and support of the state, who are invisible to the Republic Fund and who often hit a wall of administration that has no hearing about their problems. As a doctor, I can tell you that in this House I rarely discuss as a politician and most often as a doctor. I think that we must finally find a solution and that this topic that is very important, a topic that has started this one human Serbia in various human actions and raised money for Tijana from the struggle of human Serbia for the treatment of small Tijana. Unfortunately, it was too late. A number of children also lost their lives because the administration rejected them because the administration didn't see them. Human Serbia, those citizens who are now and on the marches, these citizens who are fighting for a normal civilized, decent state of Serbia have fought and sent these messages. With this amendment, I felt that it was possible to channel this money from crime, most likely not enough, but to say, anything we take away from criminals will be directed to treat children who do not have the support of the state, who do not have the support of the current rules on sending children and treating children abroad. It is one big problem that I repeat and repeat, and this mandate of the MP is exactly what I dedicate in this one struggle to finally reach that degree of understanding, to realize that as much as we are poor, we need to find a way to look at all these children and to have the opportunity to treat them. A topic which, I hope, will be taken into consideration in the coming months, I think the President of the Republic Government is that in one exposé here and noted that a humanitarian fund will be made. It's just that I don't see any of those specific things. This could have been directed and that money could be said – it will be in the humanitarian fund, it will be at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice and that the Ministry of Health gives priority to the treatment of children – this child should have a priority and be treated. I have to tell you, as a doctor and as a parent, I'm very sad when I see a number of small patient situations that they're still in one vicious circle, one maze. I'm not saying it's been in the past year, year and a half, so the health care system's been collapsing for the last 20 years, and he's had one collapse in the last few years, which is a disaster, and where parents don't have a chance to treat children every day. The desire is precisely to try and here I am also using this opportunity, although it is a set of judicial laws to talk about the problems of some ordinary little people who can't get to Nis, Belgrade and Novi Sad to point out their problems, to treat their children. Then in that fight with one administration that is such as it is not currently very much money, although it's practically alienated from the people, you don't see their problems and I'm simply saying we don't have enough money or under the current regulation your diagnosis isn't meant to be financed. I believe that every diagnosis, every disease must have the support of the state and that every Republic government does not matter who runs that government, that it is a priority to allow every citizen to make a decent diagnosis, the dignified treatment of his child or himself. This is one of my appeals to try and solve this problem as soon as possible in the coming days. Floods are now the biggest problem, but I think this is a problem that has been going on for years, where many children lose their lives, with illness and their lives, just because they don't have the money to treat abroad, and they're also paying for health insurance, and they shouldn't pay for it, but health insurance to cover them. If that's not possible, then let's make one charity fund, make it possible for every child to have the right to be treated. I'll say that in many situations parents meet with positions that they can't make a good diagnosis. There's a lot of waiting to make that diagnosis, to waste time. Small, late Nadia of Vranja lost a lot of time in that one round of rejection of the first-degree commission... (President: Please return to the amendment) Yes, that's the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1798	The topic is very important, and I think it's of interest for the MPs to hear it, but please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1799	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So it's only a wish that we finally start talking about this problem that is evident, which is present. I believe that this is also an opportunity, you will explain why and why the amendment was rejected, but this is the topic we need to talk about and we need to find ways as poor as we are, it can't be an excuse to say that the state of Serbia has no opportunity to treat its citizens. It's by the Constitution, a constitutional category that guarantees you the right to be treated. That's exactly what I'm going to do, and in the next sessions, I'm going to use every opportunity to point out problems and ask the Republic Government and the Resort Ministry to find ways to solve these problems for parents who have sick children, who do not cover the existing RFO Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1800	Thank you. Minister Nikola Selakovic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1801	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would here, not waiting for the next amendment that, let's say, has the same purpose, I would take the opportunity here even though I intended to do so in the final word, to express my gratitude to the MPs and to Dr Dusan Milisavljevic and Bork Stefanovic of the DS on the amendments they have submitted and to make a clear note of why. Before this amendment, I have just accepted the amendment of the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the local self-government that is in fact achieving what you have proposed to us and proposed to these amendments. I thank you, because you have given this really a new quality and helped make what is said in the Prime Minister's exposé as soon as it begins in a certain way. We are often in a position to rephrase at committee meetings an amendment that would fit into the law. It is the apostle who shows his good will to raise the law to one higher level, but you will admit that whoever is a nomoch and who writes the law has a much better picture than all of us what the law as a whole represents and how much improvement it can be and how much damage it is. Given the particularly difficult situation in many sick children in Serbia whose treatment is not covered by the cost of RFZO, I would add young people, because the child is someone who is up to 14 years old. You have someone who may be 15 years old, and he's extremely ill, and his treatment costs aren't covered. For this very reason, the amendment, which was formulated by the committee, which I accepted, clearly states that it will be extremely from the attitudes of the 4th and 5th of this member, i.e. that the Commission may, at the request of the natural person, propose, without conducting a public competition, that the funds referred to in point 2 of Article 1 of this Article be allocated to the treatment of the child abroad if the means of treatment are not provided in the RFZO. The essence of your amendments has been retained, it has been achieved, it is segregated from that competitive procedure, as counterpart Olgica Batic spoke of it in a debate in principle. Often urgent action is required and you do not have time to conduct an entire competition that would take you 30, 40, 45 days, but what you have proposed was absolutely achieved by these amendments, both you and Mr Stefanovic and thank you for that, you have indeed completed this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure and given him a new dimension and quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1802	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1803	I would take the opportunity to thank you. I think when we talk about sick kids, there's no political affiliation here, we're all part of the same team, and this is the first time we've reached such co-operation and a common conclusion that this is a priority. I thank you on behalf of all of our sick citizens, especially sick children, I think this is one good way to work for a future period and I am glad that we have managed to reach one common goal together, and that is a priority that all of our children have the right to be treated and diagnosed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1804	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1805	The President-in-Office, I am pleased that Minister Selakovic, in some way, accepted this amendment essentially, not in this form, but in a different way. It's hard to say against such an amendment when it comes to the problems that we have about sick children, but it seems to me that someone here is already starting it politically for a little bit to abuse the question of sick children. I think sometimes you from the presidency should act. We can't abuse it for political purposes, because it seems to me to be very often done here. In time, someone here has passed a law of confiscation of property to persons who have committed crimes in the field of organised crime, so he has never thought of anything like this to put into such a law to make these property of these criminals, because the question is, where did these cars end up and everything that was taken away from them and could go to such humanitarian purposes. I would really like to ask you, there remains bitter taste in your mouth, that someone here is trying in a demagogue way and one child abuse for political purposes to achieve some political point, which is wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1806	The minister informed me that the amendment had accepted, only technically reformed, so it's all clear what it was about. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1807	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, the topic we are talking about, and regarding this amendment is very sensitive and difficult and I am absolutely in agreement and I personally do not think that it should be politicised. However, in the interest of the citizens who are watching this assembly session, I think it is my obligation to present not half-truths and partly the truth, but the fact of the situation, relating to funding, the treatment of patients with rare diseases. For the first time, funds from the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget for rare diseases amounted to 88m dinars. In 2013, these funds amounted to 130 million dinars, with a total of 280 million dinars in 2014. According to this data, we can say that there is a clear picture of whether the Ministry of Health and the people dealing with this problem are going to solve this problem. We see that the difference between 2013 and 2014 is more than double. What is also necessary is that we systematically address this problem of rare diseases and I agree with that. We can also discuss whether this amount of 280 million funds is enough or not, for the total number of people suffering from rare diseases, but about the intentions of both the Government and the Ministry of Health, we cannot talk, because we see a clear desire to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1808	I ask the MP to return to the amendment, so that we do not open the debate on something we are sure to discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1809	I'll be brief and apologize. So the Ministry of Health supported the initiative at the beginning of this year to provide another 120 million, through other sources of income, so I have to say that, in addition to confirming all this, it is also that additional fact. I'll return to the amendment. Absolutely agreeing with all the words of the Minister of Justice, concerning the acceptance of this amendment, because I believe, as has been shown in practice, that politics has no impact in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1810	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Vesna Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1811	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, as my dear colleague has already said, I will not particularly explain the amendment that has been accepted. I think it is very important and good that we have this practice in the future that what is proposed is important, and not who is proposing it, because I think we are on some issues concerning the treatment of sick children, all on the same mission, so I thank the promoter, as well as the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government, who formally proposed the same amendment as the amendment of fellow Members of Borko Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1812	The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1813	I'd just like to add that we've found some sources of income and some means to treat the children. I will give another suggestion, although it is not from your ministry's portfolio, the Resor of the Ministry of Health, where Mr. Laketić was an assistant minister, there are 230 cars available to 312 employees, and in the Republic of Croatia the Ministry of Health has only 33.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1814	I'm asking you about the amendment, and I've been begging the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1815	But it's an additional way to find the means to treat children. So 312 employees have 230 cars in the Ministry of Health and I don't think that's normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1816	The word has Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1817	I'm mentioned in the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1818	Replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1819	First of all, the latest moves, i.e. the initial moves of the new government, are in favour of what the relationship is and what the relationship will be with the state property, according to those cars you're talking about. I think that the very fact that many of the officials in the Serbian government are in more representative and significant functions, that they have lost the right to use cars, and are in favour of how much care there is about the costs that definitely existed in earlier periods. What surprises me, however, is one fact, how it is possible that opposition MPs are asking this government and the ministries for everything they never asked of themselves. How is it possible that simply for everything they're proposing now they've had more than enough time and opportunity to do it in a period of power, really do it all. I don't think it's politically correct and I think it's just the fact and everything we see, and it's misrepresentation and not accepting everything that's better and simply that in real life it's proven better, that it's not the right way. I repeat once again, the way this government is headed by the SNS, I really think it's something that will make a qualitative shift in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1820	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Vesna Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1821	Thank you. I have proposed that Article 5 provides for an explicit possibility for public competitions for the distribution of funds paid by suspects in the event of a delay in prosecution, to provide for the possibility for units of local self-government to participate in the competition, not by automatedism, and to target these funds on the budgets of local self-government, but to explicitly predict the possibility and that units of local self-government participate. Now, pursuant to Article 5, humanitarian organisations, funds, public institutions or other legal or natural persons under which a unit of local self-government could be subdued. But I think it would also be more useful to rule out any dilemma in interpreting regulations to provide for local self-government units as well. What is very important is that until these changes, practically local self-government units or humanitarian character organisations and institutions from their territory were exclusively users of these funds. I think that this way will further reduce the possibility of funding humanitarian organisations and institutions, which is exactly what your proposal is about, but I think predicting the possibility that the units of local self-government will participate, because they are in fact best aware of the needs of citizens in their territory, in order to contribute to the quality of the allocation of funds made available on the basis of the opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1822	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1823	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're just a little bit different from the interpretation of something. When a competitive procedure is carried out, and we have already completed one working version of the regulation that should be brought forward, so that we can apply it as soon as possible, and since the funds are collected from the delay of criminal prosecution, such a trend is somewhere in the modern world, absolutely directed to humanitarian purposes, the local self-government unit can certainly be found as a project applicant at the competition, and for the purposes of humanitarian organisations, public institutions, funds, etc., to avoid any possibility of abuse. Is that absolutely possible to avoid? Very difficult. But local self-government units can be found as a project promoter, for example, to renovate a home for carefree children, for old faces, for some block in a health center, for a hospital, for a home of health. We absolutely support it. But the units of local self-government will surely present them as something that is a humane purpose, for example, the restoration of the local plumbing. I think the circle of subjects is very cellularly listed and that its expansion would be harmful anyway. Harmful in the sense that we would enter into too many details that here in the law, in my opinion, are not necessary. Then why don't you put in health institutions, then why don't you put in social institutions and many, many others? I think it is quite enough when it is said – legal or physical faces, including local self-government. I think it would lead to another interpretation that would pop out of order of what we wanted to achieve. Basically, I think we have an identical approach to what we're trying to achieve here. But technically, I wouldn't agree that it should be taxed that local self-government is someone who's been assigned these funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1824	The 5th amendment with the correction was filed by MP Branko Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1825	Honored Presidents, Honored Ministers, Article 5. The law provides for the precision of Article 283. The Code of Criminal Procedure concerning the distribution of funds obtained from the defendant when applying the Institute of Disposal of Criminal Persecution. For the sake of more regular and transparent allocations of these funds, it is proposed that the funds be distributed through a public competition conducted by a special commission, which is educated by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. The same member is said to make a decision on the distribution of funds after the completion of the competition. In Article 5(2), in the new position of the 6th, which reads: "The implementation of the public competition, the criteria for the distribution of funds, the composition and mode of work of the Commission is governed by the act of the Minister for Justice Affairs", I added that after the words "the affairs of the judiciary" add the words "with the opinion of the Ministry of Health, Labour, Social Policy, Education and Culture", in the explanation we received from the Government, the acts adopted by the Government are prescribed by the Law on Government, and the procedure for preparing material for the cabinet's session, in which the obtaining of an opinion from the competent state authorities, is governed by the Government's Rules of Procedure, so there is no need to be further precision of the authorities of the state administration whose opinion is necessary to obtain, as is proposed by the amendment. Personally, I think that the proposed change, and especially with regard to criteria, will be better able to look at the priorities for the allocation of funds. It would therefore make it easier for the commission, which should make up the criteria and implement the competition, if the commission had the opinion of the ministries that I had cited before the construction of the commission. These are the Ministry of Health, Labour, Social Policy. I think both competition and criteria should show a dose of sensitivity to the most vulnerable, which are sick, socially endangered, unemployed, people with special needs, the best students, students, etc. Once again, I ask you to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1826	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW YOU RECOGNISATION You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic - Korać, Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićevic, Borislav Stefanović, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Martinović, as well as the amendment, which is based on Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submitted to the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic – Korac submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Biljana Hasanovic – Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1827	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which we have provided for in Article 2 paragraph 3 to be deleted. In that case, attitude 4 so far would become point 3. In Article 2(3), it is prescribed: exclusively from the position of the 2nd member of the defence affairs, to protect the property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia in proceedings which have the rights and obligations of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the work of the Ministry of Defence, military units and military institutions, which are organised by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, will be governed by a special law. By eradicating this attitude, this matter would be governed by a special law. Namely, the defence function at all levels of government in Serbia should be governed by a single law. The aim of the defence is to protect the property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and local self-government units. 'There is therefore no reason why we believe that the protection of the property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the work of the Ministry of Defence, military units and military institutions that have been organised by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army would be singled out in a special law and were particularly regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1828	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Snezana Malović and Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1829	This amendment in Article 3 provides for a specific supplement to be made. Namely, Article 3. reads - The State's Attorney's Office, the Advocate's Office of the AP Vojvodina and the Attorney General's Department of Local Self-Government shall carry out their duties in accordance with the Constitution, the Law and other general legal acts. We have suggested that after the word "self-government" we add the words "are independent in doing business from their own circle and", then continues - they carry out their duty in accordance with the Constitution, the law and other general legal acts. A clear regulation of the principle of independence of the Ombudsman in the performance of the affairs of his work is necessary in order to bring the new law in line with the Constitution and with the National Strategy for Justice Reform, which was adopted for the period from 2013 to 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1830	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1831	This amendment provided for the addition of paragraphs 4 and 5 to Article 5 of Article 5, which reads - every influence on the work of the State Attorney's Office is prohibited by using public office, public information funds or any other way that could endanger the independence and integrity of representing the property interests of the Republic of Serbia. The issuing of orders and the submission of requests by the persons represented pursuant to this law shall not be considered to be a prohibited influence within the meaning of Article 1(1). Namely, these new positions would specify the strategic objective of the National Strategy for Justice Reform, which was adopted for the period from 2013 to 2018, which requires strengthening independence and integrity in representing the property interests of the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of improving the quality of justice and liberation from any inappropriate and unauthorized influence. It would clearly determine that any influence on the work of the State Attorney's Office is prohibited by using public office, means of public information, or by any other means which could endanger the independence and integrity of representing the property interests of the Republic of Serbia, by not being considered to be an unauthorised influence of the issue of orders and the submission of requests by the represented entities in accordance with the law. In particular, it is important to stress that the State's Attorney General's Office can and must carry out the tasks of its work exclusively in accordance with the Constitution and the law and in order to best protect property rights and interests, and that no one has the right to influence the work of the State's Attorney's Office, which would endanger such behaviour of the State's Attorney's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1832	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1833	Thank you. This amendment would essentially make sense, but it has already been defined by some other laws, and it has been nicely given by the government. However, I am glad that someone has now remembered how the property interests of this country have been threatened. What's important in this new Law on Defence, and it's also about this amendment, is this particular surveillance that will be conducted by the ministry, because so far, it seems to me, the defense has been in many ways completely out of any kind of control and, unfortunately, everyone could have an impact on his work. I've already said that, famous "Satellite", "Jugobanka", etc., where defence has participated in many things and worked in a very suspicious way, making property interests of the Republic of Serbia and how they were threatened. I believe that what is now being introduced under the Law on Defence will really be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1834	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1835	What my colleague Djukanovic was saying earlier, part of the argument I wanted to make, too. In order to ban the influences that are illegal on the work of the Attorney General, we should consider how so far public defenders have acted in the protection of property rights and interests and units of local self-government and the province and the republic. There were all kinds of influences. I've been secretary of the municipality for two years, and I know how the lawyers in many cases where they protect the property rights of local self-government have acted. They simply go to the president of the municipality who gives them a political order that has no points of contact with the legal status of the case. The D.A. is either in a situation to listen to the president of the municipality and do so, or not to be elected a lawyer next time. It is true that some other laws protect illicit influences, but since we have the condition we have, it may not hurt from the extra head. This norm needs to be reconsidered. Secondly, some cases have been mentioned here – a significant opinion, influences and decisions of the public defendery. It seems to me that in the famous "Luka Belgrade" affair, the defences also played an important role in representing or failing to address the interests of the protection of state property of high value. That's why I think this amendment is really affirmative. I like the whole discussion today. I don't think there are any friendly or hostile amendments. There are amendments that are affirmative and, in the best sense, want to correct the text of the law, taking into account above all the current social moment and what is happening in practice with us. In any case, we will support one such solution, considering it very elegant and well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1836	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1837	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, and before I am fully in agreement with the discussions that my predecessors, Djukanovic and Chikiriz, have made, however, we have to commit to something that involves norming in the law. It seems to me absolutely excessive, respected ministers, that we are introducing into the law that every influence on the work of the State's Attorney's Office is forbidden. Of course it's forbidden, because it could also be normal. Every political influence on the work of the courts is forbidden, so that the norm can make sense if we have an entirely autonomous, independent body or institution, as we are now doing through the State's Attorney's Office. Of course, I agree with everything that's been pointed out here, that it is necessary to oversee the work of the state's attorneys, their deputies, as well as the assistants and trainees, but that the norm in the law is systematized in such a way as to establish the ban on something, and in essence it is forbidden to be absolutely excessive. In addition, the additional standard set out in the following attitude is too high – issuing orders and submitting requests by the represented entities is not considered to be a prohibited influence. Of course, it is not considered because it is the opus of business, or the body of jurisdiction of the Attorney General, which has been systematised by the existing law and the law that we are now passing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1838	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Are you wasting the time of the parliamentary group? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1839	For reasons of precision, as far as this amendment is concerned, I agree with what the government has explained, because this is regulated by other laws. I just said, let's just say, some kind of pleasure that now finally someone remembered to mention something like this about the work of the D.A.'s office itself, even though it was in some earlier period and how he had the opportunity to do it when and how it affected the work of the D.A.'s office, and that many didn't, not the public or anyone had any idea what was really going on in the D.A.'s office, they didn't really have any control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1840	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1841	I will rely on a discussion of a colleague who spoke earlier and a reminder that the laws are passed for the future, not retroactively. So this law that needs to be passed will work for the future from the day it is adopted, so it will not be possible to apply to any previous period. In that sense, I believe that this discussion was completely directed in the wrong direction. When we talk about law enforcement, we're talking about some future time, not past time. It would be a debate on the application of existing laws, and because of the fact that these laws were not adequate, we bring amendments and additions to the law. In that sense, I believe that this discussion was, in some ways, directed in the wrong sense. However, I would like to analyse the disposition of this amendment to see whether the conditions of that disposition have been met in some part so that we may be able to provide for sanctions for non-compliance with that provision. The amendment reads: "Every influence on the work of the state's defence, the use of public office, the means of public information, or any other way to endanger independence, integrity in representing the property interests of the Republic of Serbia is prohibited." Is it possible that some of these in disposition of expressed attitudes might be fulfilled? We'll probably agree – yes. Is it necessary to regulate it in this way in this law, with provisions concerning the application of the law, which apply, in this case, to the state's attorney's office? This is a question, a big question, because there are already enough provisions in the Constitution and in the law, in the Constitution, division of power between legislative, executive and judicial, so you would ask the question of what provision would indicate that someone interferes in business, in this case, the state's attorney's office? Because, apparently, from these discussions, which we heard from the position and opposition, MPs believe it has become a threat to the collapse of the legal system, i.e. to defend itself, to prosecutors, courts, etc. They involve others, therefore, using public positions, public information funds to influence these bodies that should be independent. I could agree that this is not necessary to be particularly normal, but it is necessary to apply existing laws and, in that sense, the role of the minister of justice and those who perform functions to protect independence, the integrity of institutions that should be independent, not only of the judicial ones, but also of the various independent institutions, which should worry about the application of the law, the protection of citizens' rights, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1842	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1843	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get this thing back on track, 'cause it's gotten a little out of hand. Don't mix up any concepts that aren't appropriate in this case. The state's attorney's office, the circuit attorney's office or the defence of a city or municipality are neither independent nor independent bodies. Let us not paint on them what are the features of some other judicial authorities. The court is independent and independent, the prosecution is on its own. Who's the D.A.? It's a lawyer. What's important is to control the owner's relationship, whether it's a state, whether it's a province, whether it's a city or a municipality, to the power of attorney. I need to draw attention to something that's obvious. The text of this amendment, to the truth of will, is well prescribed in the text of a draft law on defence, which has figured out by 2012 as a possible legal solution. In this case, it is the prescribed provision of the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office in which the "public prosecutor's office" is replaced by the word, then, "republic public", and here "state attorney's office". Is political influence, for example, something that is inadmissible? Of course it is. If someone influences the representation of property-law interests, let's say, of a municipality of a municipal attorney, in order to obtain for himself or another property or other benefit, then we enter the field of criminal law, where this is sanctioned by the criminal part of the abuse of official office, and for which the competent person in a local self-government unit corresponds. That's absolutely logical. Other laws have been said to regulate this purpose which was intended to be achieved by this amendment. Once again, please, let's get to know the true nature of the public defender's office. In some cases, when the defence attorney's office does not have the personnel capacity to represent the interest of the Republic of Serbia, the practice was to hire private law offices. It's true that it's a kind of substitute. What's D.A.'s office? It's a kind of state attorney who, taxed on a round of cases, or cases, represents the interest of the state, the province, the unit of local self-government. So, telling a story about it, and that was the intensity of whoever wrote that draft is that from the Republic of D.A. or anyone else, something we could call, a jargon, a group of pandas or white bears that you can't control, which nobody will be able to control, and who will be able to do whatever they want. He can't. This law establishes a system of defence control. The D.A.'s duty is that if someone is trying to exert an illegal influence on him... not allowed influence, why? There's a fair influence. You will allow the supervisor to tell the attorney – you have not done professionally here and invite him to be responsible on the basis of supervision. It says – every influence on the work of the state's defence is forbidden by using public information funds. That means journalists can't write about how the D.A.'s doing in a particular case. I think I can. I think the impact of public information funds on the legal and good functioning of the authorities and how desirable. I wish a little more public information was directed to the functioning of this state body that has always remained in the shadows somewhere near the court and the prosecution. In this law, I think that we are establishing the state's defence as one much more serious state body when it comes to the powers assigned to it, when it comes to the arrangement of its functioning, when it comes to the exercise of supervision. I will add one more thing to this amendment, of course not challenging the good will and the desire of the amendment's applicants to strengthen the law and make it better. According to the current Law on Public Defence somewhere, surveillance of the work of the Serbian government is a matter of control. This is a rhetorical question, do you think that from 1991 to 2014 someone has actually been effectively overseeing the work of the Attorney General? Just because the norm is generally prescribed, the government is setting up a defence attorney, so around the government can also relieve him and supervise his work. First of all, the government as a government has neither professional nor human resources in the government itself. It's supposed to be the General Secretariat of the Government, but the Secretary-General does other things. I think that the level of control, but also protection in the professional sense of the work of the Attorney General, will be significantly better than previously done, but also that the nature or position of a serious state, province or city body will be much clearer and more thorough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1844	I thank Mr. Secretary. The People's MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1845	You're giving me a word based on the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1846	Based on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1847	Thank you. Just one clarification from the minister. You're not quite right, and you might get the impression that someone with this amendment intended to prevent the influence of the employer, the employer, in this case the state, the province, the city on the public defender. Not at all. Therefore, even Article 2 of this amendment, which states: the issuing of orders and the submission of requests by the persons represented under this law is not considered to be a prohibited influence within the meaning of Article 1(1). I hope, Minister Selakovic, that you have also read this second attitude. So here you primarily think of the influence of third parties, and third parties can be all those who are not represented, so who are not state, province, city, municipality. We defend the public defender's independence from these faces. The possible influence on the public defender against those persons, and in that sense our amendment was in no way to defend, that the state, and that we agree with you, is controlling, monitoring, giving instructions, provinces, municipalities, the city, the public defender, in a more adequate manner, in the interest of these levels of government to protect public interest. Therefore, above all, the word in this amendment and the objective of preventing illicit influence and these unlawful influences clearly arising from this amendment can only be done by third parties and by means of public information.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1848	Time. Thank you. We are moving to the amendment to Article 8 submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1849	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, we have tabled an amendment to Article 8(4). This position 4 as proposed by the Government in this law is as follows: if, due to the failure of the authorities and organisations referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, damage occurs for the Republic of Serbia or other entities representing it, the State Attorney's Office will inform the Ministry which is authorised to supervise the work of that authority or organisation, or inform the Government and will require the responsible person in that body or organisation to compensate for the damage done. We suggested, it seems to me a different and linguistically better formulation in the part of this attitude. We suggested that this formulation be like this – if due to failure, and not to read the whole attitude, damage could occur for the Republic of Serbia and then that formulation continued as it ran. So it's not necessary to do damage already. We believe it is enough that there is a possibility of damage and we would like to try to convince you to change this position of Article 8. however, in this sense as we have suggested, because we are not satisfied with the government's reasoning to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1850	Thank you. Minister Nikola Selakovic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1851	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, would not agree with the explanation of the applicant for the amendment, this is why. If the damage could have occurred, then you can't make up for it. The damage done can only be done when the damage has occurred. So, once again go back to the text of the amendment. You have proposed the following amendment – if, due to the failure of the organ and organisation’s untimely procedure, damage could occur for the Republic of Serbia, so – if it could occur. She didn't perform. Therefore, you cannot then have the conclusion of the position that it says – that the responsible person in that body or organisation will be required to compensate for the damage done. The damage wasn't done if she could perform. Language, just one correction, and a legally very important thing. The compensation shall be carried out in that case if the damage has occurred or has occurred. This is where you put it - if it could have been a shame. I understand what you wanted, then it would require that the end of the attitude be restructured, which is not possible in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1852	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1853	I'm sorry, I didn't answer the line. I have the right as an independent MP for five minutes. Yes, I agree that perhaps in our amendment, Mr. Minister, there was a missing part that would change the formulation in the last part of Article 8, but I listened very carefully to you when you argued about the previous amendments... (President: re-apply. )......................................................................................................... So, I am grateful to Mr. Minister for this explanation and I agree that we may have failed in our amendment to adapt Article 8, to what was our intention. But then I have another suggestion for Mr. Secretary. Listening to this morning's debate on other amendments, I heard that, for example, The Committee may, even on the government's suggestion, when it finds that an amendment is meaningful, respect the basis of this amendment and that I am a committee, for example. And adapt that part of our amendment to adopt what is good. Now I'm wondering if it's possible for the government to... ? It's not possible, though. I'm sorry. Otherwise, when it comes to this formulation of ours, I mean, I agree that the damage has to happen first, so we can carry out the procedure to the end, but here, for the sake of language-based better construction, it should stand – if it could happen because of the work of the attorney's office. Why should we now ignore this possibility and act preventively and ensure that the Attorney General does so? Thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1854	Thank you. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? You can follow this amendment. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1855	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Honored Minister Selakovic, we have submitted, Zoran Zivkovic and I, amendment to Article 9(1). Article 9(1) states: ‘Courts, administration authorities and other competent authorities shall be obliged to provide all written documents directly to the State's Attorney's office in matters where representation is provided for by the State's Attorney's Office. “ We had a comment on the coin “the competent authority, ” or “the competent authorities, ” and I think we have proposed a more precise and better formulation. Instead, our proposal is that "the competent authorities" stand for "the competent state authorities, bodies and agencies". So, we thought next. When we put all of this, the other competent state authorities of the bodies and agencies, that this should include, and all of these other agencies and bodies, such as the High Council of the judiciary, for example, the State Major Prosecutors, are all agencies to which they are, for example. carried over by the business of the held bodies, such as Economic Registers Agency, Anti-Corruption Agency and the Citizens' Protector as a State Authority, but e.g. and the Commissioner for Public Information. We think it would be good for precision to complete this attitude with our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1856	Thank you. The People's MP Marijan Risticevic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the previous amendment immediately after the motion was presented, but I am still in the position that if my rights are violated, my rights not to violate the rights of the opposition. I don't think even the previous amendment was meaningful, especially because of the compensation of the damage that could have been done. I'm not a professor, I'm not a prime minister, I'm not a candidate for more prime minister parties, but I really don't know how anyone could be responsible for the damage that could have been done, for the damage that could have been done. The damage is either done or not done. But for the damage that could have been done, it may have been criminal, but no damage can be sought for what was no harm. It's almost amazing, but since that amendment has already passed, I'm going to move on to the one that's now current. The proposal proposed that the courts, authorities and other competent national authorities, bodies and agencies be obliged to provide all written documents directly to the State's Attorney's office for representation. I would agree that the motioner did not narrow down when everything needs to be notified by the state's attorney's office. The bill says that when it comes to other competent authorities, the state authorities are the authorities of the Serbian state, and other competent authorities are broader, they can include state property and AP, the city of Belgrade, various bodies working on state property. In that case, all these authorities, regardless of their state, are obliged to notify the State's Attorney General directly in the draft law proposed by the Ministry of Education. If we had adopted such an amendment, we would have narrowed down the number of deliveries to the State's Attorney General, not just by the state authorities. With this in mind, it would be very interesting to see how this would happen and who, for example, would have notified the federal government in 2001 that there could be damage to the conclusion of a contract with the consortium on 21 December 2001, following a competition held in July of the same year, without the company being even established. So, the Attorney General here gives consent to one contract, and the federal government in whose composition it was... (President: Please return to the amendment. )......................................................................................................... I'm on the amendment, I'm just saying what can happen in practice if a state authority is notified, and he doesn't. There is damage around the city of Belgrade, say 30 million dinars. I wonder who's going to make up for that damage, since that damage couldn't have happened, it's already happened. Since the authorities, both state and all, have notified the federal government in which one MP was here, that I don't speak names so I don't cause a replica, they've notified it, but the federal government, that body has signed a whole other contract than the one upon which the attorney's office has given its consent. So, the damage could not have occurred, but it had arisen. I'm asking, who's going to make it up to you now? Is an old-timer enough to make up for 30m euros, how much is the damage the city of Belgrade and the state of Serbia suffered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1858	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, came forward after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, first of all, I think that the argument of counterpart Risticevic is absolutely in place, as is the government's position and explanation for why this amendment is not accepted. I'd just like to add this argument to a few more of my visions why this amendment should not be accepted. First, the government is absolutely right to say that the expression of the body used in the formulation of the amendments to Article 9(1) is not precise enough. I hope that no one will misread me and that these words will not break out of the context of the discussion of the bill, but it seems to me that the use of the word "body" when it comes to the state apparatus is one not very happily borrowed from the state-law and political dictionaries of Croatia. Since 1990, the word “state bodies ” has been used there. I don't know if the Croatian legal system was your motive for you to enter such a formula into this amendment of yours, but the government was right when she said that the term was not accurate. If you want us to go back a little bit in history, there is another reason why your amendment should not be accepted, or another argument in favour of the government doing the right thing when it refused your amendment. The word “body” has been used in the language of public law since the 17th century, more specifically since 1679 when the English parliament adopted the famous “habe ascorpus act”. Habe ascorpus in Latin literally means – you have a body, in a broader sense – you have a free body. Therefore, the word “body” in public law means a natural person whose freedom cannot be questioned without an appropriate court order. In other words, the habe ascorpus act is actually an act that exists in all civilised and democratic states, and it exists with us, and in fact it means a ban against being legally deprived of freedom. And if we look at legal and historical, the word "body" can refer exclusively to a natural person, it can't apply to a state body, it's one thing. Another thing, as far as these findings of yours are concerned, about agencies like you, the competent state authorities. You must know that not all agencies in the Republic of Serbia have equal legal status. Some agencies are simply public agencies, according to the Public Agency Act, some agencies are state authorities. For example, the Anti-Corruption Agency is defined as a state body. Some agencies are the authorities of the administration within the relevant ministries, some agencies are public services. So they have a diverse legal nature. It is simply not just because of you and not only because of the MPs, but also because of the citizens, because the topic of the agency is a very interesting topic for both the media and the citizens, it is important to know that not all agencies in the Republic of Serbia have the same legal nature and can not all be fooled by this body of state authorities. Some agencies are state authorities, but one good part of the agencies are not state authorities, they have status or public agencies or public services. What Mr. Risticevic said was absolutely correct. Legally-technically, or rather nomotechnically speaking, is a much more correct formulation used by the Government when it says – competent authorities. You insist on this syntagma of "the competent state authorities". The State's Attorney's Office may come in need of written procurement from non-state authorities. I remind you, the authorities of the autonomous province are not state authorities, the authorities of the local self-government units are not state authorities, but in the legal language of all these entities the word "organ" is used, and they are not state bodies. So the authorities of the province are the authorities of territorial autonomy. Territorial autonomy is not a state, as are local self-government units, although they are legal entities, their authorities are not state authorities. In that sense, I think the argument of the government, which was further supported by my colleague Marijan Risticevic, is absolutely in place and that this amendment is indeed not to be accepted for all these reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1860	I thank the MP Martinovic. The People's MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, came forward. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1861	According to Article 158, I have the right to use until the end of five minutes as an independent MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1862	You've got three minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1863	There are three things I would like to say here, ladies and gentlemen and respected Minister Selakovic. First of all, the word "body" has not so far noticed that it exists in such a form in the regulations in the Republic of Croatia, which is our neighbouring country. Mr. Martinovic himself, the Honorable Chairman, said, when he called for the experience of the Republic of Croatia, that there is a term "body" there, but in our system, and legally and politically, there is a term "body", which is precisely known what it means beyond what Mr. Martinovic was talking about. I'm surprised at the other thing. Even if that term is very close, let's say, to some experience that exists in the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, I guess we here, and even in the process of European integration that the Serbian Government has declared as its primary goal, we need to use some comparative experience. The government of the Republic of Serbia, for example, has been offering assistance as an EU member and Serbian government to move much faster in the process of negotiations on Serbia's EU membership. That aid, as far as I know, the Honored Chairman, was sent to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian government did not take the view that, as aid comes from the Republic of Serbia to harmonise the legal rules of the Republic of Serbia with the EU, it will not receive that assistance. Therefore, the Honorable Chairman, I do not understand this remark made by Mr Martinovic. I must add, however, Zoran Zivkovic and I, as proposing this amendment, are still dissatisfied with the government's argument that this amendment is being rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1864	Thank you. Minister Nikola Selakovic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1865	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I consider it necessary to add something to this content, teaching and full professorial debate. The fact is that the unity of the legal order implies both termological and linguistic unity. So, if our administrative right and institutional administrative right do not know the term “body”, which has once again entered a neighbouring country with literal translations of English legal texts, according to which I have high respect and respect, and in that contribution that my colleague Martinovic spoke of, in general, political but particularly legal and historical thoughts, it is simply not appropriate to use the term “body” where it does not belong. Someone will think of it and, let's say, they'll look at our Criminal Code where there's an entire head called "criminal acts against life and body". Now, let's say, one legal text where the term "body" is mentioned, and this bill absolutely has nothing to do with it. Everyone has a right not to like the government's argument. If you want to cut hair, as they say, to four, the very fact that we use the term “organ” means that the organ works within a body, and that body, by the name of the alleged, is a state. So, on that side, it would be, in my opinion, inappropriate to use this term, of course, with the support of another terminologyal confusion introduced by the lawmaker in our system through the term "agency". You can't tell what all the agencies are, because there's so much difference between them. The only thing that brings them all together is one citizen's otter by using the very words of the agencies, whatever it covers, often areas that are extremely important and part of the competence of those authorities, which is both important and important for the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1866	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic came forward. On what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1867	Article 158, five minutes as an independent MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1868	Here, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1869	Thank you. I think Mr Pavicevic and I have been able to show a high level of tolerance, desire and expectations in the past few weeks that the new government is really starting to do what it promised in the election campaign, after the constitution and in these bill proposals, discussions and public statements, but it is obvious that this is not going very easily. This debate today on this bill, on this amendment, is practically a good example. We've heard a lot in the debate about an amendment that's very clear. Perhaps the legal language is not accurate, Mr Pavicevic immediately said and there is no dilemma. Of course, immediately for completely unclear reasons, MPs of the parliamentary majority entered the defense of the government, the present minister, and defended why the government should not accept our amendment. Minister Selakovic, his ministry and the Serbian government are strong enough alone, able, trained, prepared and brave to defend the bill themselves, so there is no need to make a haranga towards anyone who has managed to muster up courage to propose an amendment to the government's proposal. Or should we change the laws, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, so that those who do not have a large majority, who have not received a large number of votes in the previous elections do not have the right to speak, do not have the right to write amendments, do not even have the right to make mistakes sometimes legally? It is particularly sad and funny for the reform government, which is better than the best government in Serbia's history, as we heard in the campaign, to be defended by people who can hardly defend anything. We heard about Croatian today... (President: I would ask you not to talk about the government, but about the amendment. ) I return to the amendment, to Article 9. The law on defence that reads, as MPs already know, but in this law and the argument against amendments, the terms – Croatian language, Croatian law, the old timers, the federal government, the building CK, I don't know what we didn't hear that had nothing to do with it, so nobody warned people who talked about missing the topic, time and place. I won't even talk about the old timers. The agencies, I agree completely, the agencies are the evil of Serbia. An evil of the greatest kind. At the time of some serious government by the end of 2003, there were one seven-eight agencies in all of Serbia. Then they grew to a number that is over 100 or 150, which is very clear, from 2004 to 2012. Then in 2012, we got this best self-proclaimed government, which said it would cut into the root and not one was abolished, or I heard maybe five-six. In any case, dramatically less than what was promised. As for the language used in parliament, the terms used, whether they are Croatian, English, Serbian or Serbian. We have, for example, the past few weeks and a month, an expression that reads "aggressive employment". And where's the legal basis for one such expression? Where is the political basis for such a term? Where's Lexic, Semantic, aggressive employment? What does that mean? Well, no one said a word against that expression, but many repeated it as parrots. Aggressive employment, whether this is an example of employment to be seen today in the Nis heat media, where the children of former workers, members of the ruling party, or ruling parties are employed. Is that aggressive?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1870	Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1871	The amendment concerns the Attorney General's office and it's clear to all of us, but the discussion on him used terms that were inappropriate and the purpose of my discussion was to point to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1872	Thank you. I apologize to Dr Martinovic, Minister Nikola Selakovic said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1873	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must really look back on a few views I disagree with. First, when it's said maybe legal-language is not a precise amendment, but it needs to be seen through the fingers because of it and that, that is to say, respect it, accept it. I think it's exactly the function of people who work in the professional departments of the National Assembly. For legal texts it is extremely important to be legal and linguistically precise. That was why I debated the way I did in the previous report, and I realized that it was also the reason for my colleague Martinovic to debate. Someone can see it as a defense of the government, I took his exposure as a defense of the profession. And it was very well founded on his exposure. I can't agree with something that's been said, and I especially didn't say it myself – agencies are the biggest evil. This would mean that the biggest evil is the Military Security Agency, the Military Intelligence Agency, the Security and Information Agency, the Anti-Corruption Agency. I don't think so. I think that these are also the necessary institutions for the good functioning of our system, but I pointed to something else that legal and termological inaccuracy can lead to chaos in one area. Thank you for being said, even quoted and expressed, the agencies are the greatest evil. This very example that I have set is absolutely how much of this agency is seen, not that it is not evil, but rather the need for us, but some other body has been appointed by the agency and has been led astray by a citizen, therefore, in complete error about the importance of different bodies or organizations. I'm unhappy both as a lawyer and as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, which is one of our countries, don't get me wrong, but it looks like it's systematically and systematically decommissioned. You're in a situation where today when you have a glow, as it's called, it's all been translated into us, that's something that's been stolen from us, regulatory bodies, that's where you use that coin "regulatory bodies", but you don't have it anywhere in strictly legal terms. Serbian regulatory bodies mean competent authorities. End of story. But the citizen was led astray when on the one hand you put a security-information agency on his side, and on the other hand put the Agency for Equal Regional Development. What difference does that make? I can agree with you in part with something that you said, that is, that we as a state in the previous period, is it a year and a half, let's say, at the time of the government's term in which I was a minister myself, and I was covering the government's portfolio, that we were not, in that period, you said -- none, not true, was abolished by 17 competent authorities that, we can agree, not enough, so I don't dispute at all. What was the problem? That's where we made a big move. We didn't have anywhere, but absolutely nowhere is a complete list of all these competent state authorities and organizations with their powers. The big problem is, therefore, the existence in our legal system, multiple bodies and organisations that have overlapping once almost identical competences. To the truth of the will of many of these bodies, I will conclude that because we are really going in a different direction, and that is not my goal, many of these bodies have been formed within different international projects. As a state, we have committed ourselves to implement a project when the funding of this project is exhausted. There's only one organ left that exists. Then at one point, he started cutting off some parafiscal accusations and supporting himself. Not to go any further into that story. I think that once upon a time we had a more organized state, when the job that's now being done by dozens of agencies worked one, two or three ministries. Not regretting this period which has had some of its weaknesses and some of its advantages, I think together, both we from the executive and you from the legislative authority need to make sure that we create as effective a state as possible that can simply and effectively act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1874	I thank Mr. Secretary. The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic came forward. Here you go, short replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1875	We'll agree with the minister and I on a lot of things. I totally agree with him having too many agencies. Of course the observation doesn't say that it's not clear what I meant when I said the agencies were evil. I said that the agencies that were created after 2004, before 2004, since 2002 and since 2003, there have been BIA, VBA and all those agencies that should exist. I agree that tandem regulatory bodies are running away from the responsibility of the state and politics, or politicians who run the state, not now talking about the government, but talking about those governments that were for the period I was talking about. It's completely pointless to set up an agency for something that's a couple of excellencies, a government job or a competent authority. Why was that done? There are many reasons we agree on. I think that needs to change, and for that you'll have in this little, tough, even MP club, but in two independent allied MPs, no matter what the past, ideology or what. If we have 150 agencies, you've cut it by 17, but there's 120 left and something who knows what they're doing, they have parafiscal procedures, they're making regulations, they're burdening citizens, other organs. It's something you can't allow. I don't accept an excuse for not having a list. In five days, you can find the number of people who work in state authorities and a list of all those agencies. Finally, your objection to intricacies in the writing of amendments stands, because neither I nor Mr Pavicevic are lawyers, and probably that most lawyers are not quite able to write 100 percent accurate, but this is also due to the fact that the competent authorities of the Assembly... (Chairman: Please time.) )......................................................................................................... I'm just going to finish this, and first of all, the secretary general, they don't want us to be approved by an expert advisor for the two of us as independent MPs. We're not asking to hire anyone new, we're asking that from the existing potential of the human here, someone is assigned, and we didn't get an answer, and we're verbally told that we have no right. So much for equality and parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1876	Thank you. The People's MP Marijan Risticevic came forward. You have the right in time for the MPs' group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1877	By amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. I was willing to accept the amendments. As promoters, I am a farmer, but I say I did not take any important state office, I was not even prime minister, I was neither a candidate for prime minister, I was not a minister of the interior, I was an ordinary farmer of interest. I was willing to accept that, but the amendments for me farmers weren't written enough, not just meaningful. As a promoter, as an MP, I know that every MP has the right to submit an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1878	Please respect the dignity of the National Assembly and speak of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1879	I'm talking about the amendment. What dignity it is when I say that every MP has the right to propose an amendment, but also every MP has the right to propose an amendment. So, on the subject of these amendments, it is obvious that the Proposer did not use that right that he was able to amend that which was not precise enough, which was not written enough or meaningful enough however you want it to be, he had the right to correct it until the beginning of this session and the debate on these amendments, and now we are asked to return to some beginning because of these amendments. At the next session, we may be asked to formulate a new bill, or at any of the upcoming sessions, someone will ask us to return to the draft of the law and to conduct a public debate, etc. All this is legal and legitimate, however, and we must respect some agenda of the Assembly, some dynamics, with which the promoter had even the opportunity to correct his amendment, which he did not, of course. But there was something said here that you didn't react. We have a high level of intolerance, i.e. that they have combined a high level of tolerance, I hear for the first time that on this amendment, that the minority has been tolerant towards most, I see, all MPs here are present, I think that usually most of them are tolerant to the minority, and we've shown it in full capacity here. Here, too, the amendment has been said that the Constitution states that all amendments to the opposition refuse in advance that they do not have the right to submit amendments. It's simply unacceptable. We have accepted many amendments to the opposition here. I remember all the laws, so we were going to vote in favour of the opposition law, and in doing so, half the MPs of that parliamentary group were not present during the vote, and that was happening to us, so I could say that we should change the constitution and say that the government should not refuse any opposition amendment, or even one that is meaningful enough and written. So I accept saying whatever the opposition wants. So, I don't think it's a mistake for you to let go of a debate that's been held in the widest place, and not according to the amendment, you tolerate that too often for me. It's even said here that it's neither the time nor the place to mention the Central Committee building. I mentioned it about the D.A.'s office. The basic thing was whether it was true what I claimed, not whether it was time or place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1880	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1881	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman. In this meeting of the National Assembly obviously there is no lack of wit, but we have serious bill proposals on the agenda and I think our approach to the debate should be serious. Part of that seriousness I think assumes and that the minister who is in charge of defending these bill proposals is present in the O.R. when we explain the amendments to the proposal...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1882	I apologize to the speaker, the minister was there the whole time, he went out for a moment, he'll be back in the O.R. soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1883	My proposal is then the chairman of this debate to stop for a moment, to wait...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1884	Go ahead, go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1885	But I have one concrete proposal that the minister here has jurisdiction over the government to defend this bill, to explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1886	There's a minister's associate, so he'll pass it on to the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1887	Can the minister's associate be involved in the debate, can he answer any remarks I have here?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1888	Please continue after the amendment. You will not be able to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1889	Please give me an extra two minutes, since I haven't been able to use the time to explain the amendment, because the minister isn't here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1890	Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1891	So, the two of us, Zoran Zivkovic and I, have submitted an amendment to Article 11(2). In Article 11, point (b) of Article 11, the following reads – State Attorney's Office, before courts, arbitration, administration authorities and other competent authorities, representing state authorities and special organisations, which do not have legal personality, state bodies and special organisations which have public institutions, whose funding is provided by the Republic of Serbia, and which is continued in Article 11(2). We believe that this formulation, also co-worker of Minister Selakovic, is not precise enough and our proposal for this amendment is in the following... .. (President: Please address the President...) )......................................................................................................... to amend this formulation and to provide, instead of standing – whose funding is provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget, for a formulation to stand – whose funding is mostly provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Therefore, this formulation does not, in our understanding, include cases of protection and the right to the interests of the Republic of Serbia, in the case of lending or loans to public enterprises, e.g. there must be no dispute between state and public enterprises, with regard to the return of loans or loans, but there may be a dispute, which envolves these funds, and we only think that by accepting this amendment, you would actually agree, that additionally, which lawyers, always tends to specify what is in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1892	The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1893	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear ministers, I hope my opposition colleagues will not take me for harm, because I believe I have the right to defend the government's views in the National Assembly. I think the government's intrinsicity to reject this amendment was to expand the circle of entities represented by the State's Attorney's Office. Your amendment goes in another direction, that the circle of these entities that need to be represented by the State's Attorney's office is narrowed down. As a parliamentary group, we believe that the government is right to reject this amendment, because the question is what is the alternative that your amendment is accepted. So, to narrow down the circle of entities represented by the state's attorney's office and then to all those public institutions, special organisations, etc. which are not financed by the Republic of Serbia's budget, to be represented by whom. It is precisely by those quoted by Mr Selakovic, which are private law offices. I just want to tell you both to you and other fellow Members of the People's Parliaments and citizens, if you had a little peek at the balance sheets of the Privatisation Agency, you'd see how much money, people's money, was spent on representing the Privatisation Agency, which has a whole legal sector, which deals with these affairs, and even in front of international barbarian offices that represented the Privatisation Agency, in court proceedings and other state bodies. What we really want. We want to cover the wider circle of entities that, if they come into the situation to lead the dispute before the court, come into the situation to represent the property interests of the Republic of Serbia, or other competent entities, to be represented by the State's Attorney's Office, that they do not have to address private law offices or what is even more expensive, private law offices from other states, which was the case. So, I've only given you an example of the Privatisation Agency, and you have as many cases as you want. So the parts of the state apparatus, which were by definition to be represented by the Republic Public Attorney's Office, were represented by private law offices at prices that were astronomical and where the huge amount of budget money was going away. Come on, it was going to private law offices, rather than having these private law offices massively lost their disputes on purpose, because there was some kind of agreement between the entities in the dispute – let's you lose in the dispute, the state will pay out of the budget damage because the competent court estimated that the damage was done, so we'll agree which percentage comes to us. When I tell us, I mean private law offices, and the state didn't benefit from it. I think it was the government's intensities why your amendment wasn't accepted, because if you narrow down the circle of entities that will be represented by the state's attorney's office, then the question is who will represent them. We have very negative experience from our not so long ago legal and political past, when, besides lawyers who worked in state bodies, in special organisations, in public institutions, etc., you have not hired the Republic Public Attorney's Office, nor the public defendership of autonomous provinces, nor the public defendership of municipalities and cities, but you have hired private lawyers who have been charging you with their services, and you have lost their disputes massively. If we want to continue with this practice, or if you think that practice was good, it is your right, but whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants something else. We want to minimise the number of cases where public authorities are represented by someone else, not the state's attorney's office. So that's what the government's intensity is. That's why I think your amendment was really rejected for a reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1894	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1895	Mr. Chairman, there are three things I want to say. So the argument that our amendment narrows down the number of users doesn't stand here. It's just being done the opposite. Mr. Chairman, and in fact I am talking to Mr. Martinovic, what we wanted to propose is to prevent further Burzer combinations from functioning in this sphere. I think it's absolutely and obviously the wrong interpretation of this amendment of ours. Dear Chairman, if Mr. Martinovic's idea is to prevent the keg combinations, then I would expect Mr. Martinovic here today to support our amendment to Article 11. Proposal for a law on defence. The other thing here was some question of literacy, knowledge of grammar rules, etc. Every amendment we've ever made has been passed through a check of Serbian spelling. There is no objection to grammar or spelling. What we have confessed and accepted is that we may not have mastered that legal or legal order well enough. We accept that possibility, but we stick to the existing spelling, whatever we think of it. Please note that I expect Mr. Martinovic here to vote for our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1896	Thank you. Minister Nikola Selakovic picked up the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1897	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a desire to be more efficient, and to really hear all opinions, there is one saying, you won't take me as evil, he says – thinking and flowers are not the same. I believe in your good intentions, but the word mostly narrows down the circle of possible entities to only those where it shares in the financing that comes from the side of the country bigger. You, for example, have organizations founded by the Republic of Serbia. For example, the Department for the Protection of Cultural Monuments in the city of Kraljev. It was founded by the Republic of Serbia. It is mainly financed from the King's City budget, partly from the Republic of Serbia's budget. And here the question arises, if this amendment were to be adopted, that institution could not represent the state's attorney's office. I'm telling you a clean legal interpretation. I'm sure you don't want that, that you don't want that effect, but if you don't want that effect, then accept what you're told by legal interpretation, by legal interpretation of what you're proposing. So if something is mostly financed, then we could say it's more than 50%, it means mostly, or if it's financed from a large number of sources, where it's relatively majority funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1898	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1899	Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, I very much appreciate the approach of the legislator of this law, which obviously leads to a serious debate, even in some details. That I think is very good for the work of this congregation, but let me read Article 11, paragraph 2. It says – The State Attorney's Office shall represent state authorities and special organisations which do not have legal personality, state authorities and special organisations which have legal personality, whose funding is provided from the budget. So we think that if you add this primarily, it's going to expand. Maybe I'll make a little layman's comment. It's possible, for example. that there is a kind of misunderstanding, but this kind of comment that we make here we came to them not only by moving Zoran Zivkovic and I, we read the bill proposals, but by consulting with the lawyers who gave us this interpretation in our legal system advice. I'm sorry there are no more New Party MPs, including a lawyer, that they may be more involved in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1900	Thank you. The People's MP Nedjo Jovanovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1901	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear fellow Members, I think it's time for this dialogue to end, given the fact that this is one story that involves turning around. What is essential and supports by the SPS parliamentary group is what is the essence of the responsibility of the state's attorney's office. This is the protection of legal and other interests, particularly of property interests, of the entities to which this protection applies, from the state, through the autonomous province, the units of local self-government, as well as the entities to which that protection is expected and which must have that protection. In a specific situation, there are several reasons why this circle of subjects is expanding. Indeed, we stand at that point that this circle of subjects must be much greater than what was proposed for both the reasons presented by fellow Martinovic and the reasons that relate to the continuing problems that arise for us in the functioning of individual institutions. It is mentioned by the Privatisation Agency as a generator of a large number of problems, which stands, which is a fact, but we also have to bear in mind the fact that these problems generate one law that is already within the scope of something that means correction, which is the Law on Privatisation, which has just allowed a generator of the problem, such as the Privatisation Agency, to really cause these problems. I'm not going back to that period when that privatisation bill was passed, who brought it in. At the time of his vote, the Socialist Party of Serbia was against the passing of the law and I do not want to move away from the topic. In any case, it's about something that was the root cause of everything that today implies evil for the economy. Finally, I think that this existing solution, as the proposed text of the law has been defined, is sufficiently defined, very precisely and clearly, by a circle of entities that enjoy protection by the state's attorneys, through the provision of legal assistance related to the protection of legal and other interests, and at the same time what is the essence of the bill itself, which is that, apart from the state, the AP, the local self-government units and the institutions that we have listed here, are entities that will enjoy this protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1902	Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1903	Thank you. I hope you'll allow me to look back on this amendment and explain the two amendments that follow, to unite them, because it's about implementing an idea throughout the law. This idea was started in our first amendment to Article 2, when we predicted the creation of a single state attorney, or a single body of the State's Attorney's Office. On Article 23, we have laid down an amendment which we have provided for to add item 3 after Article 2 because this member regulates the state's attorneys and deputies of the state's attorneys, so we have provided for deputies for certain areas. Then, the amendment to Article 54, where we have provided for the erasure of Article 5, which provides that the organisational units of the Ministry of Defence, which carry out representation tasks under the general authority issued by the Republic of Serbia's public defender, will continue after the entry into force of this law, to represent the Republic of Serbia in the proceedings which have the rights and obligations of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the tasks of the Ministry of Defence and the special organisations within the Ministry of Defence until the adoption of a special law, as well as the amendment which we have provided for the addition of the name after Article 58 – the taking over of staff from the Organisational Unit of the Ministry of Defence which performs the representation tasks and the Article 58 that would regulate it in detail. All these amendments are aimed at implementing an idea, because we felt that a more comprehensive solution is that the defence function at all levels of government in Serbia is governed by a single law, since the aim of the defence is to protect the property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia and to include the protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the work of the ministry responsible for defence affairs, military units and military institutions that are organised by the Ministry of Defence and Army of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1904	Thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 32, was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1905	This amendment shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1906	Thank you. The amendment proposed to add a new member of 32a after article 32a.Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac together. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposed that a new member of 58a be added after article 58a. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Forwarding in RESOURCES You have received an amendment submitted by the National MP Susan Spasojevic on the draft law. You received the Government's opinion on the amendment. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, Article 157 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendment, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF THE PARENT PROCEDURE You have received amendments submitted by MP Neđo Jovanovic to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, Article 157 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Neđo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1907	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, the reason for proposing or submitting this amendment is to specify Article 4 relating to the status of proxies. Given that in the proposed text, a lawyer appears as a pronoun, a blood relative in the right line, a brother, a sister, a mate, a representative of the legal aid service, a unit of local self-government, I felt that it was necessary for this member to be identified with other legal solutions, i.e. systemic solutions, where it was clearly defined who, besides those persons, could be a proxies in a litigation procedure. It is no doubt that, apart from those persons, it is also a public notary, as well as a public or private perpetrator. What is already contained in the provisions of the Law on Implementation and Security should also be applied to the provisions of the Law on the Procedural Procedure, because the Law on the Procedural Procedure, as well as the Procedural Law, where, as regards the provisions relating to the Procedural Procedure, it is necessary to define very precisely and clearly those provisions which are bound, both for the status of a public notary and for the status of an enforcer. The perpetrator is someone who already provides legal assistance to the parties in the enforcement process, and the public notary, both in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Public Registration and at the same time in the provisions of the Law, or in the positive rules relating to free legal assistance, has the status of the person who provides such legal assistance. So what I think would be cellificial is that this norm is complete, that my proposal be accepted and that both the public notary and the executioner are defined as pronouncing powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1908	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1909	Thank you, Chairman. Given the overwhelming views of court practice, the motivation to submit this amendment is perfectly clear. The case-law has resulted in something that seems very important, which is that under one – courts are allowed to work lightly, i.e. to act effectively, in accordance with the principle of respect for the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, and on the other hand to free the existing laws of the so-called non-binding norms. In the proposed text of the law, Article 193 clearly represents a kind of compromise. In the current bill, there was an imperative norm, a binding, congenital norm, which meant that the prosecutor had to contact the attorney-general before initiating the case in order to try to settle the dispute in a peaceful manner within 60 days. Courts in case law, above all, have issued one view that is completely contrary to what the existing solution implies, but it is obvious that it also collapsing the proposed solution from this text of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on Prosecution. The very fact that he can refer the party to the lawyer, does not commit and does not need to exist in law at all. On the other hand, the Advocate is also obliged that during the course of the proceedings, representing anyone, whether it is the State, the AP or the local self-government unit, to comply with the principle of respect for the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, the reduction of costs and how it takes care of the possibility of peaceful dispute resolution. In the end, why would this norm exist when we already have the Law on Intervention in Dispute Resolution? It is he who intervenes in resolving disputes that will refer the parties to the Attorney General in case there is a justification that the dispute can be resolved peacefully. For this reason, I now use the time of the parliamentary group, I believe that a non-binding norm should not burden the law and that it should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1910	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1911	To be honest, I thought this amendment would be accepted. Dear Ministers, along with all the MPs here, I urge that, given the circumstances that exist, consider accepting this amendment. The substance of the proposed amendment is exclusively in order to enable the availability of justice to citizens, so that as many citizens as possible can be used with an emergency remedy, in particular the revision, which is the essence of the proposed amendment and that we do not, in any case, narrow it down. What the Ministry of Justice recognized as good, which is supported by the SPS parliamentary group, is the fact that the property censorship, which is linked to the reason for the permit, or the possibility of submitting the audit, is down to 40,000 euros. In the existing law, the amount was 100,000 euros. Of course, when the value of the dispute is defined to such a large amount, there is a limiting factor for parties in the procedure that judicial protection cannot achieve before a court instance that implies the top of the judiciary pyramid in the Republic of Serbia, which is the Supreme Court of Cassation. In particular, circumstances have arisen, Mr. Minister, that in the future we will have and how many reasons for the Supreme Cassation Court to appear in such disputes and that the property censorship should be brought down even lower. Why? The upcoming recovery of all kinds of damage, which has been done through the disaster that this country has suffered, suffered by these citizens, Serbian citizens, will mean a lot of work, and hence, with the resolution, the reasons for creating conditions for legal protection for all those who may need legal protection to be brought to justice before the courts. It is no doubt that the damage done on buildings is significantly greater than this amount that appears here as an asset price for review, but for those who have had a very low value of objects or property, regardless of whether it is mobile or immovable property, I fear, along with all MPs here, that because of this censorship they will not be able to exercise the right to full judicial protection, and complete judicial protection implies, not only protection on regular, but also on extraordinary legal remedies. That is why I believe that, in addition to what I have already stated in the context of the proposed amendment, you should be defined as accepting the amendment. In addition, in the proposed amendment, I have specified something that I believe is necessary, because of the courts, in order to avoid unequal case law, which is that Article 13(3) states that the review is submitted in the case where the second-degree court adopted the appeal, abolished the verdict, opened the debate, because it has the right to open the debate, to listen to the parties, to carry out evidence and to decide on the party's demands. However, this first reason is far greater reason to accept this amendment, so once again I appeal to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1912	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS OF THE LAW ON THE ADVANCE PROCEDURE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure in voting day to decide on a bill in general. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the law on enforcement and security since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure in voting day to decide on a bill in general. I give my word to the proposing representative, Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1913	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an authorised representative of the motions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like, both the MPs of the ruling majority and, in particular, MPs of opposition parties who in an extremely high-quality debate contributed to the improvement of individual proposed legislative solutions, to make them significantly better, to give an example of good and professional parliamentary debates. The fact that these eight laws, of which four drafts of comprehensive laws and four draft laws on amendments and additions to existing laws, containing a total of 562 members, have been submitted to 562 members only a sufficient witness to the extent that these drafts of the law are really well and quality prepared. In that name, I thank you for a good debate, and I am confident that in the voting day you will support the vote of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-22-0.u1914	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Dear People's MPs, we are finishing work for today and continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours with the draft law amending the Transport Safety Act on the roads submitted by the Government. Thank you.
