ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2389	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. As you know, this special session I called for the National Assembly to be addressed by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, his Excellency Mr Borut Pahor. I am honored to welcome Mr. Pahor on behalf of the Members of the People. In addition, I welcome members of the delegation of the Republic of Slovenia attending today's special session, as well as representatives of permanent diplomatic missions accredited in the Republic of Serbia and representatives of the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in the Republic of Serbia. I ask the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. Borut Pahor, to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2390	Dear Madam President, honourable MPs and MPs of the National Assembly, Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I am filled with very strong feelings, I speak at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as President of the Republic of Slovenia, whose first honour is this. This, at least in my opinion, is a symbolic turning point in the history of relations between two peoples and two independent states, Slovenia and Serbia. That is why I am overwhelmed by strong feelings of joy and pride. I came as your friend, and I was accepted as your friend. All this together, my conversations with your country president, with your Prime Minister, with the Honorable National Assembly President, all of this goes beyond the usual protocol. This is about genuine sympathy and affection for two peoples and two states. That is why I must cry out loud what my heart sees at this time – let Slovenian-Serbian friendship live! Dear Madam President, high home, my country and all its people are in great sadness over the tragic consequences of a recent natural disaster. Please receive the expressions of our deep condolences and solidarity. Slovenia is so far, and in the future it will continue to do everything it can to help. Here, and I would like to point out in particular, it is not only about helping the state of Slovenia to Serbia, it is about a very close and sincere desire for all people in Slovenia to help your people in these difficult moments. A few days ago, in one of the centres for collecting assistance, which is plenty in Slovenia, for collecting aid for flooded areas in the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and your country, together with family, it was on Saturday, very spontaneously and unplannedly, taking a few useful things to people who, due to these circumstances, were in trouble. Of course there were people there who took over. Of course there were many who cared, but there was much more human strength. Human warmth and goodness prevailed. In these difficult times, it defeats nobility or, as Michael Pupin once wrote for a reason, I quote: “A wonderful love that connects a Serb and a Slovenian is. ” Dear Presidents, in relations between the two nations, and especially between the two independent states, did not always describe Pupin in an inspired manner. It wasn't as it is today, nor as we promised today with the President of the State and Government. Unfortunately, there have been periods of disagreement and misunderstanding between the relations of the two peoples and the states, but these periods are behind us and the present sense of connection, affection and friendship are genuine feelings both at the level of the two states and, more importantly, at the level of an ordinary man. Dear ladies and gentlemen, your Excellency, however, for the present time and future, it is crucial that a few years ago we set out to make peace and strengthen everything that connects us and that honors us. Today we inspire each other with expressions of trust and mutual respect. Our visionary pursuit is a peaceful and common European future. We're friends and allies on that point. Together we want to shape a world of peace, common life and prosperity for our will and for the will of our children. High House, with regard to these honorable values, we are primarily obliged to do everything in our power in bilateral relations, in relations between two nations and two states. As an assessment of the current political relations between countries, we could say that they are constantly improving, and I would take a risk with the assessment that they are excellent. The very fact that this is still the first official visit by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to Serbia shows that these levels of co-operation and trust were not easy to reach. Before, during and after the war in the Balkans, both Slovenians and Serbs had some important issues in mind. When I reached agreement with the Croatian side in the fall of 2009, 18 years after the country's independence, as the then president of the government on how to define the border between the countries, I estimated that, despite some hard-core prejudices and political restraints of both sides, circumstances occurred in both Slovenia and Serbia, in which we could start to strengthen universal co-operation and start the path of friendship between both our peoples and our countries. This also favored me for the political leadership of Serbia at the time. The first discreet and then formal process of political cohesion was launched. Today's first official visit opens a new chapter in political relations. I ask you to accept as representatives of the entire Serbian people my most sincere promises that as President of the Republic, I will do everything in my power to deepen this friendship in behalf of both countries and both peoples, the region, Europe and the international community. Dear ladies and gentlemen, with the abstention of the political relationship of the 1990s, relatively modest economic co-operation can be attributed. For both countries, after 2009, it was a good thing that political co-operation started, because it supported economic co-operation, right at the time when the overall recession in the world began. The increased volume of exchange of goods and services, increased volume of mutual investment, even joint co-operation in third markets contributed and still contributed to a sharp increase in economic exchange, which is for both countries, especially mine, which was also a member of the European Group and the EU, which was a financial, economic crisis, hit even worse, and this is significant, especially for my country. Without great risk, we can predict together that in the future the desired political relations will be accompanied by excellent economic co-operation, including an increased volume of mutual investment. In your country at this time there are just over 1,300 companies which are to a lesser or greater extent part of the Slovenian business community. I would like to tell you that these companies, owned by the Serbian people in Slovenia, after these first doubts, both on the Slovenian side, in the business community and in the general public, are still well received today and we count them as strategic partners, who know our culture well, both externally and internally, as well as our people who deserve and earn their bread by their hard work. I think it's a beautiful tune that in these sharp economic relationships it's especially nice to hear. The Honorable Madam President, your Excellency and the High House, right in the spirit of this friendship and honesty, the honesty of each other, would not be fair to mention the problem that has marked the bilateral relations between our two countries and Kosovo significantly. I would like to guarantee you, ladies and gentlemen, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the Republic of Slovenia has never underestimated or understood the sensitivity of this issue. She always understood the sensitivity of this question, she always addressed this question with the necessary care and attention. But what is really essential about this issue is that Slovenia has never decided on this issue either in favour of Serbia or Serbia, but has already followed some of the principles we believe in today. We knew that often these views on this issue did not come to your approval here, and all the time we knew that Serbia itself was the most dependent on which direction this issue was going to be resolved or to take place, which is not only important for relations with countries in the region and the neighbourhood, but also for the whole region. It's also important for the entire European continent. This is not just about the relationship between Belgrade and Pristina, that because of Serbia's importance for relations in the region, it's about how you're going to get to grips with this huge political, as I understand the emotional issue that affected you first. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, may I today express my sincerest admiration and admiration for my country's political wisdom, thoughtfulness, determination, courage and extraordinary will to address this issue in the spirit of European policy, as well as in favour of peace and prosperity in the region, Europe and the world? This is about a policy of peaceful regulation of very delicate ones, as I said, and very emotional issues that only guarantee through the necessary strengthening of mutual respect, co-operation and the creation of stable conditions for overall progress. Dear Madam President, Slovenia is open and honest not only today in front of you, but also in our talks within the European Council in our talks within the European Parliament, in our bilateral talks with the leaders of the European Union, it supports your country's membership in the European Union. Your country has recently achieved envious results and let me sincerely congratulate you on that. I know from personal experience that in Brussels, in much of this progress in your approach to the European Union, your sincere desire to resolve open issues with Pristina has been forged. Although I would now guarantee that I am as president of the Slovenian government, and even now as president of the state, in talks with dear European colleagues, I have always advocated the view that Serbia's European future cannot and should not depend solely on this issue, on regulating your relations with Kosovo. My country's position is, as far as I can in accordance with my powers to interpret such an attitude, that Serbia's involvement in the European Union is for many reasons in the direct interest of the European Union itself and that it must sincerely support this process to a happy end. In front of this high house, I would like to give to all our Serbian friends a guarantee that Slovenia will be a strong support for you in your European aspirations. Madam President, honourable MPs and MPs of the National Assembly, your country is a significant regional force. Although in international politics I personally advocate that there be as little classical geopoliticals as possible, this geopolitical exists. The fact that such a significant state, such as yours, regulates and determines its international position by respecting the most noble objectives of the Charter of United Nations, international declarations of respect for human rights and, in particular, in the spirit of European integration of reconciliation, initiates a strong but well-founded expectation that the space of Southeast Europe, or the Western Balkans, will also be a space of peace and prosperity because of your policy in the future. With this intention to do so in the future, the idea of an informal meeting of the leaders of the so-called "Brad" process was born several years ago. His primary mission was the first meeting of the management of the Brdo process last year, and the next meeting will be next month. Last year, French President Holland attended the meeting, and German Chancellor Angela Merkel will take part in the next meeting. The main mission of this project is reconciliation, the establishment of mutual trust between the peoples and countries in this sensitive part of Europe, the peaceful resolution of open neighbouring and regional issues, not only peacefully but in time, before emotional charges make them more difficult to resolve. Its basic mission, because of all this, is to guarantee lasting peace, to establish opportunities for the greater grace of all our people and to believe that the future will be better and more just than it was. I believe this informal process has established good grounds for future co-operation. Madam President, on Sunday, we elected 751 MEPs in the 28 EU countries. As a very committed European, I am concerned about the visible increase in the influence of parties and movements across Europe that see a way to ensure their own national interests in the impasse or even the EU's collapse. I am a committed European and my personal position is that I would like to see the United States of Europe, not the United States, where every nation would connect with its national characteristics with other peoples to speed up the well-being of its people. I must be both democratic and respected by the results of these choices, which, for one reason or another, have produced these results. The European Union is the most important guarantee of peace, security and prosperity for now more than half a billion people. From the results of these last elections, it is clear that we, all of us, not only who are now in the EU, but also you who will soon join the EU and who believe in it, will have to make even more effort in contact with people in order to make European ideas, ideas of reconciliation, co-operation and ideas to build together and work together on what brings us together and not what divides us and become and remain a universal human movement and belief, not just the guides of the narrow political elites. It's our great task and responsibility. In the end, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am honored today to have been able to address this high house and express great gratitude for your attention. I understand my first official visit to friendly Serbia as an exceptional opportunity for Slovenians and Serbs as two nations and two sovereign states to do everything in our mutual power to mutual understanding, friendship and co-operation. Madam President, high home, I've come as a friend, I'm leaving as a friend. I thank you for your warm hospitality. When you visit Slovenia, we'll see you as friends. We have dear ladies and gentlemen an extraordinary opportunity, we have because of our children and an exceptional responsibility to build a better world together. This opportunity, this responsibility is direct. My visit today is that this philosophy, the collaboration of friendship would become not only part of official political co-operation, but also part of an atmosphere among people, Slovenians and Serbs, both in Slovenia and Serbia and wherever we are in the world. Finally, to say once again, it was an extraordinary pleasure and a great honor to have this opportunity today to give a speech in a high home and I will say in the end – let the Slovenian-Serbian friendship live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2391	I hope the MPs will hear me. I conclude the third special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Thank you. (The session is over at 4.30 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2392	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE COURT OF STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT 4th session of the First Regular Session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (Fourth Day of Work) 01 No 06-2/79-14 of 29 May 2014 (The session began at 16.40 p.m. The session is chaired by Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2393	Dear People's MPs, since today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16.30 p.m. to 19.30 p.m. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government under their jurisdiction. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. An oral question, Government, or minister, must be answered orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. If, in the preparation of the response to the parliamentary question, certain facts require a longer or more complex analysis, the time limit for responding to the parliamentary question may be extended but not more than 30 days. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare a two-minute response. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are applied accordingly, by not allowing replicas and references to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I would remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, by giving a change of word first to Members of Parliament who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from the least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2394	Thank you, President. Of course, all the questions will probably be raised today on the subject of the flood, because it's a major disaster that has hit our country and there's hardly any other more interesting topic at this point. My view is that the tragic consequences of the flood could be less, that is, not so severe that all levels of government did their job better than they did. That's why my questions will be raised on that subject, without any previous thought of someone's bad intentions or anything like that. We all had good intentions, but some of those good intentions failed to do so. I will ask all questions to the Prime Minister, and he can delegate them to his ministers. Why has none of the authorities and the authorities responded to the forecast and warning of the Serbia Hydrometeorological Institute, a red warning from May 12th, in which water stops are announced across the border of emergency flood defenses? Why were the directors of "Srbijavoda" and the commanders of Obrenovac Municipality headquarters and Belgrade City headquarters not replaced, when failures in defence of Obrenovac were identified? Who is responsible for the lack of an up-to-date flood protection plan by the “Nikola Tesla” Termopower plant and why aren't the Tent plants and surface spears secured from flood damages? On 25 October 2012, a military exercise “Reka 2012” took place. At that time, Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic and Defence Minister Aleksandar Vucic pledged to, quote -- maximum investment for equipment and funds that would increase the country's resilience to the threat of floods. Why hasn't any of the promised done? Why, when and by what formal act was the commander of the headquarters of the emergency situation of the town of Šapca replaced? Why, when and by what formal act is the commander of the same staff appointed Chief of General Staff, General Dikovic? Why, when and by what formal act is it set up by Boban Birmancevic as Chief of Staff for emergency situations of the town of Sapca? Who, when and in what media reported that the floods had drowned or disappeared 5,000 people? Who, and on what grounds, was arrested for his publications on social networks? Why hasn't the Republic Emergency Staff formed an intelligence and reporting centre to prevent misinformation? Finally, why did the Serbian Government not pass the sublegal acts necessary for the implementation of the Emergency Act, which was adopted in 2003 and amended in 2011, when a deadline of six months was set by Article 146 of that law for the adoption of sublegal acts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2395	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2396	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the people, of course, I think it is very important, especially when we have a large number of tragically injured citizens of Serbia, to establish everyone's responsibility. When it comes to criminal responsibility, it's the work of competent state authorities doing their job. As far as politics is concerned, it will not be difficult for me to answer Mr. Zivkovic, and some questions will be answered surprisingly. I'll try to answer something that, you see, we haven't said in public so far, and we didn't want for a few reasons. The first is to try to get what money we can for our country because of the different kinds of resecuritisation we've managed to cover. But why aren't they secured from the floods and the Colubarians and the Tent? It is not secured because your political party, or a list by which you are elected as a MP, your director did not want to sign the insurance policy and asked to be expelled, otherwise on 1 March 2012, flood protection, or flood damage compensation, and so today we have a big problem in charge of the damage. That's the problem we're trying to solve, we're trying to solve it in all other ways. I hope that face will be examined too. I have no intention of blaming him for wanting this kind of accident, but we certainly lost tens of millions of euros because of such irresponsible behavior. So it happened on 1 March 2012. Also, I want to tell you that we've been really trying and struggling to do everything we can in accordance with the law. Not for a second have we entered any, absolutely no political stories. I don't know who the man you mentioned in Sapco has anything to do with the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, nothing at all. There may be something at the bar, but I really don't know. We also replaced people who were selected on the SNS list and people who were elected on the lists of other political parties, and no one, I think, was particularly interested, except for those who had nothing better to do but criticise those who did something. I have a duty today, as I told you, to declare the number and names of the victims. We hope it's finally because we still have about 8% of the Obrenovac territory underwater, but I'll tell you what the number of missing persons reported is, so you'll be able to figure out exactly who and how and how it works. So, since all the faces, on all faces, have been performed an autopsy, the exact number of drownings is 24 including our members of our fire department. A single person, missing persons, is four more, I'll read to you all the names of those who died naturally in the territory of eight municipalities died in total 26. So, Đorđević Leposava was born in 1946, the face was found in the street of Braća Golubović in Obrenovac; Đorđević Radvoje face born in 1938, also found in the street of Brača Golubović in Obrenovac; Đorđević Radvoje face was born in 1938, also found in the street of Brace Golubović; Malić Đuro, face born in 1938, found in Varyrinište, Obrenovac; Drača Svetlana, born in 1970, found in Piromana, Svetozara Stanković 3; Timotic Živanka, age 1932, Vuk Karadžića 38, Obrenovac; Drača Svetlana, born in 1970, Major Nebojka Tepovac; Đokić Radosava, Major Nebošje Tepić, Maja Nebovecje Tepić, Maja, Maja in 1932, Maja Živna Slavić, Maja Žal, Maja Neko Slavić, Majbić, Majbić, Majbljan Žal, 1936. Now we have Joksic Stanojka, 1951. It's the heat of the Lazarus. Mitrovica Sofia, year 1934, was found in the corit of the Kolubara River, the Lajkovac municipality, as well as drowning. Milosavljevic Milet, found in Ub, Valjevo County, drowning. Vojvodić Milenko, the Obnica River, was born in 1961. Milojkovic Živorad, Veliki Popovici, Jagodina district, Svilajnac municipality. Dejan Lazarevic, a fireman, as we said, the Jasenica River, Kragujevac, Topola. Stojadinović Bosiljka, Prevorica, Sabac County and Velička Divljačković, Krupanj, also drowning. And Simunovic Milan, born in 1942, launched a rink, Brstica, also in Sabac County. Reported missing persons who have not been found so far are: Svetislav Stamenović, Year 1952, Vukosava Obradović, Year 1949, Milina Ristic, Year 1943, Vladeta Milanović, Year 1975. Of course, they're being tracked, which doesn't mean they've been killed. We've had a total of 809 missing persons reports, and as you can see, except for the 18 people who died, we've only got four more people we haven't been able to find. We've really done our best, and of course it's always, whatever you say at this point, you're always in trouble, because you can't explain the loss of human lives. The question is, could we have done more or could we have done better? As far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has put in place an emergency situation in our country's entire territory, we've done our best, saved thousands of people, thousands of people's lives, that's our job, that's our obligation, but I'm proud of the commitment of the people who did this job. Proud of their willingness to work night and night, to fight for their citizens although I know it is always easy to misinformation or semi-information to lead to the dissatisfaction of any of these citizens or anyone else in Serbia, since this is the best success in our country. As for the consequences of whether they could be less, as you say, they might be, but I don't know how. Maybe if someone had predicted and said that Tamnava was going to hit the tip of the Colubara and that Kolubara was going to come back upriver, no one predicted it. It wasn't possible otherwise. When you talk about the defense of the Defense Officer, we had announcements that Sava would be increased in the city of Dubok, took all measures, brought the sacks, brought the boats, prepared everything. But already with a dispatch of 161-745/14 since 12 May, through the operational centres, the Emergency Sector has given a preliminary warning to all headquarters commanders for emergency situations and expected quantities of rainfall. So, the Ministry of Emergency, the government of the Republic of Serbia, reacted absolutely on time, exactly, in time and when possible, on 12 May 2014. The heavy rainfall on the territory of the Republic of Serbia began on the night between 13 and 14 May 2014. From that moment on, the sector began monitoring events in the territory of the Republic of Serbia during all 24 hours. A complete operational composition of fire-saving units as well as all specialist water rescue and working teams has been activated. Events on the ground have conditioned the need to dislocate the teams of these units led by the Emergency Sector. They were all put on alert on May 13th, and their mobilization and preventive dislocation in areas where they were realistically expected to be first affected by the flood was carried out on May 14th. A Belgrade team with seven members is headed to Loznica and part of a team of five members in Osijek. A team from Nis is also sent to those locations. Then they set out to save their faces in the area of the municipality of Ljig and Lykovac, and then Valjev. A newly-sad team of firefighters and rescuers with three vehicles and three boats was sent to Cačak and part of the Royal team to Valjevo. The civil protection team took part in the rescue activities in Lazarevec on 14 May and 15 May. All the forces we've had up to the moment, the night that's gone unrecorded so far, and as experts say about those who don't know it, it's not the fact that someone checked what it was and how it was thousands of years ago or what it was, but experts call it thousands of years of water because it's the possibility that these floods happen once in a thousand years. So, we faced each other in the territory, first of all, of the Obrenovac municipality. We have fully mobilized all specialised units and I would say all my forces and Belgrade, and Serbia, all units of the police, are headed to Obrenovac. We even made, I would say, a timely decision at headquarters to take boats from the Belgrade marina that could be used. Of course, it was not possible to use everything, it was not possible to use yachts because of gauze, but what was possible to use and how many trained people we had for all of it, absolutely everything was hired. I am obliged to express great gratitude to the people who have saved thousands of people, people who have suffered unpleasantly, curses, beatings, for the understandable reasons of people's dissatisfaction, but who knew that their mission and their job was to save lives and to do so in the best possible way. We only pulled over 4,500 people out of Obrenovac during two nights, over 4,500 people from Obrenovac in the most difficult conditions all the time guided by what was said by the Hydrometeorological Institute, Serbia water and Belgrade lead. Here we have an unfortunate problem that has been standing for decades, which is mixing the authority with Serbia water, Belgrade water, Vojvodina water because we have been trying to share everything in order to make as much as possible, as part of it as possible, which some other staff in some places have employed even though they were mostly professional people. That's what I have to say about all three institutions and Serbia lead and the Vojvodina waters and Belgrade waters. Obeying their instructions, acting responsibly, acting very, very consecratedly, fighting for their people, for every house and for every man. When the crisis headquarters was formed in Šapac, as the manager of the flood defence, General Ljubisa Dikovic, Chief of Staff, the person you mentioned was not familiar. As far as the only possible question, when it comes to human lives, as far as the damage is concerned, we'll have more time to talk, a lot more things, you'll be surprised at all the data there is. But as far as human lives are concerned, there was one objective problem for which responsibility has to be borne, but I also want to tell you that it can bear the responsibility of the whole of Serbia to be completely honest. Today we have only 17% of the correct sirens in Serbia, so all the sirens did not work in Obrenovac. There was a siren, some said two, and it was confirmed that one was working, it wasn't enough. If you are now analysing the situation in Serbia in just 17% of municipalities, one siren, only so much that you have in mind the state of our country and how much we have all cared about in the previous 10 and 15 and 20 and I don't know how many years. So that was a key problem. Otherwise, it was most urgent, at 3:15 p.m., the water started to blue, primarily Sljevica, Belo Polje and Rvata, I'm talking about this key day, I'm not talking about the first day when some other settlements were threatened, and there are the authorities of the Serbian state that appeared within no longer than 90 minutes, with all their available powers and began to save the population. As far as I'm concerned, that's all I can tell you. As for Kolubara and TENT, I was hoping that I wouldn't have to answer to you today, I will also provide you with an insurance policy in the course of this debate so that you can see for yourself, so in the course of the year 1,03.2012, flood insurance as an elemental accident, a very irresponsible act, but I don't want to think, and I'm sure that the financial reasons were the motive of that person and not some others, but of course Serbia is because of that or Serbia will undoubtedly lose dozens of millions of euros. It happened that it was at the time of some other authorities, some other people, it could have been at this time, I don't think there would have been any difference. I think it's a question to a man, not to a political party. I want to thank all the citizens of Serbia who have shown great love for their country, unselfishly supported the efforts of the whole country and the entire population to help vulnerable areas, I think that in the most difficult conditions we have managed, since I have analysed both the floods in Germany and the floods in France, the victims and the number of deaths and in one and the other country that are incomparably more developed and incomparably ahead of us, of course whatever you say in the problem, but what I think no one can say at any moment in anything that could be a problem no one can say that we have given everything of ourselves and that we have not fought for our people with all our heart and our strength. I want to thank everyone from abroad who's... Minister, if you could just have some attention, please. I want to thank all the people from abroad who have sent us huge help and support, I want to thank those who risked their lives and the picture from Obrenovac at the moment when two of our rescuers carry a flood to Savi, in which you can't help, the Russian savior jumps and saves both of them, a picture in which Slovenians, Montenegrins, Macedonians and all other joint forces are struggling with our special forces to help our people is something we need to remember and that when these people are threatened in any way help. Also, I want to thank all the governments for their great support, and I want to ask some who, for political reasons, have always wanted to demean some countries and some peoples, to ask them, to always respect those who have given us the most support, and now I tell you financially, we have received with the EU, as an organization, the most convincing support from the United Arab Emirates, and I want to especially thank Norway and I want to especially thank Algeria, but of course all the other countries they have done, because this is about the huge amounts of money they have paid at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I want the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to know that and that if they are in any kind of trouble, God forbid, we should be grateful. Another sentence, we would probably be faced with a greater disaster, regardless of our efforts and work and the great success that people and volunteers and the Mitrovicas and the Capcans achieved, in defending their cities, if it wasn't for a little luck, hard to defend Mitrovica and Shabac, because it wasn't just a matter of water stops, but it was a matter of pressure and water power. We had water on our bags for seven days. If it hadn't been for Sava jumping out of the trough in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, first of all, we, frankly, can say it in front of you, no matter what we did and how we did, couldn't defend it. We did everything we could, we did everything we could, we saved both Shabac and Mitrovica, we kept it, not counting the Jamen that died from the flood and all the Shid village, but I don't want to deceive anyone, because we kept it, someone would say with a little bit of luck, and someone would say with God's help, with whatever you want, it wasn't just the result of our work, it was the kind of help that came to us unexpectedly. Once again, I want all the families of the victims, and there are members of the families of the MPs to express my condolences, to say that the competent state authorities and this has nothing to do with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, question the possible criminal responsibility of every person in the chain involved in defending against the floods, and no one wants to avoid such responsibility in any way. What is doubtless, do not make it out of natural disaster and natural disaster, anyone trying to make a political issue, especially at a time when I am absolutely certain that this government did the best and most possible, fought for its people, fought for every life. Could something have been better? Well, I'm sure it is. Is there any more help or less? I'm sure it is. But, you know, look at the analysis of the events after the tsunami, after the flood on Elba in Germany, which is much closer to us, you'll see that the situation in our country was such that we acted in these conditions, so that we acted in the conditions that were best possible. At the same time, I would like to point out once again, as you sometimes call for European criteria, all EU representatives, all UN representatives expressed their admiration and were impressed by the Serbian state's reaction to the disastrous consequences of the floods in Serbia. We reacted quickly, reacted seriously, and reacted responsibly. Unfortunately, we haven't managed to save all human lives. Thousands have. We organized everything else as it was possible under certain conditions. I hope that we will come out of this crisis as people who have a vision and we know how to rebuild the country, as people who know how to not get in the way that we started, but as people who see Serbia's future well, we understand well what our tasks are in the future and that, after all, we will be able to respect each other more than we did yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2397	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2398	The data you've reported on the deceased or the victims is severe and there's no dilemma about it. We're all complicit in that. In praise to professionals, firefighters, rescuers, cops, soldiers, all volunteers who participated in rescue and rescue, we share this together, this whole gratitude, but I didn't get a single answer to any of the questions I asked, nor did I have any intention of politicizing my questions. You said about Tent that someone on my list in 2012... I wasn't in any party particularly active, or at all active, I don't know who man is, but it's been two years since 01.03.2012, so this insurance contract could have been changed several times, and I can't take that as an excuse. I don't think it's right to blame all of Serbia, God, and I don't know what else we had as a reason why it happened to us, for every missed opportunity to do something that is the obligation of an organ or an individual. Individual responsibility can be found. I'm not accusing anyone, I'm only asking how we're gonna get there. As far as Capca and that staff are concerned, Boban Burmancevic, whom you do not know, by my knowledge, is the MP of your party in this House, the director of Telecom in Šapco, who, according to the information I have and which needs to be checked, set himself up as chief of staff on 25 May this year. I also have a photocopy of the file here. It's also the seal of that headquarters, which is probably out of the law. I know it's a difficult situation. Of course, all of us living in this country for more than 20 years have various memories of difficult situations. We had a situation together 15 years ago, when you were a minister, and I was president of the Nish City Assembly, when the same was a very emergency -- the bombing of Serbia by the NATO Pact. At that time, also 5% of the sirens did not work, and we have obviously learned nothing since then and there is, of course, the collective responsibility of politicians in Serbia since the Serbians deal with politics and lately intensely, but I expect the precise answers to my questions that I have asked you. There were a lot of them. I can give them to you in writing. I think both I and this parliament and the citizens of Serbia have the right to those answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2399	The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2400	You know, I've tried to answer you every second in a very decent way and every question you've asked. I even tried to answer for Mr. Birmancevic, deliberately telling you that I don't know what he was in Sapco, because there was nothing to do with the Serbian Government or the Emergency Sector. What he did or what someone else did, that's their business. I don't know what they were doing. She had nothing to do with us. I think it also makes it clear to the citizens of Serbia what our relationship is and that it is not a party, but a serious and responsible relationship. As for Tent and your explanation -- someone could have changed, don't say anything. Someone should've walked into the Colubary to check out the insurance policies. Someone was supposed to check every insurance policy paper and say, "You're out of flood insurance." Your authority, Mr. Zivkovic, has thrown out that flood insurance section, your authority. Those best executives you were talking about in "Collabari" threw it out, and now it's not the one who threw it out after 20 and 30 years of insurance policy in "Colubara" guilty, it's the one who didn't check it out, so he didn't throw it in in in the meantime. It's really a nadal logic that no one lives in this country can understand. That's how you're allowed. That is how you are allowed to speak. They are good volunteers, these are good ones, and we are guilty. Why? Because 18. In 05, I visited seven municipalities that were flooded. I worked 22 hours that day, and you, Mr. Zivkovic, as things show, boasted about your new limousine. While you boasted of your new limousine, I visited the flooded people and helped the flooded people. That's what we're different about, Mr. Zivkovic. You know, everyone in this country has learned to criticize everyone and talk about what they want. I've answered you in absolutely the best and only possible way, trying not to get into a political debate when it comes to flooded areas. Now let me ask you a question. Let me go of empty stories, rather than tell me in accordance with the law, in accordance with the laws and powers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you know who is in charge of the floods and how many local self-governments, how many "Serbians", how many HMZs, tell me what the Serbian Government did not do, but could take action according to the law to make it better and more? I think it's something else. With all that we forgive ourselves, I know it by myself from the old days, everything we forgive ourselves 10 times, the other we are not able to do once, and everything we don't see with ourselves, with others we see. Everything we don't blame ourselves, we resent everyone else. Please tell me, taxicab by point, what it is to resent the Serbian government. We'll talk about local headquarters somewhere else. It's not the National Assembly to discuss the responsibility of local self-government. Other authorities are discussing the responsibility of local self-government. Tell me what in accordance with the law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not do in the best, most responsible and precise way possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2401	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2402	I am not satisfied with the answer for clear reasons. You'll ask me questions when I'm sitting here as prime minister and when you're an MP or never. What the government has failed to do for all this time is all that the duchy headquarters has done at the helm with Goran Jesic. As for 2012 and my party, since 2004, I am probably the most fierce critic and opponent of the DS in Serbia. This Democratic Party in 2007 or 2008 founded your SNS. I was against it and today I am against them and against everything they have done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2403	Please, MPs, comment on the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2404	I agree with almost all the criticisms that you have made in relation to the DS from 2004 to today. It's mostly what we agree on, but it's not an excuse. If you could, when you entered the Serbian government, check how many cars there are, how many staples there are, and that's the main thing, someone could check out what insurance contracts are, especially when the May moon floods are very expected in Serbia, and especially in Obrenovac, which is not alerted, and there floods happen every year. I don't want this to be politicized, but the condition that was... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2405	It's been two minutes. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Why did I pass the time? Ambassador Zivkovic, I really think you've been mobing already with me. I think the chairman of the assembly. The question is from Anamaria Vicek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2406	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask the question, as a member of the SVM parliamentary group, to Mr Srdjan Verbic. The issue concerns the differentiated teaching of Serbian as not native language, which is an extremely important issue for us, and not for us alone. Differentiated teaching of Serbian as non- native language is an important topic, because there is a huge difference in language mastering among members of national minorities whose native language is similar to the Serbian language, for example. Bosnian, Slovak, Croatian, etc., or minority whose native language differs from Serbian, such as Hungarian, Albanian, Romanian, etc. There is also a big difference in overcoming Serbian in settlements where there is a higher percentage of the population of Serbian nationality, i.e. in towns where there is a higher percentage of the population of others, e.g. Hungarian nationality, such as Ada, Senta, Kanjiža, Bačka Topola. The question I ask you on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group is what are the concrete steps that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development will take to address this situation as soon as possible? Namely, it is necessary to develop a differentiated plan and programme for teaching Serbian as not native language, as well as to prepare textbooks for teaching them. The Union of Duchy Hungarians considers it realistic that this new, elaborated plan and programme for Serbian as not native language are being developed until the start of school 2015/16. And we offer you absolute support and cooperation. I remind you that a group of experts from the Pedagogical Institute of Vojvodina in co-operation with the Regional Secretariat for Education, the Faculty of Philosophy in Novi Sad and with the Committee on Education of the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority developed a plan and programme for the differentiated teaching of Serbian as not native language in 2007. In correspondence between the ministry, the Pedagogical Institute, the Regional Secretariat, the Education and Education Institute, has been a long time and the ministry has not solved the problem in the previous term. The SVM parliamentary group sincerely hopes that the Ministry of Education will address this problem in this call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2407	The word has Minister Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2408	This problem with differentiated Serbian language study is in the Education Development Strategy and this strategy has been adopted. What hasn't been brought in at this point is an action plan. The action plan is currently under review and the plan is for the action plan to be adopted by September. What we know is that there is a proposal and a working group is dealing with this proposal. We do not have much time left until September to complete the action plan, but if this plan is completed, there will be no particular technical problems to implement for 2015/2016. A year in the program. At this point, the task force is working on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2409	Are you satisfied with the answer? Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2410	Can I just make a comment? Thank you. On behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, I would like to express my satisfaction with this response, as our goal was to apply this plan and programme from 2015/16. A year. This is an extremely important topic for us, given that there are many children, students who attend teaching in the Hungarian language, and besides, they have no chance of mastering Serbian as not their mother tongue regularly. That is why, after schooling in Serbia, they are forced to work abroad, as they cannot be employed because of language, i.e. to continue schooling in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2411	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2412	Dear Presidents, honourable representatives and representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will return to the first topic, coming from the municipality of Sremska Mitrovica, which has not received media attention as some other municipalities, but the situation, as you know, has been extremely critical. It's been an honor to be, at least a small part of something that may have been the biggest piece of work in our city's history. I am proud of all our fellow citizens and I think many lessons can be learned from how this situation is solved in our local self-government. No matter who is from which political option, it happened that people from different parties were very well and easily able to work together. I think it is something that should be an example and an example, regardless of whether it was Mr. Jesic, who did his job well as Chief of Staff, the people of Vojvodina's water, who were extremely professional, Mr. Milan Kovacevic, who was from SNS, here my colleague, Mr. Edimovic, who is the mayor and thousands of people who responded by themselves to the invitation and placed 800 thousand sacks. The city was defended about 60 centimeters above the historic maximum in 1974. What I may need to hear from you – are we going to try to see the situation after this in a way that we might pass a new Civil Protection Act? There are some experiences, even in the region. Let's say, Slovenia, there was a president there just now. There's been some experience from a long time ago. We don't think everything that used to happen was bad. We laughed at once the famous general public defense, social self-defense and that class in schools, but it turns out that today a bunch of it doesn't work out that we don't have local media, which can in time inform people, sirens, etc. I think we should all sit together. Although we are opposition, we offer co-operation and support in this area to finally adopt a regulation that will provide for people to be trained, to know the command structure, to know who is doing what and how it works. You don't need to politicize this subject excessively. I think this was a great example to see how unity can still defeat people who are from different ideological, political, social and economic layers and, when it comes to common interest, can be put into service of common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2413	The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2414	So, first of all, I want to thank you for everything you've said since it's true, and as you say, Mr Nikolic has been very professional and ours, yours, every government has done a good job in Mitrovica and, above all, the Mitrovicans have done a great job, but so have many who have come to help them from Novi Sad, Belgrade and other places, but, of course, the Mitrovicans. 760,000 sacks were made. Imagine that force that the Mitrovicans on both sides of the river, the sensual and the masculine, managed to do. He's in Pupco and more. It showed how capable we are of doing when we are a unique and united good job for our country. In all that, as you know, many don't like it when it's said, both Mitrovica and we were all a little bit happy. We could have defended it, say the experts, Mitrovica at 917. It wasn't real. Already at 880, 890 there's no doubt that we'd be given a break to our sacks and the water would break through. Fortunately, this did not happen for some other reasons and once again I congratulate on the great courage of the Mitrovicans, as well as the Chapians and many others. It was an extraordinary example for the future that shows that when we want and want to do a lot together we can do and do a lot. As far as your proposal is concerned, it is one of the proposals we are considering and in the coming months such a proposal will appear before you MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today I spoke to Romana Jakic, Minister of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, who told me about their experiences in civil protection and that we must sign an agreement with them so that they can direct us to the civil protection concept of this kind of assistance and support. It's one of the things we're going to have to solve in the next period. What represents a bigger problem, and I won't hide it from you so it won't be when they say it - we'll invest, so we'll invest and now and I'll tell you right now won't be enough. It won't be enough because we need tens of millions, not to say hundreds of millions of euros to defend our country from spilling out the waterbeds. We don't have that money. What is urgent at this time is to restore the embankments primarily on those lush waters that have caused a huge disaster, such as these four rivers – Dragon, Kržva, Bogoštica and Likodra in Krupanj. Let's do the same thing in the Colubara Basin, do the same thing in the Tamnave Basin, do the same thing in the entire sea basin, and after that, to tell you the truth, I don't know where we're going to find the money. We all have to be more responsible and it's not what we learned now, we know, we don't have the money. Now I go out to the people, and I say, "Now we've learned, and now we're going to make things right." Hardly. We'll have fires in August, not to say July. The climate's changing. We're going to have more and more elemental accidents and people who think it's not going to happen... None of this will surprise us, so we'll try to strengthen this Nish center, get more planes and helicopters, have more power to defend against fires. Will it be perfect and will it be ideal? He won't. If you have any further idea how and in any way not to spend the money from some division, to invest it in this, please tell us. I think it's a fair and responsible relationship, as I think you are. We've got big problems. We're going to have more and more trouble with the elemental disasters, no less than more. Since I've asked the Germans and Austrians how much these dikes cost, the dikes they have and after the flood, say in the town of Pasau of 55,000 people who have suffered a disaster, they've raised the embankments that we can't pay in the next 50 years. It depends on the state of our economy. Depends on how much we're going to work in other areas, how much the state can make. If we raise our economy, we can invest more. If we don't do it, we won't be able to. We're left to patch up the holes that are currently made, to watch where we can add something else to be more protected than today, and more than to be promised neither possible nor real, although I know how it goes every time something happens – now we're going to get that and that. We want to buy a helicopter, and we don't have any money. When I said and asked you, I know there are MPs who know what the state is and I ask all MPs who know it well, and that's the largest number, that we just don't attack those who help us the most because of some of us getting, I'm sorry, 10 million each. You know how much money that is. For 200,000, we would have shown ourselves 500 times at press conferences so far. We can buy a better helicopter for that. We'll pray for those helicopters to get a present. What can I tell you? That's a lot of money we don't have. That's why I'm pleased, and I didn't just happen to thank everyone who helped us so much in money and in all other ways because I know how much we don't have, because I know the state of our finances, I know the state of our cash register. That's why I'm telling you this in a responsible way. So it's important that whatever we can fix, we fix it as soon as possible. We're going to ask for your support and we're going to ask, that's our idea, that a representative of any opposition party who wants to make sure and control the money spent on rebuilding the country be welcome. I think it's a fair offer and it's a correct idea because we want everyone to have an insight into how money is spent, to see what we've given that money for. Today I can boast that today with a cut at 12.00 hours we have a lot more money than yesterday. It's thanks to two big donations from friendly countries. That money isn't enough to cover half the road infrastructure, and then you can think of the disaster we're facing. Except through Zavlak, you from Krupanja have nowhere else to go. It's not about the water. It's about the slide. We've got 300 slides here, 300 slides there. In Baja's garden, they say 1,000. We don't know what to do. Since I was there two days ago, we've got 25 houses that haven't been damaged, and they've got a rink up to four meters to the house. We don't have the money to put all these people away. We don't have easy money to feed all these people. They live normal. You can't even drive them out of their homes because they're tied to their houses, and whatever happens tomorrow, someone's going to say, "You haven't responded in time and you haven't responded before." You're always faced with countless problems. Some you can give an answer to. You can't answer some, and don't forget that we often play with nature and forget what nature can do because it's always the easiest thing for us to find the culprit in our environment, the one where we can find anger. For this, with all our mistakes, all of our proverbial vanity, problems, disorganization, whatever you want, the state has really reacted better in certain segments than some Western countries. But we're just going to face natural disasters and we're going to have problems this summer. Will we be able to solve everything? We won't. If you can help with ideas and any other way, and you're welcome, Mr. Stojsic and anyone else who wants to gain insight and help their country in this way, and control money and everything else. I am proud of the fact that I have contributed little to my country because some of the people we have made friends with have made the most financial contribution to rebuilding our beautiful country. Thank you for your correctness and for all that you and the other Mitrovicans have done for your city and your country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2415	The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2416	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers and fellow MPs, the SPO has never used this situation to try to score cheap political points. So we will try to speak today, and that the time we have to devote exclusively so that citizens can get concrete answers to the questions they expect for days. Unfortunately, in the last few days, I'd dare say, and Sundays we're all witnesses, and even the MPs sitting here, who the citizens think have enough information, we're all kind of bombed by some misinformation or semi-information that we've had the opportunity to see in the media. That's why I think it is more than useful that this number of ministers are present today, so that citizens, in the first place, and of course we MPs, i.e. The people they chose had the opportunity to hear concrete answers. First, I would ask Mr Stefanovic, since unfortunately we are always dealing with the consequences, not the prevention. It seems to me like a case today. When a disaster happens, we always talk about the consequences, and prevention always stays out of the way. We all know that the most critical situation during the elementary disasters affecting Serbia was in Obrenovac. I was wondering what problems the members of the MUP faced in the rescue of citizens and members of the Republic of Serbia's Army? I want to say this for one reason, because in a situation like this, citizens are very often prone to disqualify both the members of the MUP and the members of the army. I think this way, Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to respond to such insinuations. My second question is, could the consequences of natural disasters have been less if rescue teams had richer and better equipment, or could they not have been better off defending themselves even a much more equipped state than this disaster? More specifically, what is it that we don't have, and we could have had that we've been working and thinking preventively? I would take the chance that during my first address, and the second one will be directed towards Mr. Vukic, to welcome your ministry's proposal, Mr. Stefanovic, that citizens who have lost their IDs get absolutely free of charge. I think such information is more than useful to hear today in order for citizens to know what it takes to get the documents as soon as possible. To someone, this seems funny when it comes to issues like this, but I think these topics are much more important than who was in power, who did what he couldn't and couldn't do it. I think there's going to be an opportunity to talk about it, and this time, let's put these topics down to citizens' level, that's all. to the level of those people who expect to get an explanation. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2417	The word has Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2418	Thank you on behalf of the M.O.P. For these really nice words. I can tell you that we are all, and the Prime Minister pointed that out, proud of what the people of the Emergency Sector were doing. We lost the life of one of our members, Dejan Lazarevic, who lost his life as a member of the fire rescue team by saving another man. We had a huge number of people, an average of over 7.5 thousand people per day employed by the MUP. As for Obrenovac, it was really a specific situation because it was very difficult to predict that both Tamnava and Kolubara and Sava would blue the same city in a very short time. What's good is that the state has shown serious responsibility, what's shown is that we can work quickly and efficiently together and I think that the units and the police and the military and the volunteers and all the others, later and the rescuers who have been involved from other countries, have shown one huge commitment. I was with these people and with other ministers who participated in those nights and days in Obrenovac saving people, encouraging them, leading them in different ways of making sure people didn't feel they were alone. I think that was our great contribution to that. I think the moves that were made were, of course, the maximum we could give. As far as problems are concerned, the problems have been diverse, ever since you look at those technical ones, that as you ride boats at night in streets that have no lights, you have to avoid cars that you can't see are flooded, fences, tractors, anything that was on those roads, to the essentials of course, I'd prefer that we had modern helicopters that we could fly at night. Unfortunately, we can't do that, because as you heard from the Prime Minister, on a modern helicopter that is in the class of Bell helicopters, which is used by the police, which has up to six to seven seats next to the pilot costs almost 10m euros. These are funds that the Republic of Serbia simply doesn't have. Imagine if we had 20 of those helicopters, sure as hell we could do more and faster. What I want to assure you is that the people of the ranks of the MUP and the Special Forces, I must especially point out, the role of our headquarters commander Mr. Milenko Bozovic, the commander of the Gandarmeria, that these people are together with the members of the CIA and the PTJ, police brigades from Belgrade day and night working without even thinking about whether it's dark, whether it's light, whether it's dangerous, whether the current is strong, whether the water is cold. We had a situation where several members of the brigade found themselves at the Emergency Center just because they were frozen, because they walked in the water for hours bringing people out of the houses. They were truly heroes, the exploits of men that I would never forget. As far as this better equipment is concerned, I hope that in the coming years as the country's economy improves, because it is a fundamental issue of our country, that we will be able to gradually separate more money for the Emergency Sector, but also for all other labour lines, both the MUP and the military, and that we will be able to have more modern means that will help us to do this job more quickly and efficiently. We are facing challenges with droughts and possible fires that we must also pay attention to. Our job is to be in strategic co-operation in the region and in the world we try to ensure that our centers rely not only on our own forces, which we do not always have enough, but also on a technique that has other countries and of course we try to be faster and more efficient in the coming period. What I think is that these people to whom we really owe enormous gratitude have shown incredible strength, have shown incredible courage, and in this period I think they have managed to save a huge number of lives in both Obrenovac and other municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2419	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. I apologize, MP Zika Gojkovic, supplemental. Here you go, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2420	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would like to dedicate the second part of the presentation to Prime Minister Vukic. I'll try to say something that's part of my perception when it comes to this disaster that has hit us, trying not to ask a very specific question, but hopefully you'll have some comment on what I'm about to say. You said yourself that we play very often with nature. That's right. We always talk about it, but very often we do something concrete that doesn't happen, that we don't play with nature. I think one non-responsibility to nature is one of the main reasons why this happened to us today. Just creating a system is something that can help if disaster like this happens, at least minimize the consequences of something like that. I think it is more than necessary to change one complete system, one system where everyone who is deaf will be severely punished, that is, endangering nature in any way, that we will also severely punish those who are still illegally building, as well as those who at the level of local self-government allow such situations to happen, where then we have the chance that the whole of Serbia, or in every municipality, is one part of where illegal construction is. Unfortunately, then it is no wonder what consequences we have when such a disaster occurs. I also think that in these days we've talked a lot about how we should be unique. Unfortunately, we as politicians do not set the right example very often. I don't think we can even ask citizens to be unique as long as we're not here and as long as we're not here, and even this kind of thing, we're using to make political points exclusively for the parties to get cheap political points. What is also important and what has shown this disaster in my personal and modest opinion is that party trade in the mayor's election can only be bad, that the compromises that are being made then are exclusively rotten compromises based on the interests of the citizens and that when we don't have a situation where the city's leader is really a real leader, a man who has the courage to take the stand and make a decision even when that decision isn't up to him, that such a man can save hundreds, thousands of lives, and that the one who's placed exclusively after a political spin has no opportunity, has no courage to come to a problem to solve the problem. Unfortunately, I think it has also shown itself in these situations, and that is why I would appeal to all party presidents, especially you, Mr. Vukic, who are today the political figure everyone sees and who is the greatest authority in this country, so that, in future, you and everyone else know that there are a lot of people behind your name who don't deserve to be at the level of local self-government at certain functions and that it has been so in the past for all political parties and that this should be corrected in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2421	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2422	I thank Mr Gojkovic. I am fully agreed with you, especially with regard to this last part. That's why we haven't talked for a moment about political parties and we haven't divided people by municipalities into those from this party or that party. So first of all, I commended some people from some other parties or not in any political organization. There were people who belonged to SNS who were good and they were doing their job quickly, and there were those who were doing their job badly. There were some of the other political parties that were none and they were better off not being the president of the municipalities and there were those who properly carried out their task. It's not a simple situation, and not all people get along the same way. It's not an easy situation, but you're right, and if I have options, as party president, I'll deal with it, but don't take my word for it, because I have a lot of other obligations. I hope that some other party bodies will do the same. I'm proud of the fact that we haven't treated each other badly in any way for those who think differently about other questions. I am sorry that many have abused the difficult situation in which Serbia is, counting on it to be politically elevated, which has been deceived by the public, not under their own name, but under the names of other people, about the number of victims, about how we keep dead people in the freezers and hide them, about how we burn them in high furnaces in Lazarevec, by the way, we do not have a high furnace in Lazarec, making up the worst and most terrible things without any responsibility, causing huge damage to the state of Serbia, even writing a letter in the territory of our country as human rights and freedoms are threatened because they censored "Pink Music" and "Fox Life". Imagine, the famous anti-regime channels "Pink Music" and "Fox Life". But what to do, unfortunately, is part of our folklore. I resent myself for being in one sentence today, though, only in one sentence did I allow myself to answer in a political way to one MP and I am sorry about that. Of course, Mr. Zivkovic, I provided for you, since you said I didn't give you anything concrete but I said something, so I wouldn't read to you right now, it's about the big problems that have been created for us, about the many rotors from Field "B", Field "D", the Dark East Field, the Dark West Field. I told you the exact date. It went on from March 1st, otherwise the decision was made on February 6th. I can tell you what the faces are, it's a double signature. So, I've completely checked you out and given you the exact information. As soon as we're done with today's debate, I'll get you a full piece of paper. So, Mr. Gojkovic, I think that we all, I'm always here, and I don't find it hard to admit it, we have to change ourselves and we have to try to do something that's not the most common thing in nature. When you asked Nebojsa Stefanovic about the things we faced earlier, there were many unpleasant and difficult situations, which many of us, especially the rescuers didn't deserve, but that's the thing you have to go through. That is why I did not accidentally say I was Minister Selakovic – imagine the guilt of the minister of justice over the floods in Krupanj. Of course he has no responsibility or guilt at all. He was attacked, but it's his job. His job is to be attacked, and when he's not guilty, and he's guilty, and he's answering it, to act serious, to act civilized, and never to go down to that level that differently, except in words to those who attack him. It's no shame. Shame is possible for some who have had such a reaction, but it is understandable, too, given the facts of what they are and what suffering people have been through and what pains they have suffered. Anyway, this is for us, it's true, it's a great experience. Tomorrow we'll be smarter than we'll ever be, I believe, no one's going to cause any trouble in evacuating us. I'll tell you, only three days later when Baritch was evacuated, we evacuated him within two hours. The great Baric, therefore, is a great place, several thousand people, has been evacuated within two hours. All the people listened. Unfortunately, we had to suffer a great tragedy in order for all people to understand that we needed to listen to decisions and orders of the state authorities in such a situation. I also want to thank the National Assembly and the People's MPs for the allocated financial resources and for the support and assistance they have provided to their people in every place, and I would say to my country. As for the burden, one man said, "I know who will be guilty in this land and for the rain." I don't have a problem with being guilty of both rain and snow and I don't know what it is, but I would like those who show me such hatred, not primarily of politicians, to show a member of the law or any sublegal act that the government didn't fully respect, or that the Serbian government didn't do anything that was its obligation. Since I've been through all the legal acts, all the sublaws I know, the government has really done everything it can, shown great commitment and love for its country. Whether everyone in the chain did it or not, that's what the competent state authorities are questioning. As you can see, they do it thoroughly, they do it seriously, and they do it responsibly. Once again I pray to all of them, I hope they are, too, because I don't want to believe that they did this on purpose and that they wanted to be more dead than they are, no one in this country is crazy, no sick, no abnormal, don't, as God please, make up coolers, no burns high, and I don't know what kind of nonsense. As God I pray you, it only harms Serbia, huge damage is done to Serbia, so nobody gets anything, just hate and anger. I don't understand what the goal is or what the meaning of all these stories is. Here, today you've got the names of all people, and you can get the names and all the deceased faces. On average, 1.75 people die daily in Obrenovac under the most normal conditions, not under the conditions of great stress and major problems facing the city. So every piece of information you get. You'll get a full report and you'll be able to say what you agree with and what you disagree with. What's most important to us at this point is that we try to get a big elan, with great power and with great hope that we can get the country out of the situation it's in, we go into recovery. I've prepared for you today to read, but I'm going to try to avoid what all the experts have written and what statements they've made and what words they've spoken, which I hope no one normal in this country will ever think of saying again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2423	Zika Gojkovic has the word, two minutes to comment and we are moving to the issue of Miroslav Markevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2424	I'll just use the very short time I have left. I agree, Mr. Vukic, with what you said and I just want to say that as far as the mayor and president of the municipality who choose political parties on their responsibility, I think they bear it to the greatest extent the president but almost all parties. I wouldn't want to turn out to be attacking one party or another, I wouldn't even want to take my own party apart that needs to share the same responsibility as everyone else. I think that's very important and I'd just like to mention two more things that I've managed to notice and which I might need to think about in the future, as a prevention, not only when it comes to such disasters, but maybe something else bad, which could be prepared for Serbia, which we need to be prepared for. I find it very easy to miss the opportunity to maybe open up a bigger public debate when it comes to military service. This kind of situation brings us back to these topics and as someone who is, or I don't want anyone to go through like I did, and members of my generation who, when they were 18, 19 years old, served military service on the battlefield, but I think that every man should have the opportunity to serve a military deadline, to get to know some things, the hard things that could be found, especially when it comes to such disasters. I also think you should consider amending the law when it comes to penalties, i.e. when it comes to dealing with all those who try to steal in this situation, to cheat, to embezzle something on the people's misfortune, that this country must be much more rigorous and that these measures must be stronger and sharper in order to show all of our strength and strength to the institutions. Once again, I will conclude with this, I believe that the responsibility of individuals in these situations, especially the mayor and the president of the municipalities, is extremely important and that the effect on one side of the indicator, let's say, what Mr Jesic is in Vojvodina and some other mayors who simply didn't manage or know what they were supposed to do, in such situations he knows to be crucial.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2425	The right to question is Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2426	President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister, Ministers, fellow MPs, I will ask questions in the form of perhaps some proposals on behalf of the NS parliamentary group, I hope that we MPs, or the National Assembly, at the most recent time, what the Prime Minister was talking about, will have a full report and then we will be able to give assessments or blame someone or praise someone. In my first address, I tried to insist on some topics that may not be the top of the topic at this point, and it seems to me that the citizens are very interested, because life goes on, we have to think that in the next day, in the month, in two and in the year least, these people will live. I would have a series of proposals, i.e. questions for Mr. Vulin – whether he and his ministry are already considering, have ready proposals that the Government, as regards government powers, would mean regulations, or as regards amendments and additions to some of the laws that we have here in the National Assembly, which would be concerned by those regulations or amendments and amendments to the laws of citizens that would actually be social measures and that would last at least a year? Let's just say that the people of Obrenovac, of course not all of them, didn't all suffer happily in Obrenovac, were freed from electricity payments for a year. It'll be maybe a few hundred or a few thousand households. It'll mean a lot to them, and the EPS won't fail. And it's probably 20, 30% of the citizens or the electricity users don't pay the electricity, they're connected to the wild. Is it considered, for example, my proposal to abolish people's property taxes even though it is the authority of municipalities and cities? To not pay for other utility services of water, taking out garbage? Whether students and students from those territories may be considered not to pay tuition for at least a year, that students do not pay for transportation and students and all that everyone now has to pay for. I believe and I know it should be very precise to keep a record. Maybe it's the look at this moment because of situations where many households and people who have survived and one night lost all their property is not something significant, but believe that many of them, and I believe that most of them are safe citizens and that so far they've paid all these taxes and that they will pay when they're able to do it again?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2427	The word has a minister named Vulin. Still, the word has the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2428	I thank Mr Markicevic, and I know that this is absolutely the best intention in you, and that is how every man would react. We have brought precise elements as to how and how we will behave and compensate for the damage to people, what harm, how much and what it is that Serbia can endure. Of course, we're gonna keep an eye on him and he sure as hell won't pay taxes during the time they haven't spent in their homes. Of course we'll try to get countless reliefs. But every house that's been torn down, we'll make it. Every house that has suffered significant damage, we will find ways to compensate for at least one part of that damage. We'll help people and restore businesses in different ways. We'll help those who lost cattle, at least in one part, and those who had wartime, vegetable and fruit products, we'll help them through fuel, artificial fertilizer, seeds. Of course, we'll find all the other ways. We'll rebuild all roads and all public facilities. Last night I watched, in fact, this morning very early, I watched a video of whether a diary or not, and there was an interesting story about a village in southern Serbia where a man was 60 years ago, I guess he let a trapo station be made in his backyard and never paid for electricity, now they came to collect. He says he never got a dime for that trafo station. You haven't paid for electricity in 60 years. Now we all felt guilty that this good host and honest man suddenly had to pay for electricity, but I'm sorry, the electricity has to be paid. If we introduce the principle that electricity doesn't pay, we'll find ways to secure discounts, ensure big discounts that people can survive it, that people can handle it. But if we once made such a decision somewhere that no electricity was to be paid, that no water was to be paid, that nothing had to be paid, we could never make anyone else pay anything in Serbia. Because someone would tell us after the fire, and now we're not paying. Someone would tell us the same thing after some next situation. So, I'm just saying that it's, we're gonna make it easier for people, we're gonna help people, and how do I tell you, it's not realistic for the state to give up everything that's usually being collected. As a god, please, just keep in mind one thing, the state of Serbia will most of all, 80% of the money for rebuilding the country, 75% to 80%, have to find the state of Serbia. Thank you to all who have helped us and who will help us with these 20% to 25%, but everything else we have to find, and that is not a bottomless cup, as unfortunately many presidents of the municipalities imagine, so they send us that 10 or 15m euros is a damage to agriculture. To buy all the cattle from the territory of that municipality and buy all the fields around the city, absolutely all the agricultural land, they're not worth that much. I guess that's what he's saying about our relationship, and that's especially the case with those who feel more responsible for the situation in their local self-government, so let's just settle down and charge everybody back, so let's kind of return the people's love to us. Of course this has nothing to do with you, but I just said because the answer is unpleasant or insufficiently satisfying for most of the nation, and someone has to say it. The state has to charge what's hers for the state to exist. So I ask all people, although I have avoided it once, to ask for an account both at a restaurant and at a gas station and elsewhere, because when you don't get an account, you're left without your trip, without your school as well as us without our incomes. That's why fighting the gray economy is the most important thing for us. If we introduce this kind of indiscipline that it's possible that everything isn't paid, we can immediately shut down the boutique, as they would say, and then you can bring whoever you want to power, that it's the most capable in the world, and that it has the support that I don't know at the monthly level, that they bring it 50 million euros each month, it can't do anything. For us discipline, accountability is most important, and for the Obrenovčana, all people from the flooded areas from Svilinc to Krupanj, to every other place, we will help them in every way possible. When I told those whose entire house was flooded that they would have the help and support of the state, they would have the help and support of the state. Don't expect the state to be able to help without an estimate to bring in a day or two, but the fastest possible state will react. Today's office, office chief elected, damage assessment committee already works in the field, collects everything. In the days to come, for months ahead, we will, if I am not mistaken, complete the restoration of all roads categorized and untegorized, which have been damaged and destroyed in this disaster. So, we'll do it in five months, with all the necessary procedures, with estimates of damage, with everything we send the EU, for the IPA funds, for the Solidarity Fund, for everything else, we'll end up, physically on the ground, rebuilding into complete travel infrastructure in just five months. In doing so, I think we will step up the work on road infrastructure, and that, as I said, we will have at least this 105 kilometers finished, certainly before 2016, and a good part already in 2015. I'm talking about E-763, or Corridor 11, as we call it. So all the ideas we have are welcome. It's easier for us to set aside the money to pay, I don't know if you understand me. We better get our money out, give it to them, and say, "Please, pay the bill, rather than say, "Don't pay the bill." Because when we introduce an account default system, we're done years ahead of us, and thank you for every idea, just please, I know how responsible you are, just asking you to understand the position of the state. The state must strengthen in terms of strengthening its finances, in terms of the economic reforms ahead of us, in terms of system laws to repair the business environment. That's our job. Whatever happened to us, we must not give up what is business for all of Serbia, and that is economic progress. To attract all foreign investors, to get help, today I hear, and for the first time I can tell you, there's a possibility that a major donor conference is being held for the whole region. President Nikolic spoke to President Holland, as I hear in one meeting and Mrs Merkel had some ideas, I will know 11 or 12 to tell you exactly where we could bilaterally, and in all other ways that we expect some more help and support from the world. It would also improve our chances that we could do more and more to help the endangered population. Now, I'm most concerned about the electricity sector and agriculture, but above all, the electricity sector, where our damage is absolutely the biggest and where we don't know how and how many months it's going to take to get coal to Tent and to produce our electricity, not to spend 500 thousand to a million euros on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2429	Mr. Markicevic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2430	I have to say that I understand the Prime Minister perfectly, but listed so to say, by his answers to the previous questions of colleagues, we make suggestions. I think at this point it's much more important to make a proposal and help as much as anyone can, and for a criticism that is inevitable, if there are those responsible for this situation, it's never too late. One proposal I will give you, Mr. Prime Minister, I must tell you that I was the author of a legal project seven, eight years ago, which, unfortunately, as most of those who submit MPs never came to the Parliament's agenda, and it was about helping our people in Kosovo. I've known your wishes and ambitions, and it seems to me like no Prime Minister since we've been, a multiparty system exists like you and energy. I have experience of what is written on paper and what is legally promised to citizens or some social measure, that it is for a long period of time. In particular, what's this about? There are fellow MPs here, among other things, my smallness, who were lucky or unfortunate to have had a heart attack and a few stents in their chests, and still want to smoke. The free country, democracy in certain places should smoke, but it is not a problem for the regulation to be collected by that pack of cigarettes five, six or 10 dinars, depending on the price and that it lasts for three years and is called – Serbia-Pulple 2014, for this we give. Do you know what that is in three years? You won't believe it, it's 250 million euros. You said about, like, a billion euros to cost all of this and that we're going to get around 20% or 25% help from abroad, and for the rest, we have to figure it out. Here's a proposal, sir, so Mr Markevic and all the other citizens of Serbia, who want to continue smoking, fellow Members of our parliaments, doctors, and science says it shouldn't, and you want it, then it's not a problem to give those five or six dinars and it takes three years and then the government, whatever it is, has already been in the budget. That's my suggestion. I don't think there's anything you wouldn't accept. If you have a friend to give 250 dinars for a pack of cigarettes, you've got five more dinars. Every day, it drips, and there could be some resources that you could afford. I have another question for Minister Ilic, an honor to all of us, but I think as far as the rink is concerned, he's the one who's worked the most on the rinks, and he's seen the most, and he might briefly answer us where the hardest skating situation is and what's going on, because the rinks are an accident that lasts for days, months, all year, and with a little rain, these skates work. Doesn't mean that if some of the settlements weren't in the media, that's where I don't know what the situation is, because there's plenty of room.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2431	Thanks, time. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2432	For years, we have been doing research on individual rinks and some idea projects have been done and a review of these projects has been carried out by the largest rinks in Serbia. We have the largest slide, one of the largest in Europe, and this is the Duboka ice rink and in 2007 a project documentation was completed that this rink is being resolved and you know well that Sava has a width of 400 meters, before the rink, 400 meters behind the rink, and that it is narrowed in the area of the glider at 180 meters. Every year he skates Umka next to Sava. So 500 houses are compromised and Sava is so slippery that now the thickness of asphalt on the way to the rink is eight meters. I gave the project and then there was a change of government, she avoided building a highway off that right bank to resuscitate the rinks and went to the left bank to avoid the glider. However, the problem remained. I find it very ugly to hear the various comments of some people in politics or in office these days, when we find that Belgrade has active rinks, only the territory of the city of Belgrade 2350, when no one is doing anything and when this problem has to be approached very seriously. The TE Kopova area is subject to slides, and this is the area of the largest slides currently in the Belgrade area. So, if I'm not talking about the Baja Garden ice rinks, the Koserić rinks, the rinks that we once had, and now when we went to the rinks, it turns out that after the rehabilitation that was done professionally, there was no movement. Hence, we need to work seriously on the rinks. We know a nice bathing area. We've partially rescheduled Valeva. It should continue. That's a lot of spending, but a little bit, a little bit of work to do. For the last five, six years, nothing's been done in the rinks. No rescue project of these major rinks that have been registered officially has been done, we have major rinks at Grocka's where no one pays attention. They're right on the Danube coast and they're very risky, so I'd like to ask the competent professional teams in Serbia to work on it, to continue the projects that have started and to get very seriously into it. It's also on the Starboard. There's a big slide in Karaburma. Tons of objects. We're present there. I'd like to ask local authorities not to allow construction in the rink area. In the area of the rink for the last four, five years more than 2,000 buildings have been built there, the country is extremely cheap because the rinks are active. Therefore, local authorities are those who cannot allow construction in the blue area, in the defenceless area of construction. Also, on the slides not to allow construction. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to help us finally start the Umka recovery. That's a big problem. Sava's flow is down. We have to get into that sometime. Authorities in Belgrade understand this rink and accept that this is what is being done together. He's got a project, he's got an audit, it's all over.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2433	The word has Prime Minister Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2434	I'd just like to say two words to Mr Markicevic. That increase in the price of cigarettes isn't easy. There are two reasons. First, they would not agree, and they are against such measures and decisions and the increase of excise duties by our largest producers, the second and fifth chargers of the Republic of Serbia's budget -- "PHILIP Morris", "BAT" and then "Japan Tabacco" in the first 10. On the other hand, we would have had an additional problem of smuggling cigarettes from neighbouring countries that we are already facing in a serious way and that we have failed to resolve to the end, as we have failed to resolve for years the smuggling of spare tobacco. To those who do this work, I promise that we will deal with it and that we will deal with this problem in the period ahead of us to solve it. Thank you, indeed, for your good intentions and for your good idea. If it were feasible, it would be, you were right, one of the easiest incomes in years ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2435	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2436	Mr. President, I still have a series of suggestions to make in the time ahead. I will not be discouraged, although I understand that you from your position must answer as you answer. Since there are colleagues who used all these eight minutes before me, three, plus three, plus two, I'm going to use them to try to give a few reviews as citizens' votes. I think it is the work of the MPs. It seems to me that most citizens think that this state, this government and those who are doing it at this point were doing what was best they could. It's fair to say that we were lucky. It's human and it's responsible. Understand what I'm about to say is that it's neither my party's position nor the MP's club. I'm using my years of experience here and some authority. It seems to me the inevitable formation of civil protection. We gave up a lot of things from a time when some of us didn't fit ideologically. There's no reason not to say it honestly and to do it in the formation of civil protection. It seems to me that Minister Gasic said, the chief avoided it, and Minister Gasic said the number of armies, or soldiers participated in the rescue of citizens. I think it's inevitable to increase the number of soldiers. Since it expires quickly, of course you will say - and the money for it? The last prime minister, Mr. President, didn't even know how many agencies we had. I've come up with some information from 152 agencies, with the great Germany being 53, as far as I'm concerned. Here, let's shut down 100 agencies and see how many soldiers it is. So, it's a great honor to all those who have helped the people in these difficult moments, but whose citizens the army has always been an army.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2437	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2438	Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the Prime Minister for everything he did during the flood and after, when the floods went past, when the water returned to the riverbed. I can tell you with the right that maybe I'm the only one who can understand you from all the MPs in the O.R. right now, because Jagodina had a flood and I know what it means when 2,000 families ask you to be in their backyards at the same time and to talk to everyone at the same time. That's very difficult. I would congratulate the ministers who showed the organizational capacity, especially the minister of the military, he came out, his experience, and as a businessman and as mayor of the town of Kruševec, he transferred it to the organization when they were saving cities, the police minister, who had no experience of this nature, Minister Vulino. We also have three ladies, three ministers in particular. And I would thank them and congratulate them for watching events in other cities all the time. You were in the field helping the citizens. Mr. Dacic, who took 80 ambassadors to Obrenovac, Mr. Alexander Antic, and especially Mr. Vukic, who chose such a good team. They've shown what they know about this trouble and this elemental accident. Mr. Wolf, you don't have to pay attention to what it says on social networks, because it's such a minority that no one takes it seriously and you waste time and you answer. Last night, I saw a show on RTS. You have responded for 15-20 minutes to something that no one in Serbia can understand that it is true that such information has been placed. A lot of panic was being lifted by some observers who sat around all their lives doing nothing and wanting to take advantage of this trouble and get publicity. I'm calling on all those observers who were critical of taking part, so let's see if they had any friends from abroad, if those friendships were made during their duties... (President: People's Parliament, time.) Finish your sentence. Thank you. I have a question for the prime minister - how much will the subsidy be for investors, since we have to answer them?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2439	The word has Prime Minister Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2440	I will ask Lazar Krstic, although I could talk about it, but that other people get involved. Mr. Markovic, I want to thank you first for acting responsibly in the moments when the flood attacked the city from which you came and the entire Pomoravna district, although I am not sure that in all places there was such a correct reaction as in Jagodina. I want to tell you why in such a situation, since some have rebelled, not on social networks, but also in the political public, I have raised my tone, why I was with someone on "per here", why I am this, why I am that. Because I thought the most important thing was that at the moment of such a disaster that hit us, firstly, we should show discipline, responsibility, commitment, and that was the reason. I wasn't paying attention to social networks last night, but I was paying attention to the OSCE reaction, which scared me. Of course, I don't want to make fun of anyone. I want to repeat to the citizens of Serbia what the OSCE has officially announced. The OSCE has officially announced that it is begging and asking the authorities in Serbia to prevent further suspension of formations or the abolition of certain sites, such as, and examples were the removal of text from the website "Blic" and, for a time, the exclusion of some of me completely unknown sites, because it is a very dangerous thing for our country, because someone would want in a very dangerous way to endanger the democratic credibility of this country and because I think it was important to tell everyone that it was a non-ordinary lie. I sent that letter to our friends from the OSCE last night. Serbia, as of next year, together with Switzerland should become the co-chair of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation and seek only one piece of evidence, a little proof of the pointless claims they have made. I've been waiting all day, and I didn't get it. Let him tell me "Blic" if we downloaded their text, which by the way is totally idiotic. It's about a letter to me or me, I don't know. If I may give a political qualification, much worse texts come out every day. I don't see that there's any problem. I've never heard of these other things. Why did that happen? This is because it is necessary to attack Serbia's positions from different angles. Serbia in its crisis, in all its problems, after many years, I don't know if you noticed that information, has become the largest economy in the Western Balkans. It's bigger than even Croatia, with all our problems. Serbia, despite not talking for a second about any regional leadership, is starting to bother many in different ways, especially in our country. What hurt me was that these reports, those denunciations, came from our country, Mr. Markovic, which I know hurt you, too. I don't want to keep these things quiet because someone's going to say, so there was some truth. As you can see, I repeat it the fifth time. Give me the slightest piece of evidence for any of these claims from the OSCE gentlemen. Give me the slightest proof. I haven't got one yet, and I'm not going to go through any lies, no matter who says them, no matter what organization they belong to. I will not allow, with your support, Mr Markovic, and with the support of not only the SNS but also the support of the SPS and the PUPS and the JS and the whole of Serbia, that Serbia be attacked for what it is not guilty of. If there's any other reason, hidden or hidden, tell me what the reason is. To be the head of a government that will bring Serbia into any difficult position, in the foreign policy plan, I don't want to. No problem, we'll pick someone else, but don't wrap something up for us, and you didn't really want to tell us. That's why I looked back on it. I looked back today on those who claim it for days. Those are conspiracy theories. Now I ask the question - where is, wait, let's be honest and analyze. A month ago, this state, by order of the prosecutor, arrested Mr. Pocucci, has arrested Mr. Ivanovic. One of them, don't hold me to the word that one of them is responsible for making anti-Serb lists, is that if I'm not mistaken, or is a carrier of anti-Serb activity, as it was already called. (National MP Borislav Stefanovic throws out of place. No, that's the other one. The D.A. reacted. Everyone asked for the state to react. The DA reacted, none of us did. These men have been detained, detained. In no way have any of us interfered with the state's reaction to the emergency situation. I'm sorry, some people have given themselves the right to talk about the state putting people in freezers. No one was invited to an informative conversation because he said something about Vukic, Markovic, Dacic, Gilas, anyone else. He's been invited to tell you where those freezers are and where they're dead. He's been invited to say where those high furnaces are and where they're dead and who these people are. That's what the political campaign came up with. Someone doesn't give us the right to talk, everyone who thinks differently is persecuted. The refrigerators are no different. High furnaces are no different opinion. Of course, no one's in custody. Now I ask you - where is it that you do not allow freedom of opinion? I will never agree that the irresponsible chatter and fiction that they do to Serbia so much harm, where they represent these people here, ministers, you in parliament, murderers, psychopaths and lunatics who put themselves in the freezers of corpses, who put themselves in a high furnace of corpses and tell me that it's freedom of speech. I won't agree to that. Let it be freedom of speech and that I wanted to kill my child, that I am like this and like that, but that all in Serbia are murderers and psychopaths and that they put corpses in coolers and high furnaces, sorry, that's not freedom of speech and it's not Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2441	Mr. Markovic, do you want three minutes? (Dragan Markovic, from the post: Only the finance minister can answer. ) The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2442	As you know, the SIEPA regulation has passed. I said that the financial framework for this, therefore, is about 130m euros for the subsidy in the economy from 2014 to the end of 2016, i.e. 15 billion dinars. Part of that goes to subsidized loans, about 60m euros that we started this week. This remaining, about 70m euros, over the next two years, is excluding any extraordinary revenue we could have and will be able to schedule in accordance with the SIEPA regulation. There's a different commission there now than before. It is the Ministerial Commission and in the next week, two days together with the Minister of Business, we will define the conditions of precise subsidies per post. This will depend on the development of the region in principle. We'll see if we can find a way to match it with the dynamics of restructured companies. It's kind of a relief. Another type of relief is what we discussed and what we discuss at this regular session, if I'm not mistaken. These are tax breaks for which investors also create new jobs, employ the unemployed. It's a relief between 65 and 75% of the level of contributions they pay. They go and depend on the number of workers and the amount of wages they pay, if adopted, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2443	The word has Prime Minister Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2444	What Mr. Krstic said, it is without extraordinary income. As I said about some recovery revenues, there will be more extraordinary revenues and we will have more money to offer investors in this year, and I hope even more for 2015/16. I hope you can use it the best way you can and hire as many people as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2445	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2446	I have two more questions. One question for Minister Gasic - where are our boats in the military? I even remember those five, six boats, I can identify them in a thousand military boats. What's the reason the Army doesn't have a boat? A proposal by the local self-government minister to issue a statement to towns and municipalities that are flooded not to wait for Vukic to provide blankets, mattresses and beds, as all of them think it will arrive from Belgrade in flooded areas. You know what the state can do to help. That all local self-governments, Mr. Prime Minister, who had the need to give an order to rebalance the budget and that what is not priorities, which is foreseen in the budget, that the figure goes to assist the flooded in municipalities and cities where the elemental disaster hit these cities. I would also ask you, if we can do it as soon as possible, or not me, but those farmers whose fields are flooded, to know by which criteria compensation will be determined. Why is that? Because now it's high time to move certain agricultural cultures that are underwater and there are several kinds of damages. There's a field of damage where the water came through, there's less damage, and there's less water left. It is also an important item in the next three or five days to buy the seeds themselves if they can move, and later when the government determines how much it is per hectare to get compensation or I don't know what you're planning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2447	Thank you. Does anyone want to answer? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2448	I must first point out one great professionalism and a dedicated member of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army in the course of helping our citizens, and at the beginning of my address, I would say that in all these days of severe emergency conditions, we had enough equipment at our disposal, even one piece of equipment and the Emergency Sector were giving help, because simply, we had problems with small boats and large streams where the engines of small forces couldn't go. As far as boats are concerned, we have had enough in this situation, and it is true to Mr Markovic, 874 pieces of boats were sold from 10 to 14,000 dinars in the previous period from 2005 to 2012. It's been sold off-board to 111 pieces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2449	The word is from the Minister of Agriculture Bogosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2450	On the issue of Mr Markovic, which concerns aid to agricultural producers at this point, I would like to say that at the level of our ministry a working group is formed and it is working intensively to set priorities in this regard to assessing areas in flooded areas that can be re-sowed at this moment. With that information, we'll be in front of the citizens very soon. We also determine the amount of seed, fertilizer, oil needed, so that all areas that can be re-sowed will be sown and sown. In parallel with this assessment of our professional services, soil sampling is done, land analysis is established, nutrient content is determined, chemical and microbiological pollution is determined, and yet parallel to all of these are our agricultural experts from all areas, who meet and make a plan, i.e. a recommendation to our manufacturers what to sow, which species, which are at this point most appropriate. I mean, we work very intensively to ensure that the fields that can now be replanted are sown and sown. In doing so, we are working to secure most of the necessary funds in terms of repro material from donations. We have a very large number of those who offer us help. There are also our agricultural institutes, or scientific research institutes in the fields of warfare, vegetables, but also foreign companies that are working to help us. Very soon we will help this first measure which is an emergency measure to help and implement. I hope for the next seven or ten days at the latest. After that, further assessment of the damage continues to look at the possibilities to help our agricultural producers, those who have suffered the greatest damage in these floods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2451	The word is Dragan Markovic. You have two minutes of comment and we're giving Vladimir Marinkovic our word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2452	I would suggest that we still get to the Prime Minister's money, and that those who are burdened with the higher price of this service don't get angry. The best way to get over the toll. We wouldn't mind those who are in transit either, because I'm pounding now, 10 or 20 dinars, from Jagodina to Belgrade is 450 dinars, whether to pay 470, I took that location as an example because I usually travel, and we could get a lot of money considering that the traffic frequency in the coming months is going to be much bigger. Also, Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to suggest that you send a message to Europe that Serbia is not in a catastrophic situation. The flood was a natural disaster that lasted several days. To take advantage of the international popularity enjoyed by Serbia and you personally. I experienced that several foreigners from Austria, France, Germany, Macedonia and Bulgaria, from whom we were being helped, and we could invite them to invite those who want to make their factories in a country to be Serbia. The largest move of factories is from Italy at the moment, and this is my proposal to invite these investors who are interested and that there is now stronger political stability here than it was before the elemental disaster hit Serbia. Finally, let me thank you again for calling me several times, whether I need some help day and night, to congratulate the ministers, and I'm sure the evaluation during the state of emergency for the government and the minister is 10.00.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2453	Question. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2454	I thank the Honorable President of the Assembly. Dear Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard from the prime minister a comprehensive report on the direct consequences that the elemental disasters have caused our country. We are left with, as he said, to look at and to identify, as quickly as possible, indirect damages to the economy, businesses, jobs that are lagging behind and to encourage the view that this job will be done within the next five months. This is a new approach to solving problems, setting clear deadlines, and I hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, along with all institutions and all partners and social actors, will do the job as best and more effectively as possible. My question was addressed to the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mrs. Kori Udovici, indirect prime minister, and we have a proposal for the Minister of Construction, Professor. Zorana Mihajlović. The question concerns what will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and specifically the Ministry, which methodology will be applied under the assessment of these damages? We've heard about local self-government coming across information, various estimates, sometimes real, in most cases unrealistic, and we know how important it is for this level of damage and a clear and precise figure to be determined so that we can plan state costs and that we can plan what will come from foreign aid. In this sense, I am interested, since more methodologies exist, what methodology will the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia apply? What is mentioned is very important, and this is a donor conference that has been announced. That would be very important for our country, and especially for the next period of several aspects, which is that we have to do in one of the most good ways, I have to mention, we're valorizing our unique international position. This position, wherever you go, to the United States, to the Russian Federation, China, we haven't had the last 24 years. We're getting help from UAE, Algeria, Azerbaijan and this solidarity and this kind of energy that people have shown all layers and workers and managers and business owners... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2455	Time, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2456	... And representatives of the government, we must use, and I beg you to answer this question as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2457	The word is Kori Udovicki. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2458	Thanks for asking. The Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government has been tasked by the Commission's party to assess damages from natural disasters to work on this damage assessment methodology, because, as we have been doing for more than 20 years, we have realized that for the damage of such dimensions that really exceeds anything other than 1999, which we had in that period, and on the other hand, the international community is very involved. We have some things to modernize here and make sure that we and they make sure that the evaluations we make are valid. One of the problems with this old existing methodology is that it's too detailed and too focused on counting something, to inventory something, and not enough to get away with, so to speak, and the development effect, what this disaster does to our buildings, not just our roads, our houses, our agriculture, but our future income, what we're going to live from in the future. The international community, their representatives, is preparing a donor conference in a decade and until then they expect us not only to assess it, but to develop these programmes. At this point, this ministry is just dealing with this methodology and we're working on simplifying what we're recording, that these preliminary evaluations that the municipalities have been assigned to do by 30 May can be revised again, to look at what might be there, and we know that now, to a large extent, it's still very obviously done, and sometimes these figures are overrated. Instead, we will highlight simpler information, but to make it clear what is the amount, and what is the value, and to enable in collaboration with the international community after and again control, when there is definitive data, and then to control how the funds are used, that what is already being shared as aid, and that will be shared in this period until there is a final assessment of the damage and in the future, goes where we have all worked together and where it was most needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2459	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2460	I'd like to add just a few information. It's not just a problem to get attached to the first part, I'm going to wait for your proposal, but about the damage assessment committee and all these preliminary first estimates coming from local self-government. Local self-government was tasked with delivering the first preliminary damage assessment by tomorrow, practically until May 30th. Of course these are really the first preliminary estimates, probably in many local self-governments in different ways and made, but what the Commission is currently working on is to form teams for the locals. So, the local teams will be engineers of the Serbia Building Directorate, will be surveyors of the Statistical Institute, will be foreign experts, so they will all be distributed by local self-government to look at all the first preliminary damage assessments. In addition to the photos, evidence of certain damages, they must be made in the second order and more realistic estimates. The office that is actually formed is an operational body in some way the government will find virtually all centralised damage assessments and then control and how money is spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2461	The word has been made by the Prime Minister, Alexander Vucic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2462	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I'm going to try to answer that, because now I didn't understand the systems and the Rules of Procedure as it goes, so I couldn't answer Mr. Markovic before, and then I'm going to talk to Mr. Marinkovic. This toll thing, we have some things to solve here, because it's not going directly into our budget, it's going into the roads, and then it's paying for maintenance and everything, but that's where we're going to put some changes, more control of the money flows, and especially in the projections, and the projections are that we're going to have hundreds of thousands of cars more than last year, when we had the most. It's possible, but we can't know that, that we can't make a difference in the price between domestic vehicles and foreign vehicles, so we won't be able to do as much as we'd like to raise that price and make a profit. As for your other things about the message to investors, we, as you know, will be invited to the government of the Republic of Serbia for the next days to discuss it further, we have already passed the regulation, but we need a few more important laws to pass here in the National Assembly so that we can go to a European and world-wide road show, to show that Serbia is the best place to invest, when we change the Labour Act, the Law on privatisation and bankruptcy, a few of these structural legislative reforms go into implementation, then it is very important for us to show everywhere in the world why Serbia is a more favourable destination than countries in the region, our friendly countries, but we are fighting for our piece of cookies. We fight to hire the largest number of people in our country and then we'll do it anyway. All our people who can do this will be staying in European and world metropolises, we will have a big promotion of the Serbian economy and the possibility of being wrong for 30 June, if I am not, in Germany and under the auspices of a special gathering of Frank-Walter Steinmeier, German Foreign Minister, and a significant number of German businessmen. I expect great success. Of course, nothing will be enough, but when we do all these things, it'll be something more favourable. Not only from Italy, but also from some other countries, capital is being moved. We are pleased that from Serbia above all, this foreign capital that is the most stable and which brings us the most in taxes and in all other fiscal taxes that Serbia is charging is not moving from Serbia. On the contrary, they are coming. What is important to us is that we further encourage the Serbian private sector, the Serbian entrepreneurial spirit, that our people start working together, try to fight together, and that's where we look for support and opposition parties to help us make that mentality -- I've been waiting for a job for 12 years, or -- I've been waiting for a job for 20 years to change. Don't wait for work, they won't come for you. You grab him, take him, do the job, make the money. It will help the state if necessary through self-employment measures and through favourable loans and in all possible ways. We ourselves need to have an idea and we need to understand that the best way to make money is the most honest way, and I'm not saying that anyone who works in the public sector isn't fair, but that you can make a lot of money, and to be fair, it's always in the private sector. In the public sector, you can't make much money without it being fair. Unfortunately, today is the main thing for us to do in the public sector. If we can change that, we'll do it. One more thing. So, when all these measures are over, we will go to the world's promotion and these measures and then you will be able to go on the world's largest television networks to see Serbia's offer. We think our orientation is something different. For our country, we think it is the most beautiful, but we will not go with ads – beautiful, wondferous serbia or something, but we will go with a direct business offer and with what we offer investors, those who want to invest their money in Serbia and thus we will advertise our country. They're all with their ideas and how welcome they are. Mr. Marinkovic, one more word. So you're right, we're having a big problem, and we're in a lot of damage to that indirect damage. That's why I told you about the power sector. A moment ago, Minister Antic informed me that the Germans had offered us, the Germans, the fastest, most capable, to equip us with the Tamnavian Field by October 31st. Look at what a disaster it is for us and what a disaster is, and then it's all clear to you. There's also what hasn't been directly damaged by us, baggers where our mechanism hasn't been directly damaged, but we're damaged on a daily basis for huge sums of money. Not to mention what you're right about how small entrepreneurs from Obrenovac, small entrepreneurs from Krupanj, small entrepreneurs from some other cities and municipalities will suffer and how many losses they will have and how many problems to face. That's where we're gonna have to find some kind of moduso, some way to at least make up for some of what they lost. It's hard to calculate that indirect damage, and it's, anyway, if you want and if I may say so, bigger than the one directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2463	The word has Vladimir Marinkovic, three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2464	I am pleased with the answers of Minister Udovici and Prime Minister, and Professor Mihajlovic gave me the cream to make the proposal. You said by May 30, you'd be forming special teams that, as we say, will have some aspect of post-crisis management to react and assess in one quality way the damage. My proposal in consultation with counterpart Branko Bosnjak, who is one of the most important experts in our country, is that within these teams, Serbian Engineering Chamber members are also involved. As you know, Serbia's Engineering Chamber has 26,000 members and has great capacities and when human resources are at stake, ideas and knowledge that it can and how to serve us, what is most important to us, to find and find as many of our own resources as we can in the best way to overcome this situation. Our proposal, since we need it today, and tomorrow it will be, social responsibility, many companies and private and state-owned, I hope it will do so in the future, to say the Engineering Chamber part or full membership of some 265 million dinars, as one socially responsible institution, focussing on people from the region, engineers in those areas affected by elemental disasters. It's not just about the assessment of the damage, it's about the recovery projects. In this way we could also work and give jobs to our engineers, as we hope to employ construction operations and as this situation, which unfortunately happened to us, as the prime minister said, will be used to get the best we can and the stronger the momentum for the development of our complete economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2465	The word is Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2466	That's what it's all about. We are already in contact with the Engineering Chamber in every sense of that word, both from membership fees and from help and ways to make the most of the engineering chamber itself and the members of the Engineering Chamber to be involved and helped in this situation, but in all things, at every stage that awaits us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2467	Thank you. The word has Milan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2468	Mrs Gojkovic, Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable ministers, the honourable MPs, the form of parliamentary issues, at least in today's session, I think there is one constructive side that might also become a practice. But we have to be realistic and in this form we have to allow and we need to allow different opinions and opinions that, I'm convinced, at least in this room, and in this country they're not malicious. I want to believe they're not malicious. Of course, I'll try to be specific. My question will also be explained by a certain type of proposal. Public enterprises in Serbia, I will only take three large, "The Railway", EPS and "Post", numbers, you will not believe, 70,000 employees. Only in the Post Office, according to the record I have, 300 people have reported themselves to have suffered minor or major damages. I assume that the number in the EPS is higher, as well as in the Railways as well. Why am I saying this? We followed everything that was going on and took as much participation as we could. We heard that one, two, three or four public enterprises donated certain funds, but what is important for this presentation, or for the proposal, is that at the position of sponsorships and donations of public enterprises in Serbia they have, gentlemen respected friends, big money. I'd also like to hear from the Minister of Economy or the Minister of Finance how much funds it is. I assume by free assessment that Mr. Stefanovic would be pleased if we could buy a 10m-euro helicopter right now. Therefore, my proposal is heading towards the President of the Government to launch the initiative, to define with its team the possibility, but I would say more to the obligation regulated by certain regulations, that these funds currently standing in the programme of operations at sponsorships and donations are being directed to address the burning needs of employees in these companies, and the rest of the funds to be used so that the state can respond to its obligations. This is something that represents tangible money...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2469	Time, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2470	I end with a question and a suggestion and I expect Mr. Prime Minister to launch an initiative on these matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2471	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2472	I thank Mr. Krkobic. Certainly to spend that amount of money on sponsorship, probably even bigger, when we talk about public enterprises, there's no doubt. This is primarily about cultural events, sports events, sports alliances, sports clubs. I don't know, the right to tell you what to say. That's why I was talking, and that's why I think it's important that Minister Udovic prepares himself and finally after that public debate and everything we've had to prepare for the privatisation of sports clubs, so that we don't have to give millions and millions of euros to sports clubs, instead of taking taxes for the state, that we take from them, and not them from us. But it's all upside down with us and, of course, then you're exposed to brutal persecution and attacks, because the question, as with our municipalities, is who will take more, not who will earn more. Unfortunately, there are contracts you can't break up as you know it, but there will not only be recommendations, but I would say strict norms and behaviours in public enterprises that will prohibit such spending of people's money. I would ask that any kind of assistance and support you provide within public enterprises, I would ask that all state authorities be aware that some people would not give two, three or four aids and support. I was in one place, and today I heard a woman say, "What is the help of a pate?" But I walked into a house where I saw at least a hundred pâtés. So let's try to have all 10 pâtés, at least it can last three or four days. So, I ask you in the Post Office, as I ask people in the EPS and the Railways, they will have other much bigger problems with repairing their infrastructure to do so and the cleanest possible way. And for the next year, unequivocally, whether it goes into privatisation or not, Telecom, and the EPS will have to save for it to be able to make all the losses that we have now made, all the problems we face to compensate for and compensate for the EPS itself, but also as far as possible with the wider state support. Anyway, thanks for your proposal, because every proposal where we can save some money and where we can spare more money for the victims is welcome. You are also left with this request just to record the clear assistance and support that public enterprises have provided to all their employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2473	Three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2474	I am grateful for accepting the proposal, and I must point out that I am completely in agreement, that non-payment is harmful, the concept of non-payment is not good. The price hike concept is not good either. Additional loads, same not good. The people are poor and difficult to isolate further. What is important in all this, when we talked about a set of these economic laws earlier, the Prime Minister said, I would suggest that three key laws be taken seriously, the Business Society Act, the Public Business Act and the Public Procurement Act. I think it's been a long time since we've seen the first results, I'd say before certain shortcomings related to these laws. It would be extremely convenient, if we could do it in an accelerated procedure, especially with the Public Procurement Act, to consult people who work in public enterprises, to see directly what stone stumbling is, where are narrow throats, where we don't realize plans, where we can have extra savings. I think that the set of these laws is interlinked and conditioned, and in the next period he would represent, in my opinion, one important contribution to the launch of economic activities in general, and thus the creation of new jobs. In the end, I'd like to welcome the Prime Minister's optimism. He's not a man who's easily optimistic, with no cover. I think he's become an optimist now, where it's absolutely necessary, and that's in the start of economic activity, because there's no entrepreneurial spirit without optimism. Indeed, this accident has produced a certain wave of optimism and faith that we can do something about it. It would be very instructive and useful if we didn't make any gestures, not to cause any doubt at all that would disrupt that initial optimism. I repeat, we channel it in the launch of business activities and the creation of new jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2475	The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2476	President-in-Office, Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, surely what will mark media reports from today's session is finally finding out about the number of victims these catastrophic elemental disasters have suffered in the last days of Serbia's life. I want to be responsible for these victims and discuss them today and at this session, but also in the coming time. This emergency law was passed in 2009, and from Mr. Prime Minister the other day, I heard through the media that we were working under the laws of the '70s. This key law certainly has sublegal and other laws that are not in line and we should talk about it. You said to say at least one part of the law that is not respected and here I will read in Article 10 of point 11 – the government is reporting to the National Assembly about the type and cause and proportions of emergency and emergency situations, the measures taken and the activities of the system of protection and rescue and the evaluations of the further development of the situation. Until today, that's not what happened. You have the initiative to report to the government and discuss it. There are parliamentary questions today. We're talking about this by force today. I expect that we will have a report and that we will have a special session, as our parliamentary group demands, so that we can get concrete answers to many of the questions that we cannot get today because of the little time we have available. Without this topic, we could talk about the state of the media, about small graduations, elections in Kosovo, state of state finance. But at this point, all this is falling into another plan, and we need to talk about everything the government has done. This law speaks in the principle of preventive protection. It is said that the emergency situation is declared immediately after the knowledge of the immediate danger from its appearance. If I remember correctly, and I think the prime minister talked about it, today at the beginning, on May 12th, there was a warning from the Republic Hydrometerological Institute. On the night of the 13th on the 14th of May, 13th, emergency situations have already been declared in some cities, and only 14th in the territory of the entire Republic has declared an emergency. Was that a good time? Could the declaration of an emergency immediately following the warning of the Republic Water Meterological Institute have prevented the negative consequences that occurred on the territory of various municipalities, and of course most seriously in the territory of Obrenovac Municipality?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2477	Who wants to answer? The word is made by the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2478	I didn't just understand what the Serbian government had committed. First, it does not schedule the government session of the Assembly, it may seek, but it does not schedule. On the other hand, yes, the government will report to the National Assembly exactly in line with the member you mentioned. It's not necessary, since I've listened to heroic stories about what someone will do, I don't mean you, Mr. Djurishic, you're a very correct MP, and I don't have a problem with saying it, I've heard heroic stories, heroic acts that anyone will tell us, what anyone will do to us or I don't know what. I have nothing to fear or to be ashamed of. A decision on an emergency situation across the country has been made by the Republic of Serbia. At the only possible moment and at a time when many others in the region did not make that decision. Bosnia and Herzegovina has not made that decision for a moment. Croatia has not made that decision for one second. The leadership of both countries has been criticised for this. Serbia made that decision the second the disaster in Obrenovac started happening. We reacted the best we knew and knew, the best we could. As for reports and information, meeting the National Assembly, you will be fully acquainted. I don't think there's much more information that's needed. People have heard them. It is necessary for the state authorities to do and do their job in accordance with the law. If there was a crime and if there was any criminal responsibility, as you can see, the competent state authorities are very, very thorough and responsible for the work, and that's their job. Let's not tear down or violate anyone's presummation of innocence, so the competent state authorities will do their job. As far as the National Assembly is concerned, we are here today to answer questions, doubts, or anything else, and on the other hand the report of the National Assembly follows. I got all the parts of the system today, if I can call it that, very extensive reports. It takes me a while to read these reports, to bring it all down to one big notebook or book, so that we can deliver it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to the MPs. We have no problem pleading on this, hearing any kind of reasonable criticism. Otherwise, it's not a matter of emergency, it's a matter of treating natural disasters and assessing damages, the 1992 law, and one of them is the 1987 law. So, we have such pointless and stupid problems that we're facing and I didn't say it was your fault, it's as much my fault as you and everyone else in this room, because we've never dealt with in this country by preventing, never, as we're not going to deal with fire prevention tomorrow, and we know that the fire might hit us, because we don't have enough money. We never have enough will to prevent. We always react to a post-festum, it's our nature, and I hope that we can all change it together, and I don't blame you or celebrate us, because I think it's the exact same responsibility for each other. As for the on-going transfer to some other spheres of social life, you know that we are always open to this kind of conversation, especially about the state of public finances, but also all other topics. So as much as we can, as far as we know, and I think we have more professional people than many previous governments have, because we're willing to talk about it. We have some serious reforms ahead of us. If we know what our goal is for 2018 and 2019, then I am fully convinced that we can achieve these goals, but we need both unity and unity and a lot of work and a lot of hard work, a lot of diligence, a lot of commitment, and in all this, I am convinced that you will have a significant role as well as the Serbian Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2479	The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2480	My intervention was in that direction to hear from you a promise to get a report and discuss it here. Of course, I believe there may have been no time until this session, but we have heard various statements that there may be no need to discuss it and that we should do some similar things. I won't, because I don't have enough time to ask now in these three minutes some questions which, I believe, will be found in this report and which, when we talk about it, we will then analyze and present our opinions in detail, whether everything that has been done has been done in the best possible way, or maybe some things that I haven't been able to find in this law, which is how it is possible to disband the crisis headquarters of a city when it's the only local Assembly to choose, the mayor is in office, or the president of the municipality is the head of the crisis staff, and members are elected by the city, or municipal parliament. Also, all these days I couldn't hear what happened to civil protection, which is the main carrier of activities in situations like we had in the previous days, if one of the reasons, is there in the statement from the Chiefs of Emergency Staff that there are only 1500 members of civil protection, not 8,000, because the supply of equipment has been going on for a year and uniforms and various other issues. You said it was never about prevention. The previous few days of the regimeal media, since the public first started to say that this was a reminder for the people, and then that this was all God's fault, and then it went a little bit to look for the culprit on the ground, here among us, and so Mr. Tadic and the government who was at his time, tried to blame themselves, that she had misused the World Bank's loan and had not been done enough to protect us since 2006, 2007, when we received certain funds after the flood. I'm sorry that the Minister of Emergency, as he was nowhere in emergency situations, and now he's not even in the O.R., as a former Minister of Construction, says why there hasn't been an end to the rebuilding of the Joves, and there's about 19 kilometers of embankment there, from the World Bank's loan, it's been done a little more than 17 kilometers, and 1.8 kilometers of it isn't, and that place was the most critical on the right bank of Sava these days, and there's been the biggest battle with water, and in this part that was done in this period preventively, there was no problem, and there was no water at any time came to the sandbags, but we won't be able to hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2481	Time, MP. We still have time to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2482	First of all, I never said and very carefully, and I take care of it, because I'm keeping that kind of assessment that it's Tadic or someone else's fault for that, which he's guilty of, and I'm glad he confessed himself, and that was an increase without any economic reason, not him personally, but that government, the pension, which is why we had to pay the entire seven billion and so much in debt, and I never said this was his fault, because I know what happened. It's not Velimir Ilic's fault either. It's our relationship and our constant budget deficit problem. It wasn't that money that Tadic stole, it wasn't Ilic, nobody stole it, but at that point we thought it was better to spend a few million, patch up some other holes, instead of building a rash that we didn't need. So that, of all the conspiracy issues, we clearly put these things in place and that people in Serbia wouldn't think it was your President or Minister Ilic stealing, taking or not knowing what he was doing. It's not. It's just that we always have problems with the budget deficit, and it's always seen that from one division to another division, how it's going to be covered, how and how to patch up the holes, and it was practice, and I'm not sure, I hope it's slightly smaller, and I'm sure it does. When you face these problems, sometimes people who instead of fires gave money for the floods caught the floods instead of the fires. What to do, so it was like a random waste of funds. You have to act and do better than not. This is about something else, you said, there was someone out there, and there was someone. Not for you, but for the public and the citizens of Serbia, I mean, whatever we did, that wouldn't be good. You see, I have no problem thanking you at all when you do well and when you say good. I didn't have a hard time thanking Mr. Jovanovic, Mr. Tadic when he invited people to help Mr. Gilas when he took help to one of our centers, and that's not hard for me. Whatever we do, whatever we do, you'll always say something wrong, it's no good. Tomislav Nikolic is Serbia's president, performs his duty in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Where were you, Tomo? On that same day, what are you going to do to Wolf all over? Now, agree, should we be anywhere or should we be everywhere or should we speculate that this is not just about power, but about many others, whether we should work or not, or how we should behave in a particular situation? I just think that more respect between us would bring a more normal and rational political scene and more normal relations across Serbia, because tomorrow you will be in power again, the day after tomorrow someone else does not matter. Just think about it and tell me honestly if you really think you'd behave better and act better in these conditions than you do to me. Finally, as far as local headquarters are concerned, the Republic Secretariat of legislation, as you know, at every cabinet session, whenever we have a formal-law issue, they resolve. We'll provide you with every piece of information about it. If we had left behind some local headquarters that were talking about political revenge... Do you know what was in Capco? I didn't want to say it, but I'll tell you now. We've got footage of all the local media. I prevented those loved ones from being prosecuted who explained that the government of the Republic of Serbia was lying about the need to set up sacks, because it was an inflatable situation in Capco, that there was no danger of the Sapac and that the water would not cross. We had water on our bags the whole time. If it wasn't for that kind of action in Capco, the question is, what would be left of the Paws? It has nothing to do with whether this man is yours and it has nothing to do with whether I am angry with my friend, a peaceful, wonderful man from Shid Nikola Vasic. Aman, you listen when they tell you and we say -- listen to "the Duke's Water" even though there's someone else in power. You will listen to “the water of the Duke, ” for they tell you to act like one. Release those five villages, evacuate people from those five villages and do as you're told. Until we asked the man to stay away or until he got away, or we didn't put him away, however you wanted, we couldn't organize the job and we couldn't put the sacks in Capco. It was a simple reason. I'll bring you everything you need. I don't think it's a bad thing, I think it saved the Sabbath. I'm happy and happy about it. I don't care about his vanity, my vanity, yours or anyone's vanity. Who cares about that? He's got all the political games he wants and let him work and let him win, let him lose. I don't care about that at all. Please, I've seen that, that's the second, third question that's been asked for no reason. You couldn't see any party, any party relationship in no second of this whole tragedy. Not in one second, not in one place or in any way. I didn't want to, even though it would be the easiest thing for us to say is that and that, crucify him. That's not what I wanted. I couldn't tell people. Do you want me to say that Cuchkovic is guilty in advance of not knowing who? That's what authorities do. I think that this boy, even though our political opponent is the worst and the hardest, nothing beautiful in that sense meant him, fought. His family stayed there. Did he do something wrong? The authorities will determine that, but he fought there. His family, children and parents went out when others, only the second day, not the first day. Do we need to take his head off, make it easy for someone now, which belongs to Dinkic's party, or do I not know which party? I don't think that's the answer. I think the solution is to be reasonable. Yeah, I don't know if we started looking for the guilty. It's okay always. Don't forget, when someone says it's God's fault, someone didn't really think it was God's fault, he wanted to tell you it was a higher power. This is a higher power. It's an unequivocal higher power. Floods are an elemental disaster that happens in all parts of the world, and that is becoming more and more common. Are we going to say every time that someone is guilty of causing a flood? It is such a combination of incredible circumstances that took place in Obrenovac, which I am sure will never again in Serbia's history be repeated in one place. We had, people, attacked Valjevo, which was almost the best-established city, as you know, and then it happened to rain, that it fell 200 millimeters per square metre in one night, that Tamnava went to our historic maximum, which should be poured out. Veran Matic here to save everything open the way. He's flooded the whole of Kocelev. People swim on Koceljeva. Here's the host here. It's heading for Ubo. People at CTU are barely saving people in Ub, but you're hoping. There's something coming out of Tamnava and it's going to Kolubara now. Part of it's pouring in, part of it's hitting the Colubary, and it's coming back further. You're counting on what went into the Colubary going to Sava, and we're not so high yet. We have a problem in Duboja, what Minister Ilic was talking about. He will come to Sava and pour himself into the Danube. No, Kolubara hits the maximum of Sava, rising back upriver, and then there's a collision of all the waters and a complete disaster in Obrenovac. I know that maybe someone could have imagined it or I don't know how, but to predict that it all happened at some point, it's really amazing. Here, you can tell me it's RHMZ, it's "Serbia", "Belgrade", or I don't know who, because I don't know anything about it, and you don't know anything about it. We're no expert on that. I've told you what I've been told a hundred times. They're people of expertise. Yes, it's true, it's an elemental accident and it's a natural phenomenon. You know you can't always defend yourself against fire, water, earthquakes and everything we face. And if it could be here or there, it could be always. She could've been an organization in Capco to make us feel better. We brought back the people who got wet, worked all night. The buses have returned to Belgrade. Who did you ask to come back to? We didn't ask anyone, but we came back. Will they be responsible? Yes, they will be responsible for this and will be punished. No one's stupid or crazy about seeing things like that or admitting things like that. Mr. Djurishic, I beg you and everyone else to respect your country. Tomorrow you will be in power and I ask you to ask those who remain in politics to respect the state in the same way as we have asked you today. No more than that. I also ask our people not to use every opportunity, and it is true, I deliberately replied to Mr. Zivkovic in a different way regarding some of our people. I've seen, I've tried some to use, so they can get political support, a political point somewhere. Do you think I like that? Do you think I support that? Of course not. Go do your job, help as much as you can, and don't take political power at times like this. No one who thinks they get their hands on political power at such a time in the country will ever get anything good. Once again, to thank all of you, honourable MPs, and also to thank all of Serbia's citizens once again, and to tell them that Serbia can and wants to do a lot of things and that Serbia will have the strength and that people do not care. In line with the opportunities we have, which are not small, Serbia will help all citizens in vulnerable areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-29-0.u2483	Dear MPs, now that it is 19.35 hours, we are finishing work in the session on parliamentary matters. I thank you all for your participation. Tomorrow at 10.00 we continue the debate in the particulars of the law we have begun.
