ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10118	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 106 registered Members of Parliament attends the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 153 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are prevented from attending the sittings: Miroslav Markicevic, Momo Colaković, Miroljub Stankovic, Dubravka Filipovski, Dragan Jovanovic, Djordje Milicevic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović and Branko Ružic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE CRIME LAW. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic, Balša Bozovic, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the amendments I have tabled to this bill, I have fully understood the urgency this time brings, given the developments on the international scene. It is not our fault as a state and as a society that the world's circumstances have been sharpened and that certain volunteers, certain "dogs of war" in certain countries, are committing terrible crimes. Our responsibility towards the work of the international community, which is itself responsible for the new circumstances, I am talking about the work of the international community, a team greater than we are on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, which, while falling apart, was civil, and in a certain way in the religious war and was exposed to similar events, beastic solutions to the lives of former SFRY citizens, and, in this respect, I appreciate the noble intentions of the legislator. I added in the amendment that a Serbian citizen, who added "with his will he participates in war or armed conflict in a foreign country". Since many Serbian citizens are working in risky areas, they can be found as members of military and paramilitary formations, and they do not want to do so with their own will, but can simply choose, if some terrorist or some army in that area wins their construction site or their company at which they work, at that time they can choose either to cut off their heads or access such units. If they approach those units and did not do so by their will, they could be subject to this law and they could be punished without being guilty or responsible for joining the organisation, because it was forced. I also added that members of the UN's military and paramilitary formations in the conflict that have been declared terrorist organisations. So, I think there are paramilitary formations that are official and that in some countries represent auxiliary military forces, that is the case in America and Russia, so accessing such paramilitary formations can, those who approach, come into contact with the violation of this law, which, in my opinion, is not exactly fair. With that in mind, terrorist organisations, terrorist groups don't have to be paramilitary and military formations, so I suggested this kind of amendment. Knowing that we need to pass this law very quickly and that it is not complete, that in the next period we can pass a more complete law, which I will advocate. Since the situation is what it is, I have suggested that we somehow allow people who, out of noble intentions, want to participate in some conflicts, because there may be a massive violation of human rights by military dictatorial units in some countries, in such situations, should not, in my opinion, be punished by those who voluntarily enter into conflict on the territory of another country. I realize that we have little time, that our international obligations also stand. I am also aware that he is part of the international organization and is responsible for what is happening. When it happened to us, there was no law like this on their territory, which doesn't mean we shouldn't learn from their mistakes and pass this law. I would like this amendment to be adopted. If not, I'm prepared even in a certain way to take it down in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10120	Mr Meso Omerovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10121	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of counterpart Marijana Risticevic has a double intervention. On behalf of the promoter, 199 MPs, we reject this law for very simple reasons. When it comes to his will, which counterpart Risticevic is trying to intervene on the proposed member of the law, the explanation is very simple, because the fact that he wants his colleague Risticevic to strengthen the law is not necessary because in the general part of the Penal Code is foreseen that if there is no guilt, there is no crime. In addition, in the general section of the Criminal Code, it is also provided that if the crime is due to an irresistible force, it is also not a criminal offence, and if the act is carried out under a fact of force which is not irresistible or as a result of a threat, the perpetrator may be more lightly punished by the court. As for the second act and the proposal by counterpart Risticevic to introduce in the proposed 386 addendum to the Criminal Code provisions declared by UN terrorist organisations, this narrows down the crime to participation only in UN-declared formations. So, counterpart Risticevic, if your amendment were accepted, then the new crime that the Serbian Parliament would adopt would not apply to Ukraine, because in Ukraine, the UN has so far not recognised any terrorist organisation as registered, which it would declare as such. Therefore, by adopting such a proposal for an amendment, we would come to a paradoxical situation in order to propose the law, the interest of the Republic of Serbia completely cancel and bring it down to the level that for those participants or people currently staying in the territory of the state of Ukraine, where they are at war on one side or on the other, this crime would not apply. For this reason, I cannot accept this amendment as a proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10122	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10123	I agree that this amendment should not be accepted. I am pleased that the proponent is also in that position, although I was not clear on the applause that counterpart Risticevic received from most MPs when he explained the amendment. Now I fear that this amendment at the end of those who applauded will not be adopted. If adopted, this law practically loses its meaning. In our Criminal Code, we already have members dealing with terrorism and prescribing criminal acts of association for terrorism, acts of terrorism, intimidation, in order to achieve the intention of terrorism. If this amendment were to be accepted and the law only narrowed down to those involved in terrorist organisations, then it is not necessary. I just want to say that our parliamentary group will vote against this amendment, and I hope that all the legislators who have signed this law, before whom counterpart Omerovic has now rejected this amendment, despite that little-time applause, will refuse this amendment in the day of voting and that it will not become part of the law, because then the law loses its meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10124	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10125	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, I personally submitted an amendment for the simple reason that yesterday we agreed that the purpose or purpose of this amendment or the addition of the law is not disputed and we will support it in the day of the vote, but what is disputed is that the proposal is very vague. In yesterday's debate, we had the opportunity to constructively discuss what is in Article 386, which is a new member here, for the reason that after we said "the paramilitary formations of the parties in conflict", we suggested that the words "of which neither party in conflict is the Republic of Serbia". It can be concluded from vague provisions that in some hypothetical war between Serbia and the country of X every Serb soldier who tramples foreign territory under this Criminal Code will have to answer. From vague provisions, and it seems to me that Mr. Omerovic kindly accepted it yesterday, and even some SNS MPs, I think it is very important to specify this matter, so that in some hypothetical sense they do not come into a certain error. Also, when it comes to 386b, which recruits or encourages another person in Serbia's territory to carry out the work of Article 386 of this Code, organises a group or conducts training of another person or group for the execution of that part, equipment or makes equipment available for the execution of that part, or gives or collects funds for the execution of that act, it will be punished by a prison of two to ten years, as well as for the work of Article 1 of this article, the perpetrator will be punished by the penalty prescribed for that act and when the persons who organise it are not Serbian citizens. We think that this amendment is fundamentally important and that it specifies these additions to the Criminal Code, for the simple reason that whether someone is maligned or not, it can be interpreted in two senses in hypothetical cases, for no reason can the citizens of Serbia be convicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10126	Thank you. The floor has a representative of the proposing National MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10127	Thank you. counterpart Bozovic also proposed the amendment on two levels. On behalf of the promoter, I reject these amendments, with an explanation that is approximately understandable because, my colleague Bozovic, there is no need for precision in the new Article 386, as you suggested that neither party in the conflict was the Republic of Serbia, finished quote, because the perpetrator of the crime, the citizen of Serbia who is participating in the war in a foreign country, so it is unclear that the Republic of Serbia could participate in a war in a foreign country. In addition, Article 112 of the already existing Criminal Code provides that the Republic of Serbia, in the text of the laws, means Serbia's abbreviations. On the other hand, the intention as an important mark of a crime, unlike the solutions you propose in the second part of the amendment, which relate to the new Article 386b, is foreseen in a whole series of other laws and other criminal acts in the Criminal Code. I'll list only some crimes against property, kidnapping, extortion, crimes against computer systems, etc. I'm on behalf of the promoter that there should be an element of the crime itself here. The intention may be hard to prove. That's what I was saying when we talked about it the other day in the principle debate, but there is a number of court practice related to its determination. At the very end, for example, for the crime of recruiting and training for the conduct of terrorist acts, which are in any case similar to a crime, is also an important element of the crime sought. Therefore, I cannot accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10128	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10129	I don't think there's anything vague about this amendment. The intention of the MP who submitted it is to remove the ambiguities, not to deepen. I do not see what is unclear in a provision that precisely determines the condition that it is necessary to meet, which is that it is a person who is not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, but that some other two countries are in conflict or are in conflict within another country. This is how you protect our citizens in some hypothetical, hopefully impossible case, where one of our people would have to participate in certain operations that are now not defined as a peace mission. We don't see what's unclear here, and we don't see why this is too much. Simply, things are further precise and help this law to obtain a form that will be applied in practice and which will manage to remove any ambiguity with its elements. Every law of the Republic of Serbia should be as precise as possible, because unfortunately, life and happening in the world around us often lead to the situation that norms are too wide-ranging and only subject to interpretation, and when in Serbia something is subject to interpretation, then you know how it ends – very unfavorable. I'm not one of those lawyers who likes and wants every provision to write exactly everything that's going on, that's impossible. In this case, Your Honor, you could have respected this suggestion, because it removes one, I hope, impossible situation in the future that could completely unfairly affect citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, for some reason, in this case defence and patriotic, participate in armed conflicts. We don't know what he's bringing tomorrow. When you wrote the law, you thought more about what the present brings, and the present is quite grey because our citizens leave and participate as "dogs of war" in other people's conflicts. What's tomorrow? Most often, Serbian legislators don't think, but think -- let's do something now, to regulate as much as we can. You yourself said, dear fellow, that this legal framework is somewhat regulated and better than nothing. I agree. Let's make it more specific, though. Most of them are having fun talking to each other right now because they don't care. These are your partners, and here's how they respect your bill. However, all that comes from the opposition, unfortunately, in a political sense is most often rejected, not accepted, even when all MPs in the hall are clear, I use the time of the authorised representative, that there are no political differences in this parliament, there is no disagreement. We all support the proposal's goal. We all absolutely support the need to regulate one, almost, completely unregulated area in a legal way so far. If he doesn't fall under the scope of a crime of terrorism, as his colleague used to say, there's nothing you can do about it. They can be under the guise of religious freedoms, most often, or freedom of assembly, or political organisation, or under the company's cloak to refer people to other people's wars, to war for suspicious purposes and with suspicious motives. Our amendment is heading towards protecting the members, i.e. Citizens of our country who could be found, as some people say, do not let God in such a situation, be struck by this law in the event of a conflict in which the Republic of Serbia participates. In order to avoid that, this provision by us should be an integral part of the text of the bill. We don't see, at all, how this provision damages the spirit of the law and the motive of the proposing to regulate this area. You want to regulate the area, and you don't want to add situations that are very possible. Now someone's gonna stand up and say, "That's impossible." I thought a lot of things were impossible in the 1990s, so I saw it possible. I thought they couldn't bomb us, so they bombed us. I thought they wouldn't impose sanctions on us, so they imposed sanctions on us and how terms from the dear 1990s for some cause silence in the O.R. Do you see this? It's a social experiment. It's a personal memory of a good time for them. In order not to be in good time for them again, we propose this amendment and we don't see what's wrong with it. I'd like to ask an esteemed promoter to think about it after all. We don't see any problem in this provision and in other things that we've tried to influence in terms of... (Milovan Drecun, from the place: "Whom were the good times?" There's no need to throw.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10130	Excuse me, MP, the chairman maintains order in the O.R. Don't throw... (Milovan Drecun, from the place: "Whom were the good times?" You can't say it was a good time. I can't hear you, I really can't hear you. I'm not gonna tolerate yelling and throwing. Let the MPs go. Pick up the word and speak after the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10131	I don't know why that anxiety, Madam President. We know very well that for some, I underline for some, it's a term that was often used by the government, it was super-nineties. Why are those guys who were great now yelling at me? He knows that gentleman that he had a great time. I don't want to take it out in the assembly, it's not my turn and I don't want to argue with most of them. Otherwise, that's what I'm gonna say every time. I don't want to argue with most of them. We're talking about an amendment that can improve the text of the law. I'd like you, I repeat, to respect the motives and the desire for further precision. There's no policy behind this. No politics, no parties. Besides, we're all on the same line. I absolutely don't see why anyone would resent the intention to improve a certain text, in our opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10132	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10133	You know how, the chairman, I didn't dream that in 10 years, according to official data, someone was going to deliver 55 billion euros from Serbia, so we have official data. That's worse damage than NATO bombings set us up. So much for the graces of your authority, and that was great for you. I never dreamed such privatisations would be, so the country was completely destroyed. I am an amendment to many things that are illogical and difficult to accept. Why? Because the Republic of Serbia is predicted to be in some conflict. I don't see why someone's defining this way, and maybe something in advance predicts, and pro according to those Ukrainian scenarios, that maybe the Republic of Serbia will be in some conflict. Certainly a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and we incriminate it with these changes and additions, can't fight anywhere unless the Republic of Serbia enters a conflict. It's just that something like this is too high, because you're complicated by a member and you're putting in quite a bit of inaccuracy. Tell us, if you predict in advance that the Republic of Serbia will be in some conflict, that we know that, to prepare ourselves. I hope not. We are exclusively in favour of economic progress. We only care about that, not about the Republic of Serbia going into conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10134	The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10135	The Honored Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment that we have tabled on this bill, aims to remove the ambiguities, inaccuracies and misunderstandings that stand in the proposed Article 386b. We have suggested that the words "who in the intention of execution" be replaced by the words "who shows by his action the intention to execute", because for the application of this law, the key question is who is authorized to assess people's intentions, on the basis of which the parameters will do so. Since such a provision creates a space for the widespread abuse of this law, we believe that the formulation proposed by the amendment prevents abuse in the interpretation and implementation of this law. This law is basically good, but as it is proposed only makes sense in countries where there is a huge trust in the state authorities that are supposed to execute it, in the police, in the judiciary, in the prosecution and others. But we're not among those countries, we're not at that level yet. Our amendment aims to protect this law from possible abuses, because we do not want it to become a mechanism for dealing with political inexperiences. The point is, there is no instrument or man can measure the level and nature of intent. That is why we ask that this ambiguity be removed and a more precise provision be put in place that says - who shows by his actions the intention to execute. If you ask – do we trust the authorities to enforce this law, the answer is no. We have no right to believe after all that the Bosniaks of the Sandzaks have experienced in the 1990s by the regime then, by the military and the police of this state, and not today these crimes are enlightened. That is why we cannot talk about the trust that is necessary for this law to be properly implemented. In our best desire to improve this law, we have proposed this amendment. However, the condition of all the conditions for the adequate application of this law is the harmonisation of the national structure in the bodies to implement this and other laws with the national population structure in Sandzak. We therefore propose to postpone the application of this important but very sensitive law until the national structure of employees in the police, the judiciary and the prosecution and other bodies with public authority agree. This is a way to build conditions and trust necessary for the proper application of this law, as well as other laws in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10136	I thank you, MP. The speaker Meho Omerović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10137	Thank you, Madam President. I understand the wish of the Proposer of this amendment to advance the proposal to supplement this law, as any MP does, with a good desire to improve some text, but we cannot accept this amendment for two reasons. The draft law we have offered is sufficiently precise, and there is a number of Serbian practices for the intention, while the formulation proposed by the amendment does not exist in any part of the existing criminal act in our criminal law. So it's very logical and understandable why we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10138	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and State Self-Government and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10139	Thank you very much. We have supported this bill, we think it is clear enough and can be useful in this situation, and in the future we do not have a dilemma about how Serbia will be set up if a new Spain happens or if something similar happens. We have no concern for the citizens of Serbia who are members of the Foreign Legion and of other similar organisations and troops, and I think it is a completely pointless dilemma of what they are. So, the law is good, of course, like any other law he's going to pass a time check, I hope it'll be just fine. We think that criminal policy in Serbia is otherwise mild and therefore we suggest that the penalties be increased by these three cases where an individual is a member, when he participates in some conflict outside Serbia, when it is a group or when it comes to the organiser, that for a person from six months the minimum penalty is raised to two years, for a group participant that the minimum penalty is not one but three years, and that whoever organises that group is a minimum sentence of five, not two years. I think such a punishment of politics, such a proposed punishment for these crimes, would be effective and that deterrence would be raised to a much higher level. I think it's a very bad practice for a bill promoter to refuse amendments without an explanation. If we're going to hear that argument now, I don't think there was any reason not to write it in this act that was rejected. I'd like to hear what's wrong with these amendments. Regardless of whether or not to accept the amendment, we will vote in favour of this law, but we believe that it would be more effective if our amendments were accepted, or our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10140	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10141	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. We are opposed to accepting this amendment even though there is some logic, but I will explain it, of course, that someone does not get me wrong, first of all, participants, I speak directly to the participants of these wars, we will see now in Syria, and also those who go through Ukraine, etc. They're mostly young people. You have an example from BiH, a girl who is not even 18 years old and went to war on the side of terrorists. A young man should be given a chance to resocialize, that is, by punishing him for, say, ten years, you will actually lose the flow of a man. I fully support this second part, and there's a two to ten-year sentence for the one who's recruiting. These are mostly mature people who organize these groups that most often deal with crime, trafficking in people, etc. They should be given more punishment, but we can't give a young man who went astray, went into this extreme ideology, suddenly punished him for ten years and gave him no chance to get a new chance and find himself in society and find some normal and right way. That's why we can't accept something like this. The only objection to the punishment I have, Mr. Omerovic, is because they are large ranges. It's very difficult to judge how you're going to give someone one, how you're going to give one to a five, and how you're going to give it to an eight-year-old and why, but now it's something that the legislator himself has brought this way. Essentially, something like this is unacceptable, because it might mean that certain young people, we would lose our entire generation because we wanted to punish someone fiercely, and that's not something that's good or desirable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10142	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10143	Comrade Djukanovic, you are absolutely right when you say that this law and what we will bring is in a few minutes, primarily because of the preservation of human lives and that of young people whom you have apostrophe, who are still looking for their own way, which, in conditions of poverty that exist in Serbia, unfortunately still become such a target for every kind of indoctrination. This law is now intended to distract us from such a path. As for the range of penalties and what the amendment promoters, distinguished colleagues Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic have sought with their amendment, these ranges and are according to our criminal legislation, as well as in this proposal that we offer to open the opportunity and provide tomorrow with the possibility of a judiciary, i.e. the one who is measuring the punishment and the appropriate type of individualisation and punishment. What I mean is, tomorrow, the court will be able to assess both extenuating and difficult circumstances for each of the perpetrators individually. There could then be a colleague, Djukanovic, this young woman who is breast-fed or in whatever way and in what way, a vervained man may get some extenuating punishment. With this and this proposal for an amendment proposed by the promoters, Mr Zivkovic and Mr Pavicevic cannot be accepted. I refuse him because the sentences have been measured and harmonised as I have said with other criminal acts in the Criminal Code, and the range of penalties they propose for five to ten years would create problems in court practice. This range is not intended for any crime in our Criminal Code. Therefore, I reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10144	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10145	Thank you. I think the reason for the rejection of our amendment is unusual. Compared to other crimes in Criminal Law, it's completely pointless. Of course, crimes are different and of course that this proposed punishment would be unique and should be unique, because this is a unique crime that causes great harm to those who participate and who should be punished, because its return is a danger to all citizens of Serbia, especially those in its environment, and finally, it is one stain on the face of Serbia that can be created by such behaviour. That's why it takes punishment for this crime to be so great. I've heard on some media that some MPs who have the opportunity to be leaders of some shows have boasted that they personally have proposed even more severe punishments, say something else here, but that's another topic, and that's not about these members of the amendments. Generally, I think it's a completely wrong story and that if someone gets punished when they're 10 years old, it's a young man we're going to lose and who won't be able to get back into normal behavior or be a good part of society. We're not asking for a ten-year sentence, we're asking that only a minimum sentence be raised from six to two, from one to three and from two to five. So, there's enough chance that if someone commits this crime, they'll be convicted and sentenced not to minimum punishment, not to maximum punishment, but to say, closer to the minimum, so to speak, that they have enough time to understand their mistake, to change their attitude and to become a normal member of our society in five or six years. The amendment is being rejected here for one reason only, and that's because it's being proposed by the opposition MPs. Otherwise, there's no other reason. Of course, it's the right of the majority. Of course, any majority in any parliament can use this right, but most are divided into decent and rude, wise and less wise, and those who are decent and wise have a good relationship with the opposition, listen to what is proposed, have a public interest above all and determine whether they accept something or not. Here we have an example of several exceptions to technical amendments where absolutely everything that comes from this side, or from a minority that is an obvious minority, because there are too few of us to be able to initiate some proceedings in this parliament, let alone do something more, but that does not mean that this minority does not have the support of Serbian citizens who are shown in the previous elections. It's smaller than this other side got, but that doesn't mean it won't change. I appeal once again, since I have the impression that a good part of the MPs is thinking in a similar way that Mr Pavicevic and I have thought about when we wrote this amendment, that once again it is thought to accept the amendment precisely for the reason he was rejected, which is that the criminal policy in this criminal act must be dramatically different from any other criminal act. It is not the most difficult crime, but by the specificity and by the damage it causes to the individual and the citizens and the society and the state so that it should be placed in one special position, which can be done precisely by the fact that the threatened penalties will be as Mr Pavicevic and I have suggested in our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10146	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10147	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the President-in-Office, I do not object to my fellow farmer for proposing such an amendment, given his very thin, almost no experience in wars, armies, armed units, because he had no luck or misfortune to participate. So someone who didn't serve the army, someone who didn't participate in the war can give himself the right to propose such an amendment. It's a miracle he didn't propose a life sentence or a shooting. After their rule, the death penalty has been lifted, but the people are on life imprisonment. Given these circumstances, it is a wonder that no even more severe punishment has been offered. Kind or rude to that dilemma of the previous speaker may say that it is also polite to serve the army. It is polite sometimes to participate in a war, it is polite and sometimes desirable to protect the weaker than it is, it may be polite to participate if there is some military dictatorship and persecution of civilians, such as in Rwanda, it is polite to resist, it is decent in the Spanish war. In the Spanish Civil War, it was very polite to oppose the fascist dictatorship, it was polite to participate in the October Revolution, like Alexa Dundic, and to wage certain fights in revolutionary fights, in war conflicts. I'm afraid we're wrong here. Here we start from the fact that the participants in the conflict are all poachers, that their hands are bloody to their elbows, that they cut their heads off, that they kill civilians, that they commit crimes. It's something else entirely. The perpetrators of such crimes respond to international courts and courts of the countries in which these crimes are committed, if possible and as soon as possible. Being a volunteer in some conflict doesn't mean committing the most serious crime. You can participate in the war in a decent way. For example, you can be a doctor and a nurse, a member of some military force, save the lives of soldiers and civilians, thereby not committing any crime, not even taking a gun, and in a human way participating in this conflict, and in such cases you can be a chef in some war unit. So in such situations our citizen, for foreign citizens, in this first position the law does not apply, can be punished for six months. If you were a cook in an armed conflict, in an armed formation in a foreign country, you can get six months on the proposal of the promoter. The amendment promoter who has no experience with wars and armies has suggested that it be 10 years. Imagine someone who, in a humane way, wants, in a decent way, to reduce the suffering of the civilian population participating in some civil conflict, wanting to defend human rights for people to participate in this way. I think it's six months and too much for a violation like that, if it's a violation, but that's how you give someone 10 years in prison for that kind of participation, I think it's too much. I appreciate the intention of fellow farmers to have those fiercest villains cut their heads off, who commit incredible crimes and who engage from our territory be condemned. I was saying that this law has many shortcomings. He doesn't even refer to those who don't have our citizenship. If an apatride leaves these territories and participates in an armed conflict outside, he won't answer. If someone who doesn't have our citizenship from this territory goes into that conflict, they won't answer. Only a citizen of RS will answer, even one who was a cook, a nurse, a doctor, who saved lives or participated in the diet of a particular military unit. I think it's also a lot of six months, and for ten years it would only be very drastic and I don't believe that the proposer of this law, or Mr Meho Omerovic, will accept this amendment. As far as I'm concerned, it's not my idea to vote for this kind of amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10148	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I believe that during the speech of Mr. Risticevic, an injured member of 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which, honourable presidents, paragraph 1, states that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Risticevic has violated this dignity, Mr. President, by my understanding, in two ways. First, he said that some MPs do not have the right to submit amendments to draft laws sent to the Assembly by MPs or by the government. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly under the Law on the National Assembly, according to our Rules of Procedure here, every MP has the right to submit an amendment to some draft law. I think it was necessary to warn Mr Risticevic that during his speech he held the dignity of the National Assembly. Plus, another thing, Mr. Risticevic here said that he would not be surprised if some MPs were, and since Mr. Zivkovic had previously spoken of our amendment, he also suggested a shooting sentence for certain violations, I believe that this, in particular, Mr. Risticevic had violated the dignity of the National Assembly. Dear President, please, if you have not responded during Mr. Risticevic's speech to tell him now that Mr. Risticevic should ask the defence minister – why Mr. Zivkovic did not serve the army. It is located in its archives and plus, honourable presidents, as every MP has the right to submit the amendment also I believe that Mr Risticevic has the right to become an impression this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10150	Thank you. I'll answer you. I'm not like the Chairman injure Article 107. I'd have reacted if I'd heard the name and name of the MP. There are 250 of us, of which two-thirds of the men, and now women, serve a military term, if they want to, so I could not recognize exactly who Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic meant. Because "some," it's wide, and after that, MP Zivkovic said "some" and I didn't want to react either way. They know best who they mean. For the sake of truth, I ask MP Risticevic to allow all MPs to make amendments, and I think he meant nothing by purpose, but coloquial. Indeed, on my part, it was not my intention to hurt the Rules of Procedure. But if you do, we'll vote? Do you want us to put a vote in breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) I ask the service to put a vote in breach of the Rules of Procedure. I explain to Ambassador Borislav Stefanovic that he was pointing his hand at Marijan Risticevic when I asked for a vote. I know exactly what I asked. The word is Meko Omerović, representative of the motionary. Otherwise, MPs are proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10151	I thank you, Your Honor. Since we are at the very end, as this is the last amendment to the proposed addition of the Criminal Code, I would like to thank all the honourable colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, for their contribution and the desire to improve the proposed text of the amendment. Unfortunately, we couldn't accept any of the amendments. I thank you for voting in favour of the proposed text of the law in a few minutes, not "some" but all MPs. I especially thank my colleagues Pavić and Zivkovic, with only one fence and a reply from his colleague, Zivkovic. Comrade Zivkovic, your amendment has not been rejected because you belong to the opposition political party. It is simply not true, because we have rejected the amendment of colleagues Marijan Rističević and which, you will agree, is a very prominent part of the ruling coalition. Therefore, I thank all the MPs, because this law that we are about to pass in a few minutes is really a necessary law for the state of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10152	The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, the SNS will not accept the amendment that we received from the esteemed MPs of Mr Zoran Zivkovic and Mr Vladimir Pavicevic because it is deviating from the very spirit of the law that we have proposed. The wish of 199 MPs who proposed this law was to prevent a clear message from showing to the world that we are a country that wants to lead a very peaceful policy and a preventive message to all possible participants. We even called from this pay phone those who are perpetrators of this act, that is, in eight days' time when it is incorporated into the Criminal Code, they return from the battlefield, no matter what motive, whatever reason, what led them, ideology, the desire to fight, the desire to prove, the money and whatever else. However, it cannot be said that we had a desire as a state to introduce a system of talons, i.e. revenge against these perpetrators, especially as it is mainly about young people and the time of revenge of the "tooth for teeth" is far behind us. I think this amendment has this idea right now, and I was just happy to hear that these two MPs gave this amendment, that is, when they said they were going to vote for the adoption of this law, and I thought it really showed good faith and understanding that we are one serious and normal state. You know, like in that movie -- I don't want one card, I want five, just at least five tickets, that's what this amendment looks like. Also, in a professional sense, he's completely illogical. It turns out that the basic part of the crime, i.e. for the basic act, is scheduled to be fined from six months to five years under the Bill's proposal, for a qualified form, if executed in a group, a sentence of one year to eight years is provided for, and for organisers, financiers and those who offer and organise them, take them there, so they work professionally, they are scheduled for two to 10 years. It's a range of penalties that are immeasurable to our criminal legislation, something that has paralleled other criminal acts, and imagine how much punishment would be possible for the subsidies you take for the vineyard, and you still don't have the vineyard. Imagine if we were to predict some punishment here now, as someone here mentioned, mortal. Of course she was suspended a long time ago. The shortest of all of this, I would say that it is possible, according to this amendment and what is intended to be imposed, for both the basic act and the qualified act, when it is carried out in the group, for the punishment to be equal. It is intended to amend the basic act for two to ten years, and for a qualified act, i.e. if carried out in a group of three to 10 years. There are two things here, when the lower limit is three years, usually the upper one is 12 years. This shows only one basic, or notorious ignorance. If you have two penalties in that range, then it is possible for the court to impose the same penalties for, I would say, two different acts, or with a much more severe consequence. That is why the SNS parliamentary group and for many other reasons will not vote in favour of these amendments, and of course, we will vote in favour of the law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10154	The word is by the MP of the people, Dr Nebojsa Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10155	I am carefully reading all the amendments of distinguished colleagues, and I am carefully collecting neither during the arguments they give on these amendments nor so far can I conclude that almost all the amendments proposed by the distinguished colleagues, and therefore logically conclude that this could be the case with this amendment, there is something fundamental missing, and that is the voice "yes" and that is not whose voice "yes", but the already respected colleagues of the promoters. That is why I call on distinguished colleagues to show greater responsibility and perseverance and, most importantly, parliamentary honesty to me. I will read to you the definition of Parliament's congratulation: "If the MP – the amendment that he has proposed makes sense, in general or in particular, he is obliged to vote on the day. “ I hope that this amendment will be an opportunity to finally show this parliamentary honesty, and I will seriously consider the possibility of voting for this amendment. Anyway, that would be the impression of the week, and maybe the moon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10156	Thank you. There's plenty of time till the end of the week. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10157	This is good, dear colleagues, exactly what we were talking about. The Honorable Doctor is appealing to vote for this amendment and you can see it has nothing to do with the parties. If any solution is good, Your Honor, I'm using the time of my authorised representative, then it should be accepted. It makes sense, our criminal policy is such that the most frequently applied minimum sentences or paroles, the range from minimum to maximum penalty in the Criminal Code, as you know, our courts are mostly applied in a way that for various reasons people are released early on, is a young boy, doing thousands of pushups and wrinkles, will be improved. Even if he's a member of the ruling party, that's better. Even if it falls under that amnesty, even better. Young people who need to be resociated, to return to society, to improve, which is the nature of every criminal sanction in democratic societies, should have a chance to do so, but not by leaving the courts again, a thousand times, the possibility of going to the lowest possible scale and moving towards the lowest degree of decision. They, my people, can't wait for an excuse to give the least possible punishment. Don't mind, don't cause a problem, don't wave, don't make a fuss now that we're doing so well in reform. Now that's the point, that's what we need with this amendment to avoid. I think the amendment is good because it defines things, makes sense of criminal policy, raises a scale for certain crimes that are in their spirit and nature different from other crimes. It's no one's tampering. It's about organising, implementing and carrying out acts of armed acts and terrorism, if you will. So that's a different thing, and we think the lower range of mandatory criminal sanctions must be lifted. It is not true that it is linear, as one colleague here said, but the promoter, Mr. Pavicevic, has set things in step, urban. So it's not the same for every crime that's been listed here for 10 years. It's just for a certain point, it seems to me under the letter B mentioned in the proposal, so look at the text. I repeat again, not people today, in 2014, at a time of global war against terrorism, which exists, an Islamic state, at a time when people in Iraq are setting up a car bomb and suicide bombers, etc., to put in the same basket, please, chefs, intendents and I don't know what we've heard here. The next thing we know, we've asked the promoter nicely -- be more specific about the prosecutors who'll have to do just that, check out how he'll know who he was, who was making lunch for the terrorists, who planted the bomb. That's gonna be hard to tell. And heroes and human giants, like Alexa Dundic, and heroes from the Spanish Civil War can never, I repeat, be in the same basket with the people this law applies to. But since we can't measure and since we've suggested that you specify what a fair war is, what a fair conflict is, no one can, especially 2014, but I'm glad that the Proposer agrees at least that it is a visible lack of this proposal to supplement the law. If that's what we agree on, then let's not get in the way of it, as the children say, the concepts and that we put things in an inappropriate plane here. Please don't. If someone is fighting Fascism and, as we jointly found yesterday, certain tyrants, dictators, people who shoot at their people, who use an army that is choking civil rights and freedoms, it's not the same as what the Islamic state is doing, please. So, since we don't have that cantar and we can't measure it, let's at least try to legally raise the minimum for certain crimes, so we don't have a situation again that the prosecutor, unequipped, without adequate knowledge, say in the court of Pazar, no legal aid, no slow, asks for information, doesn't get, takes months, years. Then who's to blame, Mr. Omerovic? How are we going to get these people to their natural habitat and to the natural end of its application? The natural end is the man who committed the crime in support of the sentence. It's a natural end. This amendment clearly raises this for the most serious crime against peace, against civilization, against humanity, against true values. But since they're legal standards, no one can tell them, and especially the one who can't propose. At least then let's try the criminal policy in this country, finally move those harmonicas that our courts keep making. If there's a legal minimum, more conditional ground, like God, just don't make me resent anyone. No one will change that except for the Serbian Parliament. We need to understand that. There's no case law that'll establish that. She has just shown a court practice that there is no judicial reform. So I think this is, say, one segment, one piece of mosaic, as the Assembly has recently taken a lot of small steps, which in a large picture may not be so significant, but in the domain of our activities and powers certainly are. This is one of those steps. Here, why don't you accept this amendment? In particular, I found it interesting to say that Pavicevic's proposal falls short of the spirit of the law. I don't know how it goes with the spirit of the law, dear colleague, please. Here, somebody explain it to me. What is the spirit of the law, if it isn't to punish these people, to prevent them from going to those battlefields? How is this against the spirit of the law, if one who organizes them prepares them and sends them there gets more punishment than the promoter predicted? Why is it against the spirit of the law? You know, you're center right. If you're the center on the right, I'm surprised you're so liberal and even left-handed about the mild penalties and the chances of resociation. That's what it says about your ideological wandering. That doesn't bother me. That's all you have to explain to your voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10158	Thank you. The word is by amendment Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10159	Thank you, Madam President. I know that Mr. Stefanovic is an exhibit of the former regime and I know that some of the habits of the past, where you grew up, which you're bored with, that these habits are difficult for a man to get used to. One sentence that burned my ears, and it was said just now, that's just the relapse of the past. He says – if he is a member of the ruling party, then, of course, the laws will not apply to him and these penalties will not apply, but will be treated differently. I believe it's from an ideology that's so unchangeable, this former regime, and a habit that's been seen so many times by 2012 in a judiciary that's been reorganized and reformed only for those who've been doing this reform and only for those judges who, of course, have won that position by the dictation from Krusna Street. The Serbian Progressive Party since its founding, and since 2012 when we have been participating, and now we run the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has a clear commitment to crime and corruption. Zero tolerance and there is no protection in this fight against crime and corruption. We were not declaring our policy, nor did we use laws and justice to account for ourselves internally, nor did we keep people in custody for months and years, nor did we use the judiciary for accounting in business, so who would first come to which company in privatisation to come or to a better quality land. It would be good if someone who wants to participate and who's a competitor were to end up in custody. Of course it couldn't have done that without the amine and the consent of the former regime. What the Serbian Progressive Party did when they honored us that we would not enter this fight consistently, we came from the strongest, the most powerful, those who were and whose names were whispered in Serbia. That's when they told us we wouldn't hit our coalition partners because the government is more important to us, they're more important chaires than fighting crime and corruption. At that time, some people who did things incorrectly in Galennica or other companies were processed. Then we were honored not to oppose ours, not to oppose those who have a membership card from the Serbian Progressive Party. I will also remind you and the public that in a difficult session for the Serbian Progressive Party in January or February of this year, immunity was lifted from the Serbian Progressive Party MP for whom the prosecution had valid evidence and launched an investigation. So much for that sentence, which is honored by the Serbian Progressive Party, that it is enough for you to have the ruling party's membership card and that both the prosecution and the judiciary and anyone to work in a different way. I believe that's what my colleague Stefanovic was talking about in the past. I believe he spoke of the time when he and his party led this country, led the judiciary and that in this way, and applied, and worked, and that his speech refers to 2012, because Serbian citizens recognise that sentence and tie it to the period of the former regime and tie it to the period until 2012. As far as this law and the proposed amendment itself are concerned, we can also talk about severe penalties, we can talk about greater penalties, but what is the essence of this law is not just repressive measures, it's not just punishment. When someone goes and instead of knowledge, instead of experience, instead of touristic, instead of work, instead of education, education, education, instead of building bridges, friendships, instead of bringing investments, when they go somewhere in a world destination and they're taking up arms and by bringing themselves and the country they come from, then it's too late. That man is lost, not only is his life threatened, but he is lost to our society. I would also like to call on Mrs. Ćorovic's speech, which was extremely honest and well-intentioned that we of this kind of law want to preserve these people. Not only to preserve their lives, but to preserve them in this country. When they leave, when the late weapons, in my humble opinion, I don't think these people are functional anymore, that these people can be just the focus and cause of the problems that Mr. Dracun was talking about, that they can be just the core and the germs of such things that they would sow in these places. Therefore, I think that this law is as it is proposed and will receive the support of the Serbian Progressive Party not only by signing but also by voting, the opportunity to preserve people, the opportunity to prevent this law from taking part in war events in any space. To preserve the lives of these people, to keep them within the borders of our country, so that they become functional members of our community. Of course not one law is enough. Of course, there is much in the economy, in prosperity, in the European future of our country. Why would someone from a well-organized, prosperous, good country, a country where every single person will be able to finish school, where they will be able to get a job, where they will be able to live and work, to create a family, why someone would go out of that country risking their lives. The Serbian Progressive Party is committed to peace. It is dedicated to tolerance, it is committed to building the best relations in the region, not just in the region, with all the countries in the world. I think every normal and decent man in our country is in conflict and wars over his head. I don't think people even want to remember those horrible things that happened in these places. I wish some other countries had laws like this in the 1990s. I wish some other citizens, some other states hadn't come to places and part of Serbia's territory, to part of Kosovo and Metohija, both in Bosnia and Croatia. How many fewer victims would there be? How many lives saved? How many saved heads would there be? This is one law that accompanys Serbia to one of the largest coalitions of normal, decent, organised states that do not want to participate and that their citizens do not participate in beastly conflicts at any destination. Could this law have been better or worse, or different? He could, of course, but a law like this is enough to prevent any of our citizens from going to Syria or Iraq or Ukraine or anywhere. I don't share people in Serbia with beards and beards. I share only those who are willing to break the law, take the gun in their hands and fight anywhere or help anything like that and those decent and normal who want to build their own country and best relations. I think that in front of the National Assembly, in front of the Government, there are many steps ahead of us as a society to make our society a normal, decent state, part of a European family where young people, where people will even think about work, work, love, family formation, and not think about whether for money or for some ideology any kind of thing will go and fight and risk their lives and risk their country's reputation by fighting and making things that are not in accordance with the law. That is why in the voting day, I believe in the coming minutes, the Serbian Progressive Party will support and vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10160	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10161	Right, it's hard for a man to give up old habits from old age, says my fellow majority leader. I think it's quite clear that you're saying it from personal experience. Also, I think it's quite clear that when you say it's not just repressive measures at the core of this law that you're showing that you don't understand at all what the subject of today's session is. What are these, Mr. Babic, other measures at the heart of this law, if they are not repressive, since we are talking about amending the Criminal Code, let me inform you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10162	Mr Stefanovic, please do not speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10163	Okay, I'm sorry. What's also very interesting, I don't want to get into the story of it, because the other thing you don't know about is that you're talking about the past, but I'm going to ask you, if what you said about your justice, about efficiency, about this uncompromising and unscrupulous fight against all kinds of organised crime and corruption, tell us here today -- how many people have been convicted of the criminal act of corruption since you've been in power? Zero. Will you apply this to Mr Canet Subotic and Bogoljub Karic, who is also waiting for justice? Since they are also waiting for justice, Mr. Granny, will they welcome that justice you're talking about? You want to free 300 million of some of the "Universal Bank" money that Krusik keeps trapped, they can't work, they can't pay. Since yesterday, the day before yesterday, you gave a lecture on Cruise, you absolutely escaped a collision with the truth at all times. Absolutely. Why do you say things like this when you know they're hard to come back to? What is the efficiency of the judiciary?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10164	Your time is up. Thank you. It's been three minutes and five seconds. Thank you. The word has Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10165	Madam President, there is no Serbian Progressive Party Justice. There is no judiciary of any party. In Serbia, there is the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia as an independent branch of government. Another relapse of the past we could see from that grill and regret for the Benefits of the Government in every speech of the previous speaker. Unfortunately for all those things that the government only carries in one segment. What I would like to remind Mr Stefanovic, what I would like to remind every MP, is that the judiciary is an independent branch of government in which no politician and no one is allowed to participate, nor can order, nor to make judgments. That's how it's been since 2012, and it wasn't until 2012. One hundred fifty indictments were filed and confirmed in the Special Court for Organized Crime, and the report was brought to this National Assembly by the Prime Minister, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, on similar charges by Mr Stefanovic. We haven't had a strategy in the fight against corruption since 2010, when we were in this fight against crime and corruption. We didn't have a strategy. Such laziness of the congregation's majority in 2010, 2011. They didn't care about fighting corruption, they didn't bring strategy, let alone legal acts. What's the explanation for that? I know a colleague will say -- now it's noise, now it's anger, but there's no evidence of that. This government of the Republic of Serbia is committed to fighting crime and corruption. That's what reports show where we were at 87th place in the fight against crime and corruption by 2012, now 72nd place...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10166	Thank you. Replication time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10167	... And we move on to those countries that are arranged to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10168	Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica, Article 104) Replica? I wrote -- for the following charges, Borislav Stefanovic. Explain to me what is offensive, according to Article 104. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: It does not have to be offensive, read. It says – even though something has been interpreted. ) It must, according to Article 104, which you have brought to the Rules of Procedure, be offensive. It can't be commendable, I'm afraid. "For the following charges, Borislav Stefanovic," there is not even an interpretation. I apologize, I cannot give you my word and this will turn into a debate about something completely different, not an amendment to Article 1 submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I will therefore give my word to MPs who want to talk about the amendment to Article 1 of these two MPs. I think most MPs agree with that. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment to Article 1 submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, please apply strictly to the amendment. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, I think it waits about an hour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10169	Thank you, Your Honor. I simply have to comment, it's easy to bring such an amendment by someone, or to be tolerated by someone who, let's say, affirmed the action of Sabbe where people didn't even have the right to an attorney. But why am I saying this? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: What does this have to do with the amendment? They have no basis to speak. Be patient. About the amendment itself...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10170	I ask Borislav Stefanovic not to yell, not to throw, not to try to lead the session. There will be an opportunity, there will be a choice, you will hold a session. I'm sorry, I'm going to take a five-minute break so the MPs who intend to get, yell, hold a session instead of the president or the chairman will figure out what's going on at the session today. It doesn't have to be five minutes, a minute, two minutes, but really go back to a topic that's extremely important for both Serbia and the countries of the region, and that's why we suggested this... If you stay in the O.R., we don't have to take five minutes, this is a break just so we don't throw each other away. We're allowing an MP, but please talk about the amendment, don't spread the themes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10171	Thank you. About the amendment itself, since we've heard various discussions, this is where the grandmothers and frogs mix. Why? Because the esteemed predecessor, whom I truly respect as someone on the other side who I can always say nice things to, talked about terrorism. The crime of terrorism has already been incriminated in our criminal law, so if someone were to recruit people for ISIS, or Syria, he would fall under this crime of terrorism. This is where we introduce a new crime involving participation in wars in foreign states. You know, it's easy being someone with double arches. If someone were to punish these young people, for example, at the age of 18 or 19, so strictly, and let us say that Koca Popovic or, say, Blagoje Parovic were heroes, which we can certainly appreciate, they may have fought for a noble idea, not perhaps, but surely in the Spanish civil war, but under the laws of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, they would be terrorists, then you would condemn them fiercely because you are looking for this. For example, today's President, Uruguay Jose Muhiku, he was a dumb-ass. You'd strongly condemn him based on what you're looking for today. (Borislav Stefanov, from the place: He is in his country. Let's not just have double arches, let's say when we're talking about Ukraine now. Someone will say – I have gone out of noble ideas to fight Fascism, because there the right sector affirms Stephen Bander and says – I went to fight Fascism. We want to prevent it, that people generally go to war in other countries, but let's not be hypocritical sometimes, so we look at something mildly, and let's say somewhere, there were heroes here, there were heroes. It's all, of course, very debateable through history, and that's why I can't, and here I'm going to give you some kind of personal recognition, each of us has done a lot of things in our youth. I was, personally, maybe even part of it, and here's what you're calling these hooligan cheerleading groups today. Yeah, I did it in 18 of my own, 19 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10172	Ambassador, please speak to me with gestures and words.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10173	Not today, but today I'm ashamed of some things I did when I was 18 or 19.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10174	Please don't go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10175	It's about the amendment and the punishment itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10176	Yeah, but don't put yourself in those contexts.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10177	Let's just say, I was lucky that maybe that's when the police wouldn't sanction me, or if I didn't get caught, maybe I could get three or five years, would I be lost to this company? Maybe I would, but let's just say today when I'm 35, I'm ashamed of some of the things I did back then. How come today someone who is 18, strayed into a terrorist group or anywhere, to be punished by five years in prison? You have to take care of it anyway, because we can really have big problems, that we lose entire generations and generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10178	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10179	Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10180	Would you like to say the word after the amendment, that's what you'd like to tell me first?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10181	First I ask for the word first in the Rules of Procedure for the speech of MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10182	I'll give it to you because I have to, but I don't know who hurt the Rules of Procedure when a man was talking about his experiences. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I really intend to contribute to sticking to the agenda here and not promoting some bad things. I think it was necessary not only to warn on the basis of a member of the 106th Mr. Djukanovic now, but to give him a warning measure, because Mr. Djukanovic was a MP in this Assembly, he told us in his speech that he was in youth days, I don't know if you heard it, was part of the hooligan groups. He is a National MP here, and I understand that Mr Djukanovic is now promoting something that should not be promoted in the National Assembly, but that every man, especially if he is a MP, should be ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10184	On the contrary. I'll give you an exact stenogram and you'll see that you're mistaken.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10185	Okay, but I think we should have intervened more sharply.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10186	He spoke quite the opposite. Ambassador Djukanovic, you have no right to replicate the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you know that. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic reported on the amendment, waiting 60 minutes at my discretion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, Mrs Gojkovic, I would just like to remind you once again here that we have been discussing the amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Law, which we put forward jointly on this bill by Mr. Zoran Zivkovic and I. Here I offer three arguments, respected presidents of the National Assembly on the basis of which I believe Mr. Omerovic should change his position, accept our argument for this amendment and that the content of our amendment becomes part of the bill, and since Mr. Omerovic is convinced that this bill will be passed, means part of the law. Dear President, there are three things I offer as an additional argument. First, Mr. Omerovic, I think, has already made one mistake in the procedure, in the process of proposing this law. He consulted with all MPs who are part of the ruling coalition, and, for example, respected presidents, did not come to consult with Mr Zivkovic and me to ask us for an opinion for members of the bill that he represents here. If Mr. Omerovic had come to the consultations with the two of us, we might not be able to discuss this amendment today. Perhaps, Honorable President, Mr. Omerovic and we would agree then that this should be part of the bill that he is defending here. I think that was the first mistake. I don't think Mr. Omerovic should make another mistake today, not accept our amendment. The second thing, Honored President Gojkovic, is that we have explained in our amendment that we believe that for this violation which Mr. Omerovic defends today, this type of offence requires a more severe criminal policy. We have an explanation for that. To remind you, Mr. Omerovic defended the position of all promoters, all MPs. Article 1 says -- a Serbian citizen who participates in a war or armed conflict in a foreign country as a member of military or paramilitary forms of the party in conflict, and is not a citizen of that foreign state, as well as a member of an official mission of an international organisation whose Serbia is a member, will be sentenced by imprisonment from six months to five years. We believe that our argument of a stricter criminal policy implies changing this position in Article 1 that is changing, we believe that the intended sentence should be two years to ten years. Listening to Mr. Omerovic earlier, listening to Mr. Petrovic from the advanced party, Mr. Babic from the advanced party, Mr. Stefanovic, Mr. Zivkovic, when he explained the amendment, I concluded that all of them are saying that what we have proposed is acceptable. Here, and Mr. Petrovic of the SNS. I hope that Mr Babic, for example, will, during this debate and voting day, listen a little bit to some different visions of the MPs from his group, to accept this possibility of a different, better interpretation, respected president. We also felt that the words “one to eight years ” should be replaced by“ three to ten years. ” So, we follow one principle and, please, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, Mr. Omerovic, that perhaps, since he has not consulted us on the content of this amendment, he is consulting the esteemed professor of Law who sits near him, to see if the teacher appreciates the logic and reasoning we offer for this amendment or professor also believes that Mr. Omerovic should not accept our amendment. We would be very interested to hear the opinion of one person who can give here and say one expert court. Dear President, as part of the second argument, I would like to remind you that in the new Article 386b of the position of 1st word: "two" should be replaced by "five years", all in the spirit of a stricter criminal policy for which we have clearly agreed here that it is difficult but we cannot go with a mild penalty for the most severe or severe violations, respected presidents of the National Assembly. The third argument to Mr. Omerovic, the esteemed president, was not remembered by us. The fact that Mr. Omerovic has not scheduled consultations for us will not prevent us from inviting Mr. Omerovic and Mr. Babic and you, Mrs. Gojkovic, to visit all of Olje Bećkovic on Sunday at 21.00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10188	I knew in the last second you'd be out of the picture. Let me just say it's not a crime, it's a crime. That's why the punishments are like that. The word is proposed by Meho Omerović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10189	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe I share an impression with all the MPs that it is always a pleasure to listen to distinguished Professor Pavicevic. He did it this time. My ears ring out how many times he mentioned my last name. Thank you, Mr Pavicevic, for appreciating the contribution of the SDPS, whose member I am, as well as the ruling coalitions and the 199 MPs who have stepped behind this proposal with their signatures. Since you haven't memorized it, you yourself have said, and I am sinful, the next time, and that will be very soon and soon, when we propose some new amendments or additions to the law, be sure, to you and colleagues, I will offer Zivkovic to sign that bill. At the very end, since we need to adopt this necessary law that the Serbian state has long waited for, I want to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate, for all those who realize that this is a significant and important step by introducing these two new criminal acts towards the establishment of a legal order in which it will be prohibited and in which a criminal act will take part in wartimes, i.e. to participate in war on any of the sides that have been fought in any foreign country, especially after which the organisation, recruitment and all that we have provided for these laws will be prohibited. I wouldn't delay, and I wouldn't keep your attention any longer. Once again, thank you all. I call on you in a few minutes, when the President of the Assembly sets a moment for the vote, all of you to support this law with your votes. It will be excellent confirmation and fantastic, I would say, a message to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the region and the world that the lights that will be lit after this vote will be identical colors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-10-0.u10190	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I determine Friday, October 10, 2014, starting at 11.50 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. We have a five-minute break to get a synopsis due to injuries to the Rules of Procedures that were involved and to give you a synopsis to vote on. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 152 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote on the Criminal Code Supplement Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 169 against – no one, with abstentions, voted five out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – five, abstentions – there is no, 164 of the total of 175 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 165 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, abstention – there is no, 173 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one, with abstention – no, 162 of the total of 175 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill to the vote on a law supplementing the criminal code in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, no one, with abstentions, voted three out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes the draft law supplementing the Criminal Code. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require without the right to explain that the National Assembly is to declare itself in the day of voting. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 10 October 2014, pointed to a violation of article 107 at 11.00. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 155 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Thank you.
